know-what, you’ve admitted it!” 

Harry took a deep, steadying breath. His head was 
beginning to ache again. He wanted more than 
anything to get out of the kitchen, away from the 
Dursleys. 

“I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the 
dementors,” he said, forcing himself to remain calm. 
“It’s the only thing that works against them.” 

“But what were dementoids doing in Little Whinging?” 
said Uncle Vernon in tones of outrage. 

“Couldn’t tell you,” said Harry wearily. “No idea.” 

His head was pounding in the glare of the strip 
lighting now. His anger was ebbing away. He felt 
drained, exhausted. The Dursleys were all staring at 
him. 

“It’s you,” said Uncle Vernon forcefully. “It’s got 
something to do with you, boy, I know it. Why else 

Page | 46 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




would they turn up here? Why else would they be 
down that alleyway? You’ve got to be the only — the 
only — ” Evidently he couldn’t bring himself to say the 
word “wizard.” “The only you-know-what for miles.” 

“I don’t know why they were here...” 

But at these words of Uncle Vernon’s, Harry’s 
exhausted brain ground back into action. Why had 
the dementors come to Little Whinging? How could it 
be coincidence that they had arrived in the alleyway 
where Harry was? Had they been sent? Had the 
Ministry of Magic lost control of the dementors, had 
they deserted Azkaban and joined Voldemort, as 
Dumbledore had predicted they would? 

“These demembers guard some weirdos’ prison?” said 
Uncle Vernon, lumbering in the wake of Harry’s train 
of thought. 

“Yes,” said Harry. 

If only his head would stop hurting, if only he could 
just leave the kitchen and get to his dark bedroom 
and think... 

“Oho! They were coming to arrest you!” said Uncle 
Vernon, with the triumphant air of a man reaching an 
unassailable conclusion. “That’s it, isn’t it, boy? 

You’re on the run from the law!” 

“Of course I’m not,” said Harry, shaking his head as 
though to scare off a fly, his mind racing now. 

“Then why — ?” 

“He must have sent them,” said Harry quietly, more to 
himself than to Uncle Vernon. 



Page | 47 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“What’s that? Who must have sent them?” 

“Lord Voldemort,” said Harry. 

He registered dimly how strange it was that the 
Dursleys, who flinched, winced, and squawked if they 
heard words like “wizard,” “magic,” or “wand,” could 
hear the name of the most evil wizard of all time 
without the slightest tremor. 

“Lord — hang on,” said Uncle Vernon, his face 
screwed up, a look of dawning comprehension in his 
piggy eyes. “I’ve heard that name ... that was the one 
who ...” 

“Murdered my parents, yes,” Harry said. 

“But he’s gone,” said Uncle Vernon impatiently, 
without the slightest sign that the murder of Harry’s 
parents might be a painful topic to anybody. “That 
giant bloke said so. He’s gone.” 

“He’s back,” said Harry heavily. 

It felt very strange to be standing here in Aunt 
Petunia’s surgically clean kitchen, beside the top-of- 
the-range fridge and the wide-screen television, and 
talking calmly of Lord Voldemort to Uncle Vernon. 

The arrival of the dementors in Little Whinging 
seemed to have caused a breach in the great, invisible 
wall that divided the relentlessly non-magical world of 
Privet Drive and the world beyond. Harry’s two lives 
had somehow become fused and everything had been 
turned upside down: The Dursleys were asking for 
details about the magical world and Mrs. Figg knew 
Albus Dumbledore; dementors were soaring around 
Little Whinging and he might never go back to 
Hogwarts. Harry’s head throbbed more painfully. 



Page | 48 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Back?” whispered Aunt Petunia. 

She was looking at Harry as she had never looked at 
him before. And all of a sudden, for the very first time 
in his life, Harry fully appreciated that Aunt Petunia 
was his mother’s sister. He could not have said why 
this hit him so very powerfully at this moment. All he 
knew was that he was not the only person in the 
room who had an inkling of what Lord Voldemort 
being back might mean. Aunt Petunia had never in 
her life looked at him like that before. Her large, pale 
eyes (so unlike her sister’s) were not narrowed in 
dislike or anger: They were wide and fearful. The 
furious pretense that Aunt Petunia had maintained 
all Harry’s life — that there was no magic and no 
world other than the world she inhabited with Uncle 
Vernon — seemed to have fallen away. 

“Yes,” Harry said, talking directly to Aunt Petunia 
now. “He came back a month ago. I saw him.” 

Her hands found Dudley’s massive leather-clad 
shoulders and clutched them. 

“Hang on,” said Uncle Vernon, looking from his wife 
to Harry and back again, apparently dazed and 
confused by the unprecedented understanding that 
seemed to have sprung up between them. “Hang on. 
This Lord Voldything’s back, you say.” 

“Yes.” 

“The one who murdered your parents.” 

“Yes.” 

“And now he’s sending dismembers after you?” 

“Looks like it,” said Harry. 

Page | 49 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“I see,” said Uncle Vernon, looking from his white- 
faced wife to Harry and hitching up his trousers. He 
seemed to be swelling, his great purple face stretching 
before Harry’s eyes. “Well, that settles it,” he said, his 
shirt front straining as he inflated himself, “you can 
get out of this house, boy\” 

“What?” said Harry. 

“You heard me — OUT!” Uncle Vernon bellowed, and 
even Aunt Petunia and Dudley jumped. “OUT! OUT! I 
should’ve done it years ago! Owls treating the place 
like a rest home, puddings exploding, half the lounge 
destroyed, Dudley’s tail, Marge bobbing around on 
the ceiling, and that flying Ford Anglia — OUT! OUT! 
You’ve had it! You’re history! You’re not staying here if 
some loony’s after you, you’re not endangering my 
wife and son, you’re not bringing trouble down on us, 
if you’re going the same way as your useless parents, 
I’ve had it! OUT!” 

Harry stood rooted to the spot. The letters from the 
Ministry, Mr. Weasley, and Sirius were crushed in his 
left hand. Don’t leave the house again, whatever you 
do. DO NOT LEA VE YOUR A UNT AND UNCLE’S 
HOUSE. 

“You heard me!” said Uncle Vernon, bending forward 
now, so that his massive purple face came closer to 
Harry’s, so that Harry actually felt flecks of spit hit 
his face. “Get going! You were all keen to leave half an 
hour ago! I’m right behind you! Get out and never 
darken our doorstep again! Why we ever kept you in 
the first place I don’t know. Marge was right, it should 
have been the orphanage, we were too damn soft for 
our own good, thought we could squash it out of you, 
thought we could turn you normal, but you’ve been 
rotten from the beginning, and I’ve had enough — 
OWLS!” 

Page | 50 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




The fifth owl zoomed down the chimney so fast it 
actually hit the floor before zooming into the air again 
with a loud screech. Harry raised his hand to seize 
the letter, which was in a scarlet envelope, but it 
soared straight over his head, flying directly at Aunt 
Petunia, who let out a scream and ducked, her arms 
over her face. The owl dropped the red envelope on 
her head, turned, and flew straight up the chimney 
again. 

Harry darted forward to pick up the letter, but Aunt 
Petunia beat him to it. 

“You can open it if you like,” said Harry, “but I’ll hear 
what it says anyway. That’s a Howler.” 

“Let go of it, Petunia!” roared Uncle Vernon. “Don’t 
touch it, it could be dangerous!” 

“It’s addressed to me,” said Aunt Petunia in a shaking 
voice. “It’s addressed to me, Vernon, look! Mrs. 

Petunia Dursley, The Kitchen, Number Four, Privet 
Drive — ” 

She caught her breath, horrified. The red envelope 
had begun to smoke. 

“Open it!” Harry urged her. “Get it over with! It’ll 
happen anyway — ” 

“No — ” 



Aunt Petunia’s hand was trembling. She looked wildly 
around the kitchen as though looking for an escape 
route, but too late — the envelope burst into flames. 
Aunt Petunia screamed and dropped it. 



Page | 51 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




An awful voice filled the kitchen, echoing in the 
confined space, issuing from the burning letter on the 
table. 



“REMEMBER MY LAST, PETUNIA.” 

Aunt Petunia looked as though she might faint. She 
sank into the chair beside Dudley, her face in her 
hands. The remains of the envelope smoldered into 
ash in the silence. 

“What is this?” Uncle Vernon said hoarsely. “What — 

I don’t — Petunia?” 

Aunt Petunia said nothing. Dudley was staring 
stupidly at his mother, his mouth hanging open. The 
silence spiraled horribly. Harry was watching his 
aunt, utterly bewildered, his head throbbing fit to 
burst. 

“Petunia, dear?” said Uncle Vernon timidly. “P- 
Petunia?” 

She raised her head. She was still trembling. She 
swallowed. 

“The boy — the boy will have to stay, Vernon,” she 
said weakly. 

“W-what?” 

“He stays,” she said. She was not looking at Harry. 

She got to her feet again. 

“He ... but Petunia ...” 

“If we throw him out, the neighbors will talk,” she 
said. She was regaining her usual brisk, snappish 
manner rapidly, though she was still very pale. 

Page | 52 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“They’ll ask awkward questions, they’ll want to know 
where he’s gone. We’ll have to keep him.” 

Uncle Vernon was deflating like an old tire. 

“But Petunia, dear — ” 

Aunt Petunia ignored him. She turned to Harry. 

“You’re to stay in your room,” she said. “You’re not to 
leave the house. Now get to bed.” 

Harry didn’t move. 

“Who was that Howler from?” 

“Don’t ask questions,” Aunt Petunia snapped. 

“Are you in touch with wizards?” 

“I told you to get to bed!” 

“What did it mean? Remember the last what?” 

“Go to bed!” 

“How come — ?” 

“YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GET TO BED!” 



Page | 53 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE ADVANCED GUARD 

“Fve just been attacked by dementors and I might be 
expelled from Hogwarts. I want to know what’s going 
on and when I’m going to get out of here. ” 

Harry copied these words onto three separate pieces 
of parchment the moment he reached the desk in his 
dark bedroom. He addressed the first to Sirius, the 
second to Ron, and the third to Hermione. His owl, 
Hedwig, was off hunting; her cage stood empty on the 
desk. Harry paced the bedroom waiting for her to 
come back, his head pounding, his brain too busy for 
sleep even though his eyes stung and itched with 
tiredness. His back ached from carrying Dudley 
home, and the two lumps on his head where the 
window and Dudley had hit him were throbbing 
painfully. 

Up and down he paced, consumed with anger and 
frustration, grinding his teeth and clenching his fists, 
casting angry looks out at the empty, star-strewn sky 
every time he passed the window. Dementors sent to 
get him, Mrs. Figg and Mundungus Fletcher tailing 
Page | 54 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



him in secret, then suspension from Hogwarts and a 
hearing at the Ministry of Magic — and still no one 
was telling him what was going on. 

And what, what, had that Howler been about? Whose 
voice had echoed so horribly, so menacingly, through 
the kitchen? 

Why was he still trapped here without information? 
Why was everyone treating him like some naughty 
kid? Don’t do any more magic, stay in the house... 

He kicked his school trunk as he passed it, but far 
from relieving his anger he felt worse, as he now had 
a sharp pain in his toe to deal with in addition to the 
pain in the rest of his body. 

Just as he limped past the window, Hedwig soared 
through it with a soft rustle of wings like a small 
ghost. 

“About time!” Harry snarled, as she landed lightly on 
top of her cage. “You can put that down, IVe got work 
for you!” 

Hedwig’s large round amber eyes gazed reproachfully 
at him over the dead frog clamped in her beak. 

“Come here,” said Harry, picking up the three small 
rolls of parchment and a leather thong and tying the 
scrolls to her scaly leg. “Take these straight to Sirius, 
Ron, and Hermione and don’t come back here without 
good long replies. Keep pecking them till they’ve 
written decent-length answers if you’ve got to. 
Understand?” 

Hedwig gave a muffled hooting noise, beak still full of 
frog. 



Page | 55 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Get going, then,” said Harry. 

She took off immediately. The moment she’d gone, 
Harry threw himself down onto his bed without 
undressing and stared at the dark ceiling. In addition 
to every other miserable feeling, he now felt guilty 
that he’d been irritable with Hedwig; she was the only 
friend he had at number four, Privet Drive. But he’d 
make it up to her when she came back with Sirius’s, 
Ron’s, and Hermione’s answers. 

They were bound to write back quickly; they couldn’t 
possibly ignore a dementor attack. He’d probably 
wake up tomorrow to three fat letters full of sympathy 
and plans for his immediate removal to the Burrow. 
And with that comforting idea, sleep rolled over him, 
stifling all further thought. 

•k Jc k 



But Hedwig didn’t return next morning. Harry spent 
the day in his bedroom, leaving it only to go to the 
bathroom. Three times that day Aunt Petunia shoved 
food into his room through the cat flap Uncle Vernon 
had installed three summers ago. Every time Harry 
heard her approaching he tried to question her about 
the Howler, but he might as well have interrogated 
the doorknob for all the answers he got. Otherwise 
the Dursleys kept well clear of his bedroom. Harry 
couldn’t see the point of forcing his company on 
them; another row would achieve nothing except 
perhaps making him so angry he’d perform more 
illegal magic. 

So it went on for three whole days. Harry was filled 
alternately with restless energy that made him unable 
to settle to anything, during which he paced his 
bedroom again, furious at the whole lot of them for 



Page | 56 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




leaving him to stew in this mess, and with a lethargy 
so complete that he could lie on his bed for an hour 
at a time, staring dazedly into space, aching with 
dread at the thought of the Ministry hearing. 

What if they ruled against him? What if he was 
expelled and his wand was snapped in half? What 
would he do, where would he go? He could not return 
to living full-time with the Dursleys, not now that he 
knew the other world, the one to which he really 
belonged... Was it possible that he might be able to 
move into Sirius’s house, as Sirius had suggested a 
year ago, before he had been forced to flee from the 
Ministry himself? Would he be allowed to live there 
alone, given that he was still underage? Or would the 
matter of where he went next be decided for him; had 
his breach of the International Statute of Secrecy 
been severe enough to land him in a cell in Azkaban? 
Whenever this thought occurred, Harry invariably slid 
off his bed and began pacing again. 

On the fourth night after Hedwig’s departure Harry 
was lying in one of his apathetic phases, staring at 
the ceiling, his exhausted mind quite blank, when his 
uncle entered his bedroom. Harry looked slowly 
around at him. Uncle Vernon was wearing his best 
suit and an expression of enormous smugness. 

“We’re going out,” he said. 

“Sorry?” 

“We — that is to say, your aunt, Dudley, and I — are 
going out.” 

“Fine,” said Harry dully, looking back at the ceiling. 

“You are not to leave your bedroom while we are 
away.” 

Page | 57 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Okay.” 



“You are not to touch the television, the stereo, or any 
of our possessions.” 

“Right.” 

“You are not to steal food from the fridge.” 

“Okay.” 

“I am going to lock your door.” 

“You do that.” 

Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, clearly suspicious of 
this lack of argument, then stomped out of the room 
and closed the door behind him. Harry heard the key 
turn in the lock and Uncle Vernon’s footsteps walking 
heavily down the stairs. A few minutes later he heard 
the slamming of car doors, the rumble of an engine, 
and the unmistakable sound of the car sweeping out 
of the drive. 

Harry had no particular feeling about the Dursleys 
leaving. It made no difference to him whether they 
were in the house or not. He could not even summon 
the energy to get up and turn on his bedroom light. 
The room grew steadily darker around him as he lay 
listening to the night sounds through the window he 
kept open all the time, waiting for the blessed 
moment when Hedwig returned. 

The empty house creaked around him. The pipes 
gurgled. Harry lay there in a kind of stupor, thinking 
of nothing, suspended in misery. 

And then, quite distinctly, he heard a crash in the 
kitchen below. 

Page | 58 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




He sat bolt upright, listening intently. The Dursleys 
couldn’t be back, it was much too soon, and in any 
case he hadn’t heard their car. 

There was silence for a few seconds, and then he 
heard voices. 

Burglars, he thought, sliding off the bed onto his feet 
— but a split second later it occurred to him that 
burglars would keep their voices down, and whoever 
was moving around in the kitchen was certainly not 
troubling to do so. 

He snatched up his wand from his bedside table and 
stood facing his bedroom door, listening with all his 
might. Next moment he jumped as the lock gave a 
loud click and his door swung open. 

Harry stood motionless, staring through the open 
door at the dark upstairs landing, straining his ears 
for further sounds, but none came. He hesitated for a 
moment and then moved swiftly and silently out of 
his room to the head of the stairs. 

His heart shot upward into his throat. There were 
people standing in the shadowy hall below, 
silhouetted against the streetlight glowing through 
the glass door; eight or nine of them, all, as far as he 
could see, looking up at him. 

“Lower your wand, boy, before you take someone’s eye 
out,” said a low, growling voice. 

Harry’s heart was thumping uncontrollably. He knew 
that voice, but he did not lower his wand. 

“Professor Moody?” he said uncertainly. 



Page | 59 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t know so much about ‘Professor,’ ” growled the 
voice, “never got round to much teaching, did I? Get 
down here, we want to see you properly.” 

Harry lowered his wand slightly but did not relax his 
grip on it, nor did he move. He had very good reason 
to be suspicious. He had recently spent nine months 
in what he had thought was Mad-Eye Moody’s 
company only to find out that it wasn’t Moody at all, 
but an impostor; an impostor, moreover, who had 
tried to kill Harry before being unmasked. But before 
he could make a decision about what to do next, a 
second, slightly hoarse voice floated upstairs. 

“It’s all right, Harry. We’ve come to take you away.” 

Harry’s heart leapt. He knew that voice too, though he 
hadn’t heard it for more than a year. 

“P-Professor Lupin?” he said disbelievingly. “Is that 
you?” 

“Why are we all standing in the dark?” said a third 
voice, this one completely unfamiliar, a woman’s. 
“Lumos.” 

A wand tip flared, illuminating the hall with magical 
light. Harry blinked. The people below were crowded 
around the foot of the stairs, gazing intently up at 
him, some craning their heads for a better look. 

Remus Lupin stood nearest to him. Though still quite 
young, Lupin looked tired and rather ill; he had more 
gray hair than when Harry had said good-bye to him, 
and his robes were more patched and shabbier than 
ever. Nevertheless, he was smiling broadly at Harry, 
who tried to smile back through his shock. 



Page | 60 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would,” said the 
witch who was holding her lit wand aloft. She looked 
the youngest there; she had a pale heart-shaped face, 
dark twinkling eyes, and short spiky hair that was a 
violent shade of violet. “Wotcher, Harry!” 

“Yeah, I see what you mean, Remus,” said a bald 
black wizard standing farthest back; he had a deep, 
slow voice and wore a single gold hoop in his ear. “He 
looks exactly like James.” 

“Except the eyes,” said a wheezy-voiced, silver-haired 
wizard at the back. “Lily’s eyes.” 

Mad-Eye Moody, who had long grizzled gray hair and 
a large chunk missing from his nose, was squinting 
suspiciously at Harry through his mismatched eyes. 
One of the eyes was small, dark, and beady, the other 
large, round, and electric blue — the magical eye that 
could see through walls, doors, and the back of 
Moody’s own head. 

“Are you quite sure it’s him, Lupin?” he growled. “It’d 
be a nice lookout if we bring back some Death Eater 
impersonating him. We ought to ask him something 
only the real Potter would know. Unless anyone 
brought any Veritaserum?” 

“Harry, what form does your Patronus take?” said 
Lupin. 

“A stag,” said Harry nervously. 

“That’s him, Mad-Eye,” said Lupin. 

Harry descended the stairs, very conscious of 
everybody still staring at him, stowing his wand into 
the back pocket of his jeans as he came. 



Page | 61 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t put your wand there, boy!” roared Moody. 
“What if it ignited? Better wizards than you have lost 
buttocks, you know!” 

“Who d’you know who’s lost a buttock?” the violet- 
haired woman asked Mad-Eye interestedly. 

“Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your 
back pocket!” growled Mad-Eye. “Elementary wand 
safety, nobody bothers about it anymore...” He 
stumped off toward the kitchen. “And I saw that,” he 
added irritably, as the woman rolled her eyes at the 
ceiling. 

Lupin held out his hand and shook Harry’s. 

“How are you?” he asked, looking at Harry closely. 
“F-fine ...” 

Harry could hardly believe this was real. Four weeks 
with nothing, not the tiniest hint of a plan to remove 
him from Privet Drive, and suddenly a whole bunch of 
wizards was standing matter-of-factly in the house as 
though this were a long-standing arrangement. He 
glanced at the people surrounding Lupin; they were 
still gazing avidly at him. He felt very conscious of the 
fact that he had not combed his hair for four days. 

“I’m — you’re really lucky the Dursleys are out ...” he 
mumbled. 

“Lucky, ha!” said the violet-haired woman. “It was me 
that lured them out of the way. Sent a letter by 
Muggle post telling them they’d been short-listed for 
the All-England Best-Kept Suburban Lawn 
Competition. They’re heading off to the prize-giving 
right now... Or they think they are.” 



Page | 62 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had a fleeting vision of Uncle Vernon’s face 
when he realized there was no All-England Best-Kept 
Suburban Lawn Competition. 

“We are leaving, aren’t we?” he asked. “Soon?” 

“Almost at once,” said Lupin, “we’re just waiting for 
the all-clear.” 

“Where are we going? The Burrow?” Harry asked 
hopefully. 

“Not the Burrow, no,” said Lupin, motioning Harry 
toward the kitchen; the little knot of wizards followed, 
all still eyeing Harry curiously. “Too risky. We’ve set 
up headquarters somewhere undetectable. It’s taken 
a while...” 

Mad-Eye Moody was now sitting at the kitchen table 
swigging from a hip flask, his magical eye spinning in 
all directions, taking in the Dursleys’ many labor- 
saving appliances. 

“This is Alastor Moody, Harry,” Lupin continued, 
pointing toward Moody. 

“Yeah, I know,” said Harry uncomfortably; it felt odd 
to be introduced to somebody he’d thought he’d 
known for a year. 

“And this is Nymphadora — ” 

“ Don’t call me Nymphadora, Remus,” said the young 
witch with a shudder. “It’s Tonks.” 

“ — Nymphadora Tonks, who prefers to be known by 
her surname only,” finished Lupin. 



Page | 63 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“So would you if your fool of a mother had called you 
‘Nymphadora, ’ ” muttered Tonks. 

“And this is Kingsley Shacklebolt” — he indicated the 
tall black wizard, who bowed — “Elphias Doge” — the 
wheezy-voiced wizard nodded — “Dedalus Diggle — ” 

“We’ve met before,” squeaked the excitable Diggle, 
dropping his top hat. 

“ — Emmeline Vance” — a stately looking witch in an 
emerald-green shawl inclined her head — “Sturgis 
Podmore” — a square-jawed wizard with thick, straw- 
colored hair winked — “and Hestia Jones.” A pink- 
cheeked, black-haired witch waved from next to the 
toaster. 

Harry inclined his head awkwardly at each of them as 
they were introduced. He wished they would look at 
something other than him; it was as though he had 
suddenly been ushered onstage. He also wondered 
why so many of them were there. 

“A surprising number of people volunteered to come 
and get you,” said Lupin, as though he had read 
Harry’s mind; the corners of his mouth twitched 
slightly. 

“Yeah, well, the more the better,” said Moody darkly. 
“We’re your guard, Potter.” 

“We’re just waiting for the signal to tell us it’s safe to 
set off,” said Lupin, glancing out of the kitchen 
window. “We’ve got about fifteen minutes.” 

“Very clean, aren’t they, these Muggles?” said the 
witch called Tonks, who was looking around the 
kitchen with great interest. “My dad’s Muggle-born 



Page | 64 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and he’s a right old slob. I suppose it varies, just like 
with wizards?” 

“Er — yeah,” said Harry. “Look” — he turned back to 
Lupin — “what’s going on, I haven’t heard anything 
from anyone, what’s Vol — ?” 

Several of the witches and wizards made odd hissing 
noises; Dedalus Diggle dropped his hat again, and 
Moody growled, “Shut up\” 

“What?” said Harry. 

“We’re not discussing anything here, it’s too risky,” 
said Moody, turning his normal eye on Harry; his 
magical eye remained pointing up at the ceiling. 
“Damn it,” he added angrily, putting a hand up to the 
magical eye, “it keeps sticking — ever since that scum 
wore it — ” 

And with a nasty squelching sound much like a 
plunger being pulled from a sink, he popped out his 
eye. 

“Mad-Eye, you do know that’s disgusting, don’t you?” 
said Tonks conversationally. 

“Get me a glass of water, would you, Harry?” asked 
Moody. 

Harry crossed to the dishwasher, took out a clean 
glass, and filled it with water at the sink, still watched 
eagerly by the band of wizards. Their relentless 
staring was starting to annoy him. 

“Cheers,” said Moody, when Harry handed him the 
glass. He dropped the magical eyeball into the water 
and prodded it up and down; the eye whizzed around, 



Page | 65 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




staring at them all in turn. “I want three-hundred- 
and-sixty degrees visibility on the return journey.” 

“How’re we getting — wherever we’re going?” Harry 
asked. 

“Brooms,” said Lupin. “Only way. You’re too young to 
Apparate, they’ll be watching the Floo Network, and 
it’s more than our life’s worth to set up an 
unauthorized Portkey.” 

“Remus says you’re a good flier,” said Kingsley 
Shacklebolt in his deep voice. 

“He’s excellent,” said Lupin, who was checking his 
watch. “Anyway, you’d better go and get packed, 
Harry, we want to be ready to go when the signal 
comes.” 

“I’ll come and help you,” said Tonks brightly. 

She followed Harry back into the hall and up the 
stairs, looking around with much curiosity and 
interest. 

“Funny place,” she said, “it’s a bit too clean, d’you 
know what I mean? Bit unnatural. Oh, this is better,” 
she added, as they entered Harry’s bedroom and he 
turned on the light. 

His room was certainly much messier than the rest of 
the house. Confined to it for four days in a very bad 
mood, Harry had not bothered tidying up after 
himself. Most of the books he owned were strewn over 
the floor where he’d tried to distract himself with each 
in turn and thrown it aside. Hedwig’s cage needed 
cleaning out and was starting to smell, and his trunk 
lay open, revealing a jumbled mixture of Muggle 



Page | 66 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




clothes and wizard’s robes that had spilled onto the 
floor around it. 

Harry started picking up books and throwing them 
hastily into his trunk. Tonks paused at his open 
wardrobe to look critically at her reflection in the 
mirror on the inside of the door. 

“You know, I don’t think purple’s really my color,” she 
said pensively, tugging at a lock of spiky hair. “D’you 
think it makes me look a bit peaky?” 

“Er — ” said Harry, looking up at her over the top of 
Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland. 

“Yeah, it does,” said Tonks decisively. She screwed up 
her eyes in a strained expression as though she were 
struggling to remember something. A second later, 
her hair had turned bubble-gum pink. 

“How did you do that?” said Harry, gaping at her as 
she opened her eyes again. 

“I’m a Metamorphmagus,” she said, looking back at 
her reflection and turning her head so that she could 
see her hair from all directions. “It means I can 
change my appearance at will,” she added, spotting 
Harry’s puzzled expression in the mirror behind her. 

“I was born one. I got top marks in Concealment and 
Disguise during Auror training without any study at 
all, it was great.” 

“You’re an Auror?” said Harry, impressed. Being a 
Dark wizard catcher was the only career he’d ever 
considered after Hogwarts. 

“Yeah,” said Tonks, looking proud. “Kingsley is as 
well; he’s a bit higher up than I am, though. I only 
qualified a year ago. Nearly failed on Stealth and 

Page | 67 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




Tracking, I’m dead clumsy, did you hear me break 
that plate when we arrived downstairs?” 



“Can you learn how to be a Metamorphmagus?” Harry 
asked her, straightening up, completely forgetting 
about packing. 

Tonks chuckled. 

“Bet you wouldn’t mind hiding that scar sometimes, 
eh?” 

Her eyes found the lightning-shaped scar on Harry’s 
forehead. 

“No, I wouldn’t mind,” Harry mumbled, turning away. 
He did not like people staring at his scar. 

“Well, you 11 have to learn the hard way, I’m afraid,” 
said Tonks. “Metamorphmagi are really rare, they’re 
born, not made. Most wizards need to use a wand or 
potions to change their appearance... But we’ve got to 
get going, Harry, we’re supposed to be packing,” she 
added guiltily, looking around at all the mess on the 
floor. 

