ground. The crowd was making a great deal of noise, 
but whether friendly or not, Harry didn’t know or 
care. It was time to do what he had to do ... to focus 
his mind, entirely and absolutely, upon the thing that 
was his only chance. ... 

He raised his wand. 

“Accio Firebolti” he shouted. 

Harry waited, every fiber of him hoping, praying. ... If 
it hadn’t worked ... if it wasn’t coming ... He seemed 
to be looking at everything around him through some 
sort of shimmering, transparent barrier, like a heat 
haze, which made the enclosure and the hundreds of 
faces around him swim strangely. ... 

And then he heard it, speeding through the air behind 
him; he turned and saw his Firebolt hurtling toward 
him around the edge of the woods, soaring into the 
enclosure, and stopping dead in midair beside him, 
waiting for him to mount. The crowd was making 
even more noise. ... Bagman was shouting something 
Page | 390 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




... but Harry’s ears were not working properly 
anymore ... listening wasn’t important. ... 

He swung his leg over the broom and kicked off from 
the ground. And a second later, something 
miraculous happened. ... 

As he soared upward, as the wind rushed through his 
hair, as the crowd’s faces became mere flesh-colored 
pinpricks below, and the Horntail shrank to the size 
of a dog, he realized that he had left not only the 
ground behind, but also his fear. . . . He was back 
where he belonged. ... 

This was just another Quidditch match, that was all 
... just another Quidditch match, and that Horntail 
was just another ugly opposing team. ... 

He looked down at the clutch of eggs and spotted the 
gold one, gleaming against its cement-colored fellows, 
residing safely between the dragon’s front legs. 
“Okay,” Harry told himself, “diversionary tactics ... 
let’s go. ...” 

He dived. The Horntail’s head followed him; he knew 
what it was going to do and pulled out of the dive just 
in time; a jet of fire had been released exactly where 
he would have been had he not swerved away . . . but 
Harry didn’t care ... that was no more than dodging a 
Bludger. ... 

“Great Scott, he can fly!” yelled Bagman as the crowd 
shrieked and gasped. “Are you watching this, Mr. 
Krum?” 

Harry soared higher in a circle; the Horntail was still 
following his progress; its head revolving on its long 
neck — if he kept this up, it would be nicely dizzy — 



Page | 391 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




but better not push it too long, or it would be 
breathing fire again — 

Harry plummeted just as the Horntail opened its 
mouth, but this time he was less lucky — he missed 
the flames, but the tail came whipping up to meet 
him instead, and as he swerved to the left, one of the 
long spikes grazed his shoulder, ripping his robes — 

He could feel it stinging, he could hear screaming and 
groans from the crowd, but the cut didn’t seem to be 
deep. ... Now he zoomed around the back of the 
Horntail, and a possibility occurred to him. ... 

The Horntail didn’t seem to want to take off, she was 
too protective of her eggs. Though she writhed and 
twisted, furling and unfurling her wings and keeping 
those fearsome yellow eyes on Harry, she was afraid 
to move too far from them . . . but he had to persuade 
her to do it, or he’d never get near them. ... The trick 
was to do it carefully, gradually. . . . 

He began to fly, first this way, then the other, not 
near enough to make her breathe fire to stave him off, 
but still posing a sufficient threat to ensure she kept 
her eyes on him. Her head swayed this way and that, 
watching him out of those vertical pupils, her fangs 
bared. ... 

He flew higher. The Horntail’s head rose with him, her 
neck now stretched to its fullest extent, still swaying, 
like a snake before its charmer. . . . 

Harry rose a few more feet, and she let out a roar of 
exasperation. He was like a fly to her, a fly she was 
longing to swat; her tail thrashed again, but he was 
too high to reach now. ... She shot fire into the air, 
which he dodged. ... Her jaws opened wide. ... 



Page | 392 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on,” Harry hissed, swerving tantalizingly above 
her, “come on, come and get me ... up you get now ...” 

And then she reared, spreading her great, black, 
leathery wings at last, as wide as those of a small 
airplane — and Harry dived. Before the dragon knew 
what he had done, or where he had disappeared to, 
he was speeding toward the ground as fast as he 
could go, toward the eggs now unprotected by her 
clawed front legs — he had taken his hands off his 
Firebolt — he had seized the golden egg — 

And with a huge spurt of speed, he was off, he was 
soaring out over the stands, the heavy egg safely 
under his uninjured arm, and it was as though 
somebody had just turned the volume back up — for 
the first time, he became properly aware of the noise 
of the crowd, which was screaming and applauding as 
loudly as the Irish supporters at the World Cup — 

“Look at that!” Bagman was yelling. “Will you look at 
that! Our youngest champion is quickest to get his 
egg! Well, this is going to shorten the odds on Mr. 
Potter!” 

Harry saw the dragon keepers rushing forward to 
subdue the Horntail, and, over at the entrance to the 
enclosure, Professor McGonagall, Professor Moody, 
and Hagrid hurrying to meet him, all of them waving 
him toward them, their smiles evident even from this 
distance. He flew back over the stands, the noise of 
the crowd pounding his eardrums, and came in 
smoothly to land, his heart lighter than it had been in 
weeks. ... He had got through the first task, he had 
survived. ... 

“That was excellent, Potter!” cried Professor 
McGonagall as he got off the Firebolt — which from 
her was extravagant praise. He noticed that her hand 

Page | 393 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




shook as she pointed at his shoulder. “You’ll need to 
see Madam Pomfrey before the judges give out your 
score. ... Over there, she’s had to mop up Diggory 
already. ...” 

“Yeh did it, Harry!” said Hagrid hoarsely. “Yeh did it! 
An’ agains’ the Horntail an’ all, an’ yeh know Charlie 
said that was the wors’ — ” 

“Thanks, Hagrid,” said Harry loudly, so that Hagrid 
wouldn’t blunder on and reveal that he had shown 
Harry the dragons beforehand. 

Professor Moody looked very pleased too; his magical 
eye was dancing in its socket. 

“Nice and easy does the trick, Potter,” he growled. 

“Right then, Potter, the first aid tent, please ...” said 
Professor McGonagall. 

Harry walked out of the enclosure, still panting, and 
saw Madam Pomfrey standing at the mouth of a 
second tent, looking worried. 

“Dragons!” she said, in a disgusted tone, pulling 
Harry inside. The tent was divided into cubicles; he 
could make out Cedric’s shadow through the canvas, 
but Cedric didn’t seem to be badly injured; he was 
sitting up, at least. Madam Pomfrey examined Harry’s 
shoulder, talking furiously all the while. “Last year 
dementors, this year dragons, what are they going to 
bring into this school next? You’re very lucky ... this 
is quite shallow ... it’ll need cleaning before I heal it 
up, though. ...” 

She cleaned the cut with a dab of some purple liquid 
that smoked and stung, but then poked his shoulder 
with her wand, and he felt it heal instantly. 

Page | 394 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Now, just sit quietly for a minute — sit! And then you 
can go and get your score.” 

She bustled out of the tent and he heard her go next 
door and say, “How does it feel now, Diggory?” 

Harry didn’t want to sit still: He was too full of 
adrenaline. He got to his feet, wanting to see what 
was going on outside, but before he’d reached the 
mouth of the tent, two people had come darting inside 
— Hermione, followed closely by Ron. 

“Harry, you were brilliant!” Hermione said squeakily. 
There were fingernail marks on her face where she 
had been clutching it in fear. “You were amazing! You 
really were!” 

But Harry was looking at Ron, who was very white 
and staring at Harry as though he were a ghost. 

“Harry,” he said, very seriously, “whoever put your 
name in that goblet — I — I reckon they’re trying to 
do you in!” 

It was as though the last few weeks had never 
happened — as though Harry were meeting Ron for 
the first time, right after he’d been made champion. 

“Caught on, have you?” said Harry coldly. “Took you 
long enough.” 

Hermione stood nervously between them, looking 
from one to the other. Ron opened his mouth 
uncertainly. Harry knew Ron was about to apologize 
and suddenly he found he didn’t need to hear it. 

“It’s okay,” he said, before Ron could get the words 
out. “Forget it.” 



Page | 395 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Ron, “I shouldn’t’ve — ” 



“ Forget it,” Harry said. 

Ron grinned nervously at him, and Harry grinned 
back. 

Hermione burst into tears. 

“There’s nothing to cry about!” Harry told her, 
bewildered. 

“You two are so stupid).” she shouted, stamping her 
foot on the ground, tears splashing down her front. 
Then, before either of them could stop her, she had 
given both of them a hug and dashed away, now 
positively howling. 

“Barking mad,” said Ron, shaking his head. “Harry, 
c’mon, they’ll be putting up your scores. ...” 

Picking up the golden egg and his Firebolt, feeling 
more elated than he would have believed possible an 
hour ago, Harry ducked out of the tent, Ron by his 
side, talking fast. 

“You were the best, you know, no competition. Cedric 
did this weird thing where he Transfigured a rock on 
the ground . . . turned it into a dog ... he was trying to 
make the dragon go for the dog instead of him. Well, 
it was a pretty cool bit of Transfiguration, and it sort 
of worked, because he did get the egg, but he got 
burned as well — the dragon changed its mind 
halfway through and decided it would rather have 
him than the Labrador; he only just got away. And 
that Fleur girl tried this sort of charm, I think she 
was trying to put it into a trance — well, that kind of 
worked too, it went all sleepy, but then it snored, and 
this great jet of flame shot out, and her skirt caught 
Page | 396 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




fire — she put it out with a bit of water out of her 
wand. And Krum — you won’t believe this, but he 
didn’t even think of flying! He was probably the best 
after you, though. Hit it with some sort of spell right 
in the eye. Only thing is, it went trampling around in 
agony and squashed half the real eggs — they took 
marks off for that, he wasn’t supposed to do any 
damage to them.” 

Ron drew breath as he and Harry reached the edge of 
the enclosure. Now that the Horntail had been taken 
away, Harry could see where the five judges were 
sitting — right at the other end, in raised seats 
draped in gold. 

“It’s marks out of ten from each one,” Ron said, and 
Harry, squinting up the field, saw the first judge — 
Madame Maxime — raise her wand in the air. What 
looked like a long silver ribbon shot out of it, which 
twisted itself into a large figure eight. 

“Not bad!” said Ron as the crowd applauded. “I 
suppose she took marks off for your shoulder. ...” 

Mr. Crouch came next. He shot a number nine into 
the air. 

“Looking good!” Ron yelled, thumping Harry on the 
back. 

Next, Dumbledore. He too put up a nine. The crowd 
was cheering harder than ever. 

Ludo Bagman — ten. 

“Ten?” said Harry in disbelief. “But ... I got hurt. ... 
What’s he playing at?” 

“Harry, don’t complain!” Ron yelled excitedly. 

Page | 397 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And now Karkaroff raised his wand. He paused for a 
moment, and then a number shot out of his wand too 
— four. 



“What?” Ron bellowed furiously. “Four? You lousy, 
biased scumbag, you gave Krum ten!” 

But Harry didn’t care, he wouldn’t have cared if 
Karkaroff had given him zero; Ron’s indignation on 
his behalf was worth about a hundred points to him. 
He didn’t tell Ron this, of course, but his heart felt 
lighter than air as he turned to leave the enclosure. 
And it wasn’t just Ron ... those weren’t only 
Gryffindors cheering in the crowd. When it had come 
to it, when they had seen what he was facing, most of 
the school had been on his side as well as Cedric’s. ... 
He didn’t care about the Slytherins, he could stand 
whatever they threw at him now. 

“You’re tied in first place, Harry! You and Krum!” said 
Charlie Weasley, hurrying to meet them as they set off 
back toward the school. “Listen, I’ve got to run, I’ve 
got to go and send Mum an owl, I swore I’d tell her 
what happened — but that was unbelievable! Oh yeah 
— and they told me to tell you you’ve got to hang 
around for a few more minutes. ... Bagman wants a 
word, back in the champions’ tent.” 

Ron said he would wait, so Harry reentered the tent, 
which somehow looked quite different now: friendly 
and welcoming. He thought back to how he’d felt 
while dodging the Horntail, and compared it to the 
long wait before he’d walked out to face it. ... There 
was no comparison; the wait had been immeasurably 
worse. 

Fleur, Cedric, and Krum all came in together. One 
side of Cedric’s face was covered in a thick orange 



Page | 398 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




paste, which was presumably mending his burn. He 
grinned at Harry when he saw him. 

“Good one, Harry.” 

“And you,” said Harry, grinning back. 

“Well done, all of you!” said Ludo Bagman, bouncing 
into the tent and looking as pleased as though he 
personally had just got past a dragon. “Now, just a 
quick few words. You’ve got a nice long break before 
the second task, which will take place at half past 
nine on the morning of February the twenty-fourth — 
but we’re giving you something to think about in the 
meantime! If you look down at those golden eggs 
you’re all holding, you will see that they open ... see 
the hinges there? You need to solve the clue inside 
the egg — because it will tell you what the second 
task is, and enable you to prepare for it! All clear? 
Sure? Well, off you go, then!” 

Harry left the tent, rejoined Ron, and they started to 
walk back around the edge of the forest, talking hard; 
Harry wanted to hear what the other champions had 
done in more detail. Then, as they rounded the clump 
of trees behind which Harry had first heard the 
dragons roar, a witch leapt out from behind them. 

It was Rita Skeeter. She was wearing acid-green robes 
today; the Quick-Quotes Quill in her hand blended 
perfectly against them. 

“Congratulations, Harry!” she said, beaming at him. “I 
wonder if you could give me a quick word? How you 
felt facing that dragon? How you feel now, about the 
fairness of the scoring?” 

“Yeah, you can have a word,” said Harry savagely. 
“Good-bye.” 

Page | 399 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And he set off back to the castle with Ron. 



Page | 400 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE HOUSE-ELF LIBERATION FRONT 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery that 
evening to find Pigwidgeon, so that Harry could send 
Sirius a letter telling him that he had managed to get 
past his dragon unscathed. On the way, Harry filled 
Ron in on everything Sirius had told him about 
Karkaroff. Though shocked at first to hear that 
Karkaroff had been a Death Eater, by the time they 
entered the Owlery Ron was saying that they ought to 
have suspected it all along. 

“Fits, doesn’t it?” he said. “Remember what Malfoy 
said on the train, about his dad being friends with 
Karkaroff? Now we know where they knew each other. 
They were probably running around in masks 
together at the World Cup. ... I’ll tell you one thing, 
though, Harry, if it was Karkaroff who put your name 
in the goblet, he’s going to be feeling really stupid 
now, isn’t he? Didn’t work, did it? You only got a 
scratch! Come here — I’ll do it — ” 

Pigwidgeon was so overexcited at the idea of a delivery 
he was flying around and around Harry’s head, 

Page | 401 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 



hooting incessantly. Ron snatched Pigwidgeon out of 
the air and held him still while Harry attached the 
letter to his leg. 

“There’s no way any of the other tasks are going to be 
that dangerous, how could they be?” Ron went on as 
he carried Pigwidgeon to the window. “You know 
what? I reckon you could win this tournament, Harry, 
I’m serious.” 

Harry knew that Ron was only saying this to make up 
for his behavior of the last few weeks, but he 
appreciated it all the same. Hermione, however, 
leaned against the Owlery wall, folded her arms, and 
frowned at Ron. 

“Harry’s got a long way to go before he finishes this 
tournament,” she said seriously. “If that was the first 
task, I hate to think what’s coming next.” 

“Right little ray of sunshine, aren’t you?” said Ron. 
“You and Professor Trelawney should get together 
sometime.” 

He threw Pigwidgeon out of the window. Pigwidgeon 
plummeted twelve feet before managing to pull 
himself back up again; the letter attached to his leg 
was much longer and heavier than usual — Harry 
hadn’t been able to resist giving Sirius a blow-by-blow 
account of exactly how he had swerved, circled, and 
dodged the Horntail. They watched Pigwidgeon 
disappear into the darkness, and then Ron said, 

“Well, we’d better get downstairs for your surprise 
party, Harry — Fred and George should have nicked 
enough food from the kitchens by now.” 

Sure enough, when they entered the Gryffindor 
common room it exploded with cheers and yells again. 
There were mountains of cakes and flagons of 

Page | 402 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




pumpkin juice and butterbeer on every surface; Lee 
Jordan had let off some Filibuster’s Fireworks, so that 
the air was thick with stars and sparks; and Dean 
Thomas, who was very good at drawing, had put up 
some impressive new banners, most of which depicted 
Harry zooming around the Horntail’s head on his 
Firebolt, though a couple showed Cedric with his 
head on fire. 

Harry helped himself to food; he had almost forgotten 
what it was like to feel properly hungry, and sat down 
with Ron and Hermione. He couldn’t believe how 
happy he felt; he had Ron back on his side, he’d 
gotten through the first task, and he wouldn’t have to 
face the second one for three months. 

“Blimey, this is heavy,” said Lee Jordan, picking up 
the golden egg, which Harry had left on a table, and 
weighing it in his hands. “Open it, Harry, go on! Let’s 
just see what’s inside it!” 

“He’s supposed to work out the clue on his own,” 
Hermione said swiftly. “It’s in the tournament rules. 



“I was supposed to work out how to get past the 
dragon on my own too,” Harry muttered, so only 
Hermione could hear him, and she grinned rather 
guiltily. 

“Yeah, go on, Harry, open it!” several people echoed. 

Lee passed Harry the egg, and Harry dug his 
fingernails into the groove that ran all the way around 
it and prised it open. 

It was hollow and completely empty — but the 
moment Harry opened it, the most horrible noise, a 
loud and screechy wailing, filled the room. The 

Page | 403 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




nearest thing to it Harry had ever heard was the ghost 
orchestra at Nearly Headless Nick’s deathday party, 
who had all been playing the musical saw. 

“Shut it!” Fred bellowed, his hands over his ears. 

“What was that?” said Seamus Finnigan, staring at 
the egg as Harry slammed it shut again. “Sounded 
like a banshee. ... Maybe you’ve got to get past one of 
those next, Harry!” 

“It was someone being tortured!” said Neville, who 
had gone very white and spilled sausage rolls all over 
the floor. “You’re going to have to fight the Cruciatus 
Curse!” 

“Don’t be a prat, Neville, that’s illegal,” said George. 
“They wouldn’t use the Cruciatus Curse on the 
champions. I thought it sounded a bit like Percy 
singing ... maybe you’ve got to attack him while he’s 
in the shower, Harry.” 

“Want a jam tart, Hermione?” said Fred. 

Hermione looked doubtfully at the plate he was 
offering her. Fred grinned. 

“It’s all right,” he said. “I haven’t done anything to 
them. It’s the custard creams you’ve got to watch — ” 

Neville, who had just bitten into a custard cream, 
choked and spat it out. Fred laughed. 

“Just my little joke, Neville. ...” 

Hermione took a jam tart. Then she said, “Did you get 
all this from the kitchens, Fred?” 



Page | 404 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yep,” said Fred, grinning at her. He put on a high- 
pitched squeak and imitated a house-elf. “ ‘Anything 
we can get you, sir, anything at all!’ They’re dead 
helpful ... get me a roast ox if I said I was peckish.” 

“How do you get in there?” Hermione said in an 
innocently casual sort of voice. 

“Easy,” said Fred, “concealed door behind a painting 
of a bowl of fruit. Just tickle the pear, and it giggles 
and — ” He stopped and looked suspiciously at her. 
“Why?” 

“Nothing,” said Hermione quickly. 

“Going to try and lead the house-elves out on strike 
now, are you?” said George. “Going to give up all the 
leaflet stuff and try and stir them up into rebellion?” 

Several people chortled. Hermione didn’t answer. 

“Don’t you go upsetting them and telling them they’ve 
got to take clothes and salaries!” said Fred warningly. 
“You’ll put them off their cooking!” 

Just then, Neville caused a slight diversion by turning 
into a large canary. 

“Oh — sorry, Neville!” Fred shouted over all the 
laughter. “I forgot — it was the custard creams we 
hexed — ” 

Within a minute, however, Neville had molted, and 
once his feathers had fallen off, he reappeared looking 
entirely normal. He even joined in laughing. 

“Canary Creams!” Fred shouted to the excitable 
crowd. “George and I invented them — seven Sickles 
each, a bargain!” 

Page | 405 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




It was nearly one in the morning when Harry finally 
went up to the dormitory with Ron, Neville, Seamus, 
and Dean. Before he pulled the curtains of his four- 
poster shut, Harry set his tiny model of the 
Hungarian Horntail on the table next to his bed, 
where it yawned, curled up, and closed its eyes. 

Really, Harry thought, as he pulled the hangings on 
his four-poster closed, Hagrid had a point . . . they 
were all right, really, dragons. ... 

The start of December brought wind and sleet to 
Hogwarts. Drafty though the castle always was in 
winter, Harry was glad of its fires and thick walls 
every time he passed the Durmstrang ship on the 
lake, which was pitching in the high winds, its black 
sails billowing against the dark skies. He thought the 
Beauxbatons caravan was likely to be pretty chilly 
too. Hagrid, he noticed, was keeping Madame 
Maxime’s horses well provided with their preferred 
drink of single-malt whiskey; the fumes wafting from 
the trough in the corner of their paddock was enough 
to make the entire Care of Magical Creatures class 
light-headed. This was unhelpful, as they were still 
tending the horrible skrewts and needed their wits 
about them. 

“I’m not sure whether they hibernate or not,” Hagrid 
told the shivering class in the windy pumpkin patch 
next lesson. “Thought we’d jus’ try an’ see if they 
fancied a kip ... we’ll jus’ settle ’em down in these 
boxes. ...” 

There were now only ten skrewts left; apparently their 
desire to kill one another had not been exercised out 
of them. Each of them was now approaching six feet 
in length. Their thick gray armor; their powerful, 
scuttling legs; their fire-blasting ends; their stings 
and their suckers, combined to make the skrewts the 
most repulsive things Harry had ever seen. The class 
Page | 406 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




looked dispiritedly at the enormous boxes Hagrid had 
brought out, all lined with pillows and fluffy blankets. 

“Well jus’ lead ’em in here,” Hagrid said, “an’ put the 
lids on, and we’ll see what happens.” 

But the skrewts, it transpired, did not hibernate, and 
did not appreciate being forced into pillow-lined boxes 
and nailed in. Hagrid was soon yelling, “Don’ panic, 
now, don’ panic!” while the skrewts rampaged around 
the pumpkin patch, now strewn with the smoldering 
wreckage of the boxes. Most of the class — Malfoy, 
Crabbe, and Goyle in the lead — had fled into 
Hagrid ’s cabin through the back door and barricaded 
themselves in; Harry, Ron, and Hermione, however, 
were among those who remained outside trying to 
help Hagrid. Together they managed to restrain and 
tie up nine of the skrewts, though at the cost of 
numerous burns and cuts; finally, only one skrewt 
was left. 

“Don’ frighten him, now!” Hagrid shouted as Ron and 
Harry used their wands to shoot jets of fiery sparks at 
the skrewt, which was advancing menacingly on 
them, its sting arched, quivering, over its back. “Jus’ 
try an’ slip the rope ’round his sting, so he won’ hurt 
any o’ the others!” 

“Yeah, we wouldn’t want that!” Ron shouted angrily 
as he and Harry backed into the wall of Hagrid ’s 
cabin, still holding the skrewt off with their sparks. 

“Well, well, well ... this does look like fun.” 

Rita Skeeter was leaning on Hagrid ’s garden fence, 
looking in at the mayhem. She was wearing a thick 
magenta cloak with a furry purple collar today, and 
her crocodile-skin handbag was over her arm. 



Page | 407 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid launched himself forward on top of the skrewt 
that was cornering Harry and Ron and flattened it; a 
blast of fire shot out of its end, withering the 
pumpkin plants nearby. 

“Who ’re you?” Hagrid asked Rita Skeeter as he 
slipped a loop of rope around the skrewt’s sting and 
tightened it. 

“Rita Skeeter, Daily Prophet reporter,” Rita replied, 
beaming at him. Her gold teeth glinted. 

“Thought Dumbledore said you weren’ allowed inside 
the school anymore,” said Hagrid, frowning slightly as 
he got off the slightly squashed skrewt and started 
tugging it over to its fellows. 

Rita acted as though she hadn’t heard what Hagrid 
had said. 

“What are these fascinating creatures called?” she 
asked, beaming still more widely. 

“Blast-Ended Skrewts,” grunted Hagrid. 

“Really?” said Rita, apparently full of lively interest. 
“I’ve never heard of them before ... where do they 
come from?” 

Harry noticed a dull red flush rising up out of 
Hagrid’s wild black beard, and his heart sank. Where 
had Hagrid got the skrewts from? Hermione, who 
seemed to be thinking along these lines, said quickly, 
“They’re very interesting, aren’t they? Aren’t they, 
Harry?” 

“What? Oh yeah ... ouch ... interesting,” said Harry as 
she stepped on his foot. 



Page | 408 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah, you’re here, Harry!” said Rita Skeeter as she 
looked around. “So you like Care of Magical 
Creatures, do you? One of your favorite lessons?” 

“Yes,” said Harry stoutly. Hagrid beamed at him. 

“Lovely,” said Rita. “Really lovely. Been teaching 
long?” she added to Hagrid. 

Harry noticed her eyes travel over Dean (who had a 
nasty cut across one cheek), Lavender (whose robes 
were badly singed), Seamus (who was nursing several 
burnt fingers), and then to the cabin windows, where 
most of the class stood, their noses pressed against 
the glass waiting to see if the coast was clear. 

“This is o’ny me second year,” said Hagrid. 

“Lovely... I don’t suppose you’d like to give an 
interview, would you? Share some of your experience 
of magical creatures? The Prophet does a zoological 
column every Wednesday, as I’m sure you know. We 
could feature these — er — Bang-Ended Scoots.” 

“Blast-Ended Skrewts,” Hagrid said eagerly. “Er — 
yeah, why not?” 

Harry had a very bad feeling about this, but there was 
no way of communicating it to Hagrid without Rita 
Skeeter seeing, so he had to stand and watch in 
silence as Hagrid and Rita Skeeter made 
arrangements to meet in the Three Broomsticks for a 
good long interview later that week. Then the bell 
rang up at the castle, signaling the end of the lesson. 

“Well, good-bye, Harry!” Rita Skeeter called merrily to 
him as he set off with Ron and Hermione. “Until 
Friday night, then, Hagrid!” 



Page | 409 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Shell twist everything he says,” Harry said under his 
breath. 

“Just as long as he didn’t import those skrewts 
illegally or anything,” said Hermione desperately. 

They looked at one another — it was exactly the sort 
of thing Hagrid might do. 

“Hagrid’s been in loads of trouble before, and 
Dumbledore’s never sacked him,” said Ron 
consolingly. “Worst that can happen is Hagrid’ll have 
to get rid of the skrewts. Sorry ... did I say worst? I 
meant best.” 

Harry and Hermione laughed, and, feeling slightly 
more cheerful, went off to lunch. 

Harry thoroughly enjoyed double Divination that 
afternoon; they were still doing star charts and 
predictions, but now that he and Ron were friends 
once more, the whole thing seemed very funny again. 
Professor Trelawney, who had been so pleased with 
the pair of them when they had been predicting their 
own horrific deaths, quickly became irritated as they 
sniggered through her explanation of the various 
ways in which Pluto could disrupt everyday life. 

“I would think,” she said, in a mystical whisper that 
did not conceal her obvious annoyance, “that some of 
us” — she stared very meaningfully at Harry — 

“might be a little less frivolous had they seen what I 
have seen during my crystal gazing last night. As I sat 
here, absorbed in my needlework, the urge to consult 
the orb overpowered me. I arose, I settled myself 
before it, and I gazed into its crystalline depths . . . and 
what do you think I saw gazing back at me?” 

“An ugly old bat in outsize specs?” Ron muttered 
under his breath. 

Page | 410 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




Harry fought hard to keep his face straight. 

“Death, my dears.” 

Parvati and Lavender both put their hands over their 
mouths, looking horrified. 

“Yes,” said Professor Trelawney, nodding impressively, 
“it comes, ever closer, it circles overhead like a 
vulture, ever lower ... ever lower over the castle. ...” 

She stared pointedly at Harry, who yawned very 
widely and obviously. 

“It’d be a bit more impressive if she hadn’t done it 
about eighty times before,” Harry said as they finally 
regained the fresh air of the staircase beneath 
Professor Trelawney’s room. “But if I’d dropped dead 
every time she’s told me I’m going to, I’d be a medical 
miracle.” 

“You’d be a sort of extra-concentrated ghost,” said 
Ron, chortling, as they passed the Bloody Baron going 
in the opposite direction, his wide eyes staring 
sinisterly. “At least we didn’t get homework. I hope 
Hermione got loads off Professor Vector, I love not 
working when she is. ...” 

But Hermione wasn’t at dinner, nor was she in the 
library when they went to look for her afterward. The 
only person in there was Viktor Krum. Ron hovered 
behind the bookshelves for a while, watching Krum, 
debating in whispers with Harry whether he should 
ask for an autograph — but then Ron realized that six 
or seven girls were lurking in the next row of books, 
debating exactly the same thing, and he lost his 
enthusiasm for the idea. 



Page | 411 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Wonder where she’s got to?” Ron said as he and 
Harry went back to Gryffindor Tower. 



“Dunno ... balderdash.” 

But the Fat Lady had barely begun to swing forward 
when the sound of racing feet behind them 
announced Hermione’s arrival. 

“Harry!” she panted, skidding to a halt beside him 
(the Fat Lady stared down at her, eyebrows raised). 
“Harry, you’ve got to come — you’ve got to come, the 
most amazing thing’s happened — please — ” 

She seized Harry’s arm and started to try to drag him 
back along the corridor. 

“What’s the matter?” Harry said. 

“I’ll show you when we get there — oh come on, quick 



Harry looked around at Ron; he looked back at Harry, 
intrigued. 
