
      The light from the rose-shaded lamp fell on her neck and
      arms—Soames liked her to dine in a low dress, it gave him an
      inexpressible feeling of superiority to the majority of his
      acquaintance, whose wives were contented with their best high
      frocks or with tea-gowns, when they dined at home. Under that
      rosy light her amber-coloured hair and fair skin made strange
      contrast with her dark brown eyes.

      Could a man own anything prettier than this dining-table with its
      deep tints, the starry, soft-petalled roses, the ruby-coloured
      glass, and quaint silver furnishing; could a man own anything
      prettier than the woman who sat at it? Gratitude was no virtue
      among Forsytes, who, competitive, and full of common-sense, had
      no occasion for it; and Soames only experienced a sense of
      exasperation amounting to pain, that he did not own her as it was
      his right to own her, that he could not, as by stretching out his
      hand to that rose, pluck her and sniff the very secrets of her
      heart.

      Out of his other property, out of all the things he had
      collected, his silver, his pictures, his houses, his investments,
      he got a secret and intimate feeling; out of her he got none.

      In this house of his there was writing on every wall. His
      business-like temperament protested against a mysterious warning
      that she was not made for him. He had married this woman,
      conquered her, made her his own, and it seemed to him contrary to
      the most fundamental of all laws, the law of possession, that he
      could do no more than own her body—if indeed he could do that,
      which he was beginning to doubt. If any one had asked him if he
      wanted to own her soul, the question would have seemed to him
      both ridiculous and sentimental. But he did so want, and the
      writing said he never would.

      She was ever silent, passive, gracefully averse; as though
      terrified lest by word, motion, or sign she might lead him to
      believe that she was fond of him; and he asked himself: Must I
      always go on like this?

      Like most novel readers of his generation (and Soames was a great
      novel reader), literature coloured his view of life; and he had
      imbibed the belief that it was only a question of time.

      In the end the husband always gained the affection of his wife.
      Even in those cases—a class of book he was not very fond of—which
      ended in tragedy, the wife always died with poignant regrets on
      her lips, or if it were the husband who died—unpleasant
      thought—threw herself on his body in an agony of remorse.

      He often took Irene to the theatre, instinctively choosing the
      modern Society Plays with the modern Society conjugal problem, so
      fortunately different from any conjugal problem in real life. He
      found that they too always ended in the same way, even when there
      was a lover in the case. While he was watching the play Soames
      often sympathized with the lover; but before he reached home
      again, driving with Irene in a hansom, he saw that this would not
      do, and he was glad the play had ended as it had. There was one
      class of husband that had just then come into fashion, the
      strong, rather rough, but extremely sound man, who was peculiarly
      successful at the end of the play; with this person Soames was
      really not in sympathy, and had it not been for his own position,
      would have expressed his disgust with the fellow. But he was so
      conscious of how vital to himself was the necessity for being a
      successful, even a “strong,” husband, that he never spoke of a
      distaste born perhaps by the perverse processes of Nature out of
      a secret fund of brutality in himself.

      But Irene’s silence this evening was exceptional. He had never
      before seen such an expression on her face. And since it is
      always the unusual which alarms, Soames was alarmed. He ate his
      savoury, and hurried the maid as she swept off the crumbs with
      the silver sweeper. When she had left the room, he filled his
      glass with wine and said:

      “Anybody been here this afternoon?”

      “June.”

      “What did _she_ want?” It was an axiom with the Forsytes that
      people did not go anywhere unless they wanted something. “Came to
      talk about her lover, I suppose?”

      Irene made no reply.

      “It looks to me,” continued Soames, “as if she were sweeter on
      him than he is on her. She’s always following him about.”

      Irene’s eyes made him feel uncomfortable.

      “You’ve no business to say such a thing!” she exclaimed.

      “Why not? Anybody can see it.”

      “They cannot. And if they could, it’s disgraceful to say so.”

      Soames’s composure gave way.

      “You’re a pretty wife!” he said. But secretly he wondered at the
      heat of her reply; it was unlike her. “You’re cracked about June!
      I can tell you one thing: now that she has the Buccaneer in tow,
      she doesn’t care twopence about you, and, you’ll find it out. But
      you won’t see so much of her in future; we’re going to live in
      the country.”

      He had been glad to get his news out under cover of this burst of
      irritation. He had expected a cry of dismay; the silence with
      which his pronouncement was received alarmed him.

      “You don’t seem interested,” he was obliged to add.

      “I knew it already.”

      He looked at her sharply.

      “Who told you?”

      “June.”

      “How did she know?”

      Irene did not answer. Baffled and uncomfortable, he said:

      “It’s a fine thing for Bosinney, it’ll be the making of him. I
      suppose she’s told you all about it?”

      “Yes.”

      There was another pause, and then Soames said:

      “I suppose you don’t want to, go?”

      Irene made no reply.

      “Well, I can’t tell what you want. You never seem contented
      here.”

      “Have my wishes anything to do with it?”

      She took the vase of roses and left the room. Soames remained
      seated. Was it for this that he had signed that contract? Was it
      for this that he was going to spend some ten thousand pounds?
      Bosinney’s phrase came back to him: “Women are the devil!”

      But presently he grew calmer. It might have been worse. She might
      have flared up. He had expected something more than this. It was
      lucky, after all, that June had broken the ice for him. She must
      have wormed it out of Bosinney; he might have known she would.

      He lighted his cigarette. After all, Irene had not made a scene!
      She would come round—that was the best of her; she was cold, but
      not sulky. And, puffing the cigarette smoke at a lady-bird on the
      shining table, he plunged into a reverie about the house. It was
      no good worrying; he would go and make it up presently. She would
      be sitting out there in the dark, under the Japanese sunshade,
      knitting. A beautiful, warm night....

      In truth, June had come in that afternoon with shining eyes, and
      the words: “Soames is a brick! It’s splendid for Phil—the very
      thing for him!”

      Irene’s face remaining dark and puzzled, she went on:

      “Your new house at Robin Hill, of course. What? Don’t you know?”

      Irene did not know.

      “Oh! then, I suppose I oughtn’t to have told you!” Looking
      impatiently at her friend, she cried: “You look as if you didn’t
      care. Don’t you see, it’s what I’ve been praying for—the very
      chance he’s been wanting all this time. Now you’ll see what he
      can do;” and thereupon she poured out the whole story.

      Since her own engagement she had not seemed much interested in
      her friend’s position; the hours she spent with Irene were given
      to confidences of her own; and at times, for all her affectionate
      pity, it was impossible to keep out of her smile a trace of
      compassionate contempt for the woman who had made such a mistake
      in her life—such a vast, ridiculous mistake.

      “He’s to have all the decorations as well—a free hand. It’s
      perfect—” June broke into laughter, her little figure quivered
      gleefully; she raised her hand, and struck a blow at a muslin
      curtain. “Do you, know I even asked Uncle James....” But, with a
      sudden dislike to mentioning that incident, she stopped; and
      presently, finding her friend so unresponsive, went away. She
      looked back from the pavement, and Irene was still standing in
      the doorway. In response to her farewell wave, Irene put her hand
      to her brow, and, turning slowly, shut the door....

      Soames went to the drawing-room presently, and peered at her
      through the window.

      Out in the shadow of the Japanese sunshade she was sitting very
      still, the lace on her white shoulders stirring with the soft
      rise and fall of her bosom.

      But about this silent creature sitting there so motionless, in
      the dark, there seemed a warmth, a hidden fervour of feeling, as
      if the whole of her being had been stirred, and some change were
      taking place in its very depths.

      He stole back to the dining-room unnoticed.




      CHAPTER VI JAMES AT LARGE

      It was not long before Soames’s determination to build went the
      round of the family, and created the flutter that any decision
      connected with property should make among Forsytes.

      It was not his fault, for he had been determined that no one
      should know. June, in the fulness of her heart, had told Mrs.
      Small, giving her leave only to tell Aunt Ann—she thought it
      would cheer her, the poor old sweet! for Aunt Ann had kept her
      room now for many days.

      Mrs. Small told Aunt Ann at once, who, smiling as she lay back on
      her pillows, said in her distinct, trembling old voice:

      “It’s very nice for dear June; but I hope they will be
      careful—it’s rather dangerous!”

      When she was left alone again, a frown, like a cloud presaging a
      rainy morrow, crossed her face.

      While she was lying there so many days the process of recharging
      her will went on all the time; it spread to her face, too, and
      tightening movements were always in action at the corners of her
      lips.

      The maid Smither, who had been in her service since girlhood, and
      was spoken of as “Smither—a good girl—but so slow!”—the maid
      Smither performed every morning with extreme punctiliousness the
      crowning ceremony of that ancient toilet. Taking from the
      recesses of their pure white band-box those flat, grey curls, the
      insignia of personal dignity, she placed them securely in her
      mistress’s hands, and turned her back.

      And every day Aunts Juley and Hester were required to come and
      report on Timothy; what news there was of Nicholas; whether dear
      June had succeeded in getting Jolyon to shorten the engagement,
      now that Mr. Bosinney was building Soames a house; whether young
      Roger’s wife was really—expecting; how the operation on Archie
      had succeeded; and what Swithin had done about that empty house
      in Wigmore Street, where the tenant had lost all his money and
      treated him so badly; above all, about Soames; was Irene
      still—still asking for a separate room? And every morning Smither
      was told: “I shall be coming down this afternoon, Smither, about
      two o’clock. I shall want your arm, after all these days in bed!”

      After telling Aunt Ann, Mrs. Small had spoken of the house in the
      strictest confidence to Mrs. Nicholas, who in her turn had asked
      Winifred Dartie for confirmation, supposing, of course, that,
      being Soames’s sister, she would know all about it. Through her
      it had in due course come round to the ears of James. He had been
      a good deal agitated.

      “Nobody,” he said, “told him anything.” And, rather than go
      direct to Soames himself, of whose taciturnity he was afraid, he
      took his umbrella and went round to Timothy’s.

      He found Mrs. Septimus and Hester (who had been told—she was so
      safe, she found it tiring to talk) ready, and indeed eager, to
      discuss the news. It was very good of dear Soames, they thought,
      to employ Mr. Bosinney, but rather risky. What had George named
      him? “The Buccaneer!” How droll! But George was always droll!
      However, it would be all in the family they supposed they must
      really look upon Mr. Bosinney as belonging to the family, though
      it seemed strange.

      James here broke in:

      “Nobody knows anything about him. I don’t see what Soames wants
      with a young man like that. I shouldn’t be surprised if Irene had
      put her oar in. I shall speak to....”

      “Soames,” interposed Aunt Juley, “told Mr. Bosinney that he
      didn’t wish it mentioned. He wouldn’t like it to be talked about,
      I’m sure, and if Timothy knew he would be very vexed, I....”

      James put his hand behind his ear:

      “What?” he said. “I’m getting very deaf. I suppose I don’t hear
      people. Emily’s got a bad toe. We shan’t be able to start for
      Wales till the end of the month. There’s always something!” And,
      having got what he wanted, he took his hat and went away.

      It was a fine afternoon, and he walked across the Park towards
      Soames’s, where he intended to dine, for Emily’s toe kept her in
      bed, and Rachel and Cicely were on a visit to the country. He
      took the slanting path from the Bayswater side of the Row to the
      Knightsbridge Gate, across a pasture of short, burnt grass,
      dotted with blackened sheep, strewn with seated couples and
      strange waifs; lying prone on their faces, like corpses on a
      field over which the wave of battle has rolled.

      He walked rapidly, his head bent, looking neither to right nor
      left. The appearance of this park, the centre of his own
      battle-field, where he had all his life been fighting, excited no
      thought or speculation in his mind. These corpses flung down,
      there, from out the press and turmoil of the struggle, these
      pairs of lovers sitting cheek by jowl for an hour of idle Elysium
      snatched from the monotony of their treadmill, awakened no
      fancies in his mind; he had outlived that kind of imagination;
      his nose, like the nose of a sheep, was fastened to the pastures
      on which he browsed.

      One of his tenants had lately shown a disposition to be
      behind-hand in his rent, and it had become a grave question
      whether he had not better turn him out at once, and so run the
      risk of not re-letting before Christmas. Swithin had just been
      let in very badly, but it had served him right—he had held on too
      long.

      He pondered this as he walked steadily, holding his umbrella
      carefully by the wood, just below the crook of the handle, so as
      to keep the ferule off the ground, and not fray the silk in the
      middle. And, with his thin, high shoulders stooped, his long legs
      moving with swift mechanical precision, this passage through the
      Park, where the sun shone with a clear flame on so much
      idleness—on so many human evidences of the remorseless battle of
      Property, raging beyond its ring—was like the flight of some land
      bird across the sea.

      He felt a touch on the arm as he came out at Albert Gate.

      It was Soames, who, crossing from the shady side of Piccadilly,
      where he had been walking home from the office, had suddenly
      appeared alongside.

      “Your mother’s in bed,” said James; “I was just coming to you,
      but I suppose I shall be in the way.”

      The outward relations between James and his son were marked by a
      lack of sentiment peculiarly Forsytean, but for all that the two
      were by no means unattached. Perhaps they regarded one another as
      an investment; certainly they were solicitous of each other’s
      welfare, glad of each other’s company. They had never exchanged
      two words upon the more intimate problems of life, or revealed in
      each other’s presence the existence of any deep feeling.

      Something beyond the power of word-analysis bound them together,
      something hidden deep in the fibre of nations and families—for
      blood, they say, is thicker than water—and neither of them was a
      cold-blooded man. Indeed, in James love of his children was now
      the prime motive of his existence. To have creatures who were
      parts of himself, to whom he might transmit the money he saved,
      was at the root of his saving; and, at seventy-five, what was
      left that could give him pleasure, but—saving? The kernel of life
      was in this saving for his children.

      Than James Forsyte, notwithstanding all his “Jonah-isms,” there
      was no saner man (if the leading symptom of sanity, as we are
      told, is self-preservation, though without doubt Timothy went too
      far) in all this London, of which he owned so much, and loved
      with such a dumb love, as the centre of his opportunities. He had
      the marvellous instinctive sanity of the middle class. In
      him—more than in Jolyon, with his masterful will and his moments
      of tenderness and philosophy—more than in Swithin, the martyr to
      crankiness—Nicholas, the sufferer from ability—and Roger, the
      victim of enterprise—beat the true pulse of compromise; of all
      the brothers he was least remarkable in mind and person, and for
      that reason more likely to live for ever.

      To James, more than to any of the others, was “the family”
      significant and dear. There had always been something primitive
      and cosy in his attitude towards life; he loved the family
      hearth, he loved gossip, and he loved grumbling. All his
      decisions were formed of a cream which he skimmed off the family
      mind; and, through that family, off the minds of thousands of
      other families of similar fibre. Year after year, week after
      week, he went to Timothy’s, and in his brother’s front
      drawing-room—his legs twisted, his long white whiskers framing
      his clean-shaven mouth—would sit watching the family pot simmer,
      the cream rising to the top; and he would go away sheltered,
      refreshed, comforted, with an indefinable sense of comfort.

      Beneath the adamant of his self-preserving instinct there was
      much real softness in James; a visit to Timothy’s was like an
      hour spent in the lap of a mother; and the deep craving he
      himself had for the protection of the family wing reacted in turn
      on his feelings towards his own children; it was a nightmare to
      him to think of them exposed to the treatment of the world, in
      money, health, or reputation. When his old friend John Street’s
      son volunteered for special service, he shook his head
      querulously, and wondered what John Street was about to allow it;
      and when young Street was assagaied, he took it so much to heart
      that he made a point of calling everywhere with the special
      object of saying: He knew how it would be—he’d no patience with
      them!

      When his son-in-law Dartie had that financial crisis, due to
      speculation in Oil Shares, James made himself ill worrying over
      it; the knell of all prosperity seemed to have sounded. It took
      him three months and a visit to Baden-Baden to get better; there
      was something terrible in the idea that but for his, James’s,
      money, Dartie’s name might have appeared in the Bankruptcy List.

      Composed of a physiological mixture so sound that if he had an
      earache he thought he was dying, he regarded the occasional
      ailments of his wife and children as in the nature of personal
      grievances, special interventions of Providence for the purpose
      of destroying his peace of mind; but he did not believe at all in
      the ailments of people outside his own immediate family,
      affirming them in every case to be due to neglected liver.

      His universal comment was: “What can they expect? I have it
      myself, if I’m not careful!”

      When he went to Soames’s that evening he felt that life was hard
      on him: There was Emily with a bad toe, and Rachel gadding about
      in the country; he got no sympathy from anybody; and Ann, she was
      ill—he did not believe she would last through the summer; he had
      called there three times now without her being able to see him!
      And this idea of Soames’s, building a house, _that_ would have to
      be looked into. As to the trouble with Irene, he didn’t know what
      was to come of that—anything might come of it!

      He entered 62, Montpellier Square with the fullest intentions of
      being miserable.

      It was already half-past seven, and Irene, dressed for dinner,
      was seated in the drawing-room. She was wearing her gold-coloured
      frock—for, having been displayed at a dinner-party, a soirée, and
      a dance, it was now to be worn at home—and she had adorned the
      bosom with a cascade of lace, on which James’s eyes riveted
      themselves at once.

      “Where do you get your things?” he said in an aggravated voice.
      “I never see Rachel and Cicely looking half so well. That
      rose-point, now—that’s not real!”

      Irene came close, to prove to him that he was in error.

      And, in spite of himself, James felt the influence of her
      deference, of the faint seductive perfume exhaling from her. No
      self-respecting Forsyte surrendered at a blow; so he merely said:
      He didn’t know—he expected she was spending a pretty penny on
      dress.

      The gong sounded, and, putting her white arm within his, Irene
      took him into the dining-room. She seated him in Soames’s usual
      place, round the corner on her left. The light fell softly there,
      so that he would not be worried by the gradual dying of the day;
      and she began to talk to him about himself.

      Presently, over James came a change, like the mellowing that
      steals upon a fruit in the sun; a sense of being caressed, and
      praised, and petted, and all without the bestowal of a single
      caress or word of praise. He felt that what he was eating was
      agreeing with him; he could not get that feeling at home; he did
      not know when he had enjoyed a glass of champagne so much, and,
      on inquiring the brand and price, was surprised to find that it
      was one of which he had a large stock himself, but could never
      drink; he instantly formed the resolution to let his wine
      merchant know that he had been swindled.

      Looking up from his food, he remarked:

      “You’ve a lot of nice things about the place. Now, what did you
      give for that sugar-sifter? Shouldn’t wonder if it was worth
      money!”

      He was particularly pleased with the appearance of a picture, on
      the wall opposite, which he himself had given them:

      “I’d no idea it was so good!” he said.

      They rose to go into the drawing-room, and James followed Irene
      closely.

      “That’s what I call a capital little dinner,” he murmured,
      breathing pleasantly down on her shoulder; “nothing heavy—and not
      too Frenchified. But _I_ can’t get it at home. I pay my cook
      sixty pounds a year, but _she_ can’t give me a dinner like that!”

      He had as yet made no allusion to the building of the house, nor
      did he when Soames, pleading the excuse of business, betook
      himself to the room at the top, where he kept his pictures.

      James was left alone with his daughter-in-law. The glow of the
      wine, and of an excellent liqueur, was still within him. He felt
      quite warm towards her. She was really a taking little thing; she
      listened to you, and seemed to understand what you were saying;
      and, while talking, he kept examining her figure, from her
      bronze-coloured shoes to the waved gold of her hair. She was
      leaning back in an Empire chair, her shoulders poised against the
      top—her body, flexibly straight and unsupported from the hips,
      swaying when she moved, as though giving to the arms of a lover.
      Her lips were smiling, her eyes half-closed.

      It may have been a recognition of danger in the very charm of her
      attitude, or a twang of digestion, that caused a sudden dumbness
      to fall on James. He did not remember ever having been quite
      alone with Irene before. And, as he looked at her, an odd feeling
      crept over him, as though he had come across something strange
      and foreign.

      Now what was she thinking about—sitting back like that?

      Thus when he spoke it was in a sharper voice, as if he had been
      awakened from a pleasant dream.

      “What d’you do with yourself all day?” he said. “You never come
      round to Park Lane!”

      She seemed to be making very lame excuses, and James did not look
      at her. He did not want to believe that she was really avoiding
      them—it would mean too much.

      “I expect the fact is, you haven’t time,” he said; “You’re always
      about with June. I expect you’re useful to her with her young
      man, chaperoning, and one thing and another. They tell me she’s
      never at home now; your Uncle Jolyon he doesn’t like it, I fancy,
      being left so much alone as he is. They tell me she’s always
      hanging about for this young Bosinney; I suppose he comes here
      every day. Now, what do you think of him? D’you think he knows
      his own mind? He seems to me a poor thing. I should say the grey
      mare was the better horse!”

      The colour deepened in Irene’s face; and James watched her
      suspiciously.

      “Perhaps you don’t quite understand Mr. Bosinney,” she said.

      “Don’t understand him!” James hummed out: “Why not?—you can see
      he’s one of these artistic chaps. They say he’s clever—they all
      think they’re clever. You know more about him than I do,” he
      added; and again his suspicious glance rested on her.

      “He is designing a house for Soames,” she said softly, evidently
      trying to smooth things over.

      “That brings me to what I was going to say,” continued James; “I
      don’t know what Soames wants with a young man like that; why
      doesn’t he go to a first-rate man?”

      “Perhaps Mr. Bosinney is first-rate!”

      James rose, and took a turn with bent head.

      “That’s it’,” he said, “you young people, you all stick together;
      you all think you know best!”

      Halting his tall, lank figure before her, he raised a finger, and
      levelled it at her bosom, as though bringing an indictment
      against her beauty:

      “All I can say is, these artistic people, or whatever they call
      themselves, they’re as unreliable as they can be; and my advice
      to you is, don’t you have too much to do with him!”

      Irene smiled; and in the curve of her lips was a strange
      provocation. She seemed to have lost her deference. Her breast
      rose and fell as though with secret anger; she drew her hands
      inwards from their rest on the arms of her chair until the tips
      of her fingers met, and her dark eyes looked unfathomably at
      James.

      The latter gloomily scrutinized the floor.

      “I tell you my opinion,” he said, “it’s a pity you haven’t got a
      child to think about, and occupy you!”

      A brooding look came instantly on Irene’s face, and even James
      became conscious of the rigidity that took possession of her
      whole figure beneath the softness of its silk and lace clothing.

      He was frightened by the effect he had produced, and like most
      men with but little courage, he sought at once to justify himself
      by bullying.

      “You don’t seem to care about going about. Why don’t you drive
      down to Hurlingham with us? And go to the theatre now and then.
      At your time of life you ought to take an interest in things.
      You’re a young woman!”

      The brooding look darkened on her face; he grew nervous.

      “Well, I know nothing about it,” he said; “nobody tells me
      anything. Soames ought to be able to take care of himself. If he
      can’t take care of himself he mustn’t look to me—that’s all.”

      Biting the corner of his forefinger he stole a cold, sharp look
      at his daughter-in-law.

      He encountered her eyes fixed on his own, so dark and deep, that
      he stopped, and broke into a gentle perspiration.

      “Well, I must be going,” he said after a short pause, and a
      minute later rose, with a slight appearance of surprise, as
      though he had expected to be asked to stop. Giving his hand to
      Irene, he allowed himself to be conducted to the door, and let
      out into the street. He would not have a cab, he would walk,
      Irene was to say good-night to Soames for him, and if she wanted
      a little gaiety, well, he would drive her down to Richmond any
      day.

      He walked home, and going upstairs, woke Emily out of the first
      sleep she had had for four and twenty hours, to tell her that it
      was his impression things were in a bad way at Soames’s; on this
      theme he descanted for half an hour, until at last, saying that
      he would not sleep a wink, he turned on his side and instantly
      began to snore.

      In Montpellier Square Soames, who had come from the picture room,
      stood invisible at the top of the stairs, watching Irene sort the
      letters brought by the last post. She turned back into the
      drawing-room; but in a minute came out, and stood as if
      listening. Then she came stealing up the stairs, with a kitten in
      her arms. He could see her face bent over the little beast, which
      was purring against her neck. Why couldn’t she look at him like
      that?

      Suddenly she saw him, and her face changed.

      “Any letters for me?” he said.

      “Three.”

      He stood aside, and without another word she passed on into the
      bedroom.




      CHAPTER VII OLD JOLYON’S PECCADILLO

      Old Jolyon came out of Lord’s cricket ground that same afternoon
      with the intention of going home. He had not reached Hamilton
      Terrace before he changed his mind, and hailing a cab, gave the
      driver an address in Wistaria Avenue. He had taken a resolution.

      June had hardly been at home at all that week; she had given him
      nothing of her company for a long time past, not, in fact, since
      she had become engaged to Bosinney. He never asked her for her
      company. It was not his habit to ask people for things! She had
      just that one idea now—Bosinney and his affairs—and she left him
      stranded in his great house, with a parcel of servants, and not a
      soul to speak to from morning to night. His Club was closed for
      cleaning; his Boards in recess; there was nothing, therefore, to
      take him into the City. June had wanted him to go away; she would
      not go herself, because Bosinney was in London.

      But where was he to go by himself? He could not go abroad alone;
      the sea upset his liver; he hated hotels. Roger went to a
      hydropathic—he was not going to begin that at his time of life,
      those new-fangled places were all humbug!

      With such formulas he clothed to himself the desolation of his
      spirit; the lines down his face deepening, his eyes day by day
      looking forth with the melancholy which sat so strangely on a
      face wont to be strong and serene.

      And so that afternoon he took this journey through St. John’s
      Wood, in the golden-light that sprinkled the rounded green bushes
      of the acacia’s before the little houses, in the summer sunshine
      that seemed holding a revel over the little gardens; and he
      looked about him with interest; for this was a district which no
      Forsyte entered without open disapproval and secret curiosity.

      His cab stopped in front of a small house of that peculiar buff
      colour which implies a long immunity from paint. It had an outer
      gate, and a rustic approach.

      He stepped out, his bearing extremely composed; his massive head,
      with its drooping moustache and wings of white hair, very
      upright, under an excessively large top hat; his glance firm, a
      little angry. He had been driven into this!

      “Mrs. Jolyon Forsyte at home?”

      “Oh, yes sir!—what name shall I say, if you please, sir?”

      Old Jolyon could not help twinkling at the little maid as he gave
      his name. She seemed to him such a funny little toad!

      And he followed her through the dark hall, into a small double,
      drawing-room, where the furniture was covered in chintz, and the
      little maid placed him in a chair.

      “They’re all in the garden, sir; if you’ll kindly take a seat,
      I’ll tell them.”

      Old Jolyon sat down in the chintz-covered chair, and looked
      around him. The whole place seemed to him, as he would have
      expressed it, pokey; there was a certain—he could not tell
      exactly what—air of shabbiness, or rather of making two ends
      meet, about everything. As far as he could see, not a single
      piece of furniture was worth a five-pound note. The walls,
      distempered rather a long time ago, were decorated with
      water-colour sketches; across the ceiling meandered a long crack.

      These little houses were all old, second-rate concerns; he should
      hope the rent was under a hundred a year; it hurt him more than
      he could have said, to think of a Forsyte—his own son living in
      such a place.

      The little maid came back. Would he please to go down into the
      garden?

      Old Jolyon marched out through the French windows. In descending
      the steps he noticed that they wanted painting.

      Young Jolyon, his wife, his two children, and his dog Balthasar,
      were all out there under a pear-tree.

      This walk towards them was the most courageous act of old
      Jolyon’s life; but no muscle of his face moved, no nervous
      gesture betrayed him. He kept his deep-set eyes steadily on the
      enemy.

      In those two minutes he demonstrated to perfection all that
      unconscious soundness, balance, and vitality of fibre that made,
      of him and so many others of his class the core of the nation. In
      the unostentatious conduct of their own affairs, to the neglect
      of everything else, they typified the essential individualism,
      born in the Briton from the natural isolation of his country’s
      life.

      The dog Balthasar sniffed round the edges of his trousers; this
      friendly and cynical mongrel—offspring of a liaison between a
      Russian poodle and a fox-terrier—had a nose for the unusual.

      The strange greetings over, old Jolyon seated himself in a wicker
      chair, and his two grandchildren, one on each side of his knees,
      looked at him silently, never having seen so old a man.

      They were unlike, as though recognising the difference set
      between them by the circumstances of their births. Jolly, the
      child of sin, pudgy-faced, with his tow-coloured hair brushed off
      his forehead, and a dimple in his chin, had an air of stubborn
      amiability, and the eyes of a Forsyte; little Holly, the child of
      wedlock, was a dark-skinned, solemn soul, with her mother’s grey
      and wistful eyes.

      The dog Balthasar, having walked round the three small
      flower-beds, to show his extreme contempt for things at large,
      had also taken a seat in front of old Jolyon, and, oscillating a
      tail curled by Nature tightly over his back, was staring up with
      eyes that did not blink.

      Even in the garden, that sense of things being pokey haunted old
      Jolyon; the wicker chair creaked under his weight; the
      garden-beds looked “daverdy”. On the far side, under the
      smut-stained wall, cats had made a path.

      While he and his grandchildren thus regarded each other with the
      peculiar scrutiny, curious yet trustful, that passes between the
      very young and the very old, young Jolyon watched his wife.

      The colour had deepened in her thin, oval face, with its straight
      brows, and large, grey eyes. Her hair, brushed in fine, high
      curves back from her forehead, was going grey, like his own, and
      this greyness made the sudden vivid colour in her cheeks
      painfully pathetic.

      The look on her face, such as he had never seen there before,
      such as she had always hidden from him, was full of secret
      resentments, and longings, and fears. Her eyes, under their
      twitching brows, stared painfully. And she was silent.

      Jolly alone sustained the conversation; he had many possessions,
      and was anxious that his unknown friend with extremely large
      moustaches, and hands all covered with blue veins, who sat with
      legs crossed like his own father (a habit he was himself trying
      to acquire), should know it; but being a Forsyte, though not yet
      quite eight years old, he made no mention of the thing at the
      moment dearest to his heart—a camp of soldiers in a shop-window,
      which his father had promised to buy. No doubt it seemed to him
      too precious; a tempting of Providence to mention it yet.

      And the sunlight played through the leaves on that little party
      of the three generations grouped tranquilly under the pear-tree,
      which had long borne no fruit.

      Old Jolyon’s furrowed face was reddening patchily, as old men’s
      faces redden in the sun. He took one of Jolly’s hands in his own;
      the boy climbed on to his knee; and little Holly, mesmerized by
      this sight, crept up to them; the sound of the dog Balthasar’s
      scratching arose rhythmically.

      Suddenly young Mrs. Jolyon got up and hurried indoors. A minute
      later her husband muttered an excuse, and followed. Old Jolyon
      was left alone with his grandchildren.

      And Nature with her quaint irony began working in him one of her
      strange revolutions, following her cyclic laws into the depths of
      his heart. And that tenderness for little children, that passion
      for the beginnings of life which had once made him forsake his
      son and follow June, now worked in him to forsake June and follow
      these littler things. Youth, like a flame, burned ever in his
      breast, and to youth he turned, to the round little limbs, so
      reckless, that wanted care, to the small round faces so
      unreasonably solemn or bright, to the treble tongues, and the
      shrill, chuckling laughter, to the insistent tugging hands, and
      the feel of small bodies against his legs, to all that was young
      and young, and once more young. And his eyes grew soft, his
      voice, and thin-veined hands soft, and soft his heart within him.
      And to those small creatures he became at once a place of
      pleasure, a place where they were secure, and could talk and
      laugh and play; till, like sunshine, there radiated from old
      Jolyon’s wicker chair the perfect gaiety of three hearts.

      But with young Jolyon following to his wife’s room it was
      different.

      He found her seated on a chair before her dressing-glass, with
      her hands before her face.

      Her shoulders were shaking with sobs. This passion of hers for
      suffering was mysterious to him. He had been through a hundred of
      these moods; how he had survived them he never knew, for he could
      never believe they _were_ moods, and that the last hour of his
      partnership had not struck.

      In the night she would be sure to throw her arms round his neck
      and say: “Oh! Jo, how I make you suffer!” as she had done a
      hundred times before.

      He reached out his hand, and, unseen, slipped his razor-case into
      his pocket. “I cannot stay here,” he thought, “I must go down!”
      Without a word he left the room, and went back to the lawn.

      Old Jolyon had little Holly on his knee; she had taken possession
      of his watch; Jolly, very red in the face, was trying to show
      that he could stand on his head. The dog Balthasar, as close as
      he might be to the tea-table, had fixed his eyes on the cake.

      Young Jolyon felt a malicious desire to cut their enjoyment
      short.

      What business had his father to come and upset his wife like
      this? It was a shock, after all these years! He ought to have
      known; he ought to have given them warning; but when did a
      Forsyte ever imagine that his conduct could upset anybody! And in
      his thoughts he did old Jolyon wrong.

      He spoke sharply to the children, and told them to go in to their
      tea. Greatly surprised, for they had never heard their father
      speak sharply before, they went off, hand in hand, little Holly
      looking back over her shoulder.

      Young Jolyon poured out the tea.

      “My wife’s not the thing today,” he said, but he knew well enough
      that his father had penetrated the cause of that sudden
      withdrawal, and almost hated the old man for sitting there so
      calmly.

      “You’ve got a nice little house here,” said old Jolyon with a
      shrewd look; “I suppose you’ve taken a lease of it!”

      Young Jolyon nodded.

      “I don’t like the neighbourhood,” said old Jolyon; “a ramshackle
      lot.”

      Young Jolyon replied: “Yes, we’re a ramshackle lot.”

      The silence was now only broken by the sound of the dog
      Balthasar’s scratching.

      Old Jolyon said simply: “I suppose I oughtn’t to have come here,
      Jo; but I get so lonely!”

      At these words young Jolyon got up and put his hand on his
      father’s shoulder.

      In the next house someone was playing over and over again: “La
      Donna è mobile” on an untuned piano; and the little garden had
      fallen into shade, the sun now only reached the wall at the end,
      whereon basked a crouching cat, her yellow eyes turned sleepily
      down on the dog Balthasar. There was a drowsy hum of very distant
      traffic; the creepered trellis round the garden shut out
      everything but sky, and house, and pear-tree, with its top
      branches still gilded by the sun.

      For some time they sat there, talking but little. Then old Jolyon
      rose to go, and not a word was said about his coming again.

      He walked away very sadly. What a poor miserable place; and he
      thought of the great, empty house in Stanhope Gate, fit residence
      for a Forsyte, with its huge billiard-room and drawing-room that
      no one entered from one week’s end to another.

      That woman, whose face he had rather liked, was too thin-skinned
      by half; she gave Jo a bad time he knew! And those sweet
      children! Ah! what a piece of awful folly!

      He walked towards the Edgware Road, between rows of little
      houses, all suggesting to him (erroneously no doubt, but the
      prejudices of a Forsyte are sacred) shady histories of some sort
      or kind.

      Society, forsooth, the chattering hags and jackanapes—had set
      themselves up to pass judgment on _his_ flesh and blood! A parcel
      of old women! He stumped his umbrella on the ground, as though to
      drive it into the heart of that unfortunate body, which had dared
      to ostracize his son and his son’s son, in whom he could have
      lived again!

      He stumped his umbrella fiercely; yet he himself had followed
      Society’s behaviour for fifteen years—had only today been false
      to it!

      He thought of June, and her dead mother, and the whole story,
      with all his old bitterness. A wretched business!

      He was a long time reaching Stanhope Gate, for, with native
      perversity, being extremely tired, he walked the whole way.

      After washing his hands in the lavatory downstairs, he went to
      the dining-room to wait for dinner, the only room he used when
      June was out—it was less lonely so. The evening paper had not yet
      come; he had finished the Times, there was therefore nothing to
      do.

      The room faced the backwater of traffic, and was very silent. He
      disliked dogs, but a dog even would have been company. His gaze,
      travelling round the walls, rested on a picture entitled: “Group
      of Dutch fishing boats at sunset”; the _chef d’œuvre_ of his
      collection. It gave him no pleasure. He closed his eyes. He was
      lonely! He oughtn’t to complain, he knew, but he couldn’t help
      it: He was a poor thing—had always been a poor thing—no pluck!
      Such was his thought.

      The butler came to lay the table for dinner, and seeing his
      master apparently asleep, exercised extreme caution in his
      movements. This bearded man also wore a moustache, which had
      given rise to grave doubts in the minds of many members—of the
      family—, especially those who, like Soames, had been to public
      schools, and were accustomed to niceness in such matters. Could
      he really be considered a butler? Playful spirits alluded to him
      as: “Uncle Jolyon’s Nonconformist”. George, the acknowledged wag,
      had named him: “Sankey.”

      He moved to and fro between the great polished sideboard and the
      great polished table inimitably sleek and soft.

      Old Jolyon watched him, feigning sleep. The fellow was a sneak—he
      had always thought so—who cared about nothing but rattling
      through his work, and getting out to his betting or his woman or
      goodness knew what! A slug! Fat too! And didn’t care a pin about
      his master!

      But then against his will, came one of those moments of
      philosophy which made old Jolyon different from other Forsytes:

      After all why should the man care? He wasn’t paid to care, and
      why expect it? In this world people couldn’t look for affection
      unless they paid for it. It might be different in the next—he
      didn’t know—couldn’t tell! And again he shut his eyes.

      Relentless and stealthy, the butler pursued his labours, taking
      things from the various compartments of the sideboard. His back
      seemed always turned to old Jolyon; thus, he robbed his
      operations of the unseemliness of being carried on in his
      master’s presence; now and then he furtively breathed on the
      silver, and wiped it with a piece of chamois leather. He appeared
      to pore over the quantities of wine in the decanters, which he
      carried carefully and rather high, letting his head droop over
      them protectingly. When he had finished, he stood for over a
      minute watching his master, and in his greenish eyes there was a
      look of contempt:

      After all, this master of his was an old buffer, who hadn’t much
      left in him!

      Soft as a tom-cat, he crossed the room to press the bell. His
      orders were “dinner at seven.” What if his master were asleep; he
      would soon have him out of that; there was the night to sleep in!
      He had himself to think of, for he was due at his Club at
      half-past eight!

      In answer to the ring, appeared a page boy with a silver soup
      tureen. The butler took it from his hands and placed it on the
      table, then, standing by the open door, as though about to usher
      company into the room, he said in a solemn voice:

      “Dinner is on the table, sir!”

      Slowly old Jolyon got up out of his chair, and sat down at the
      table to eat his dinner.




      CHAPTER VIII PLANS OF THE HOUSE

      Forsytes, as is generally admitted, have shells, like that
      extremely useful little animal which is made into Turkish
      delight, in other words, they are never seen, or if seen would
      not be recognised, without habitats, composed of circumstance,
      property, acquaintances, and wives, which seem to move along with
      them in their passage through a world composed of thousands of
      other Forsytes with their habitats. Without a habitat a Forsyte
