wand, very powerful, and in the wrong hands ... well, 
if I’d known what that wand was going out into the 
world to do. ...” 

He shook his head and then, to Harry’s relief, spotted 
Hagrid. 

“Rubeus! Rubeus Hagrid! How nice to see you again. 

... Oak, sixteen inches, rather bendy, wasn’t it?” 

“It was, sir, yes,” said Hagrid. 

“Good wand, that one. But I suppose they snapped it 
in half when you got expelled?” said Mr. Ollivander, 
suddenly stern. 

“Er — yes, they did, yes,” said Hagrid, shuffling his 
feet. “I’ve still got the pieces, though,” he added 
brightly. 

“But you don’t use them?” said Mr. Ollivander 
sharply. 

“Oh, no, sir,” said Hagrid quickly. Harry noticed he 
gripped his pink umbrella very tightly as he spoke. 

“Hmmm,” said Mr. Ollivander, giving Hagrid a 
piercing look. “Well, now — Mr. Potter. Let me see.” 

Page | 93 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




He pulled a long tape measure with silver markings 
out of his pocket. “Which is your wand arm?” 

“Er — well, I’m right-handed,” said Harry. 

“Hold out your arm. That’s it.” He measured Harry 
from shoulder to finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder 
to floor, knee to armpit and round his head. As he 
measured, he said, “Every Ollivander wand has a core 
of a powerful magical substance, Mr. Potter. We use 
unicorn hairs, phoenix tail feathers, and the 
heartstrings of dragons. No two Ollivander wands are 
the same, just as no two unicorns, dragons, or 
phoenixes are quite the same. And of course, you will 
never get such good results with another wizard’s 
wand.” 

Harry suddenly realized that the tape measure, which 
was measuring between his nostrils, was doing this 
on its own. Mr. Ollivander was flitting around the 
shelves, taking down boxes. 

“That will do,” he said, and the tape measure 
crumpled into a heap on the floor. “Right then, Mr. 
Potter. Try this one. Beech-wood and dragon 
heartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. Just take 
it and give it a wave.” 

Harry took the wand and (feeling foolish) waved it 
around a bit, but Mr. Ollivander snatched it out of his 
hand almost at once. 

“Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inches. Quite 
whippy. Try — ” 

Harry tried — but he had hardly raised the wand 
when it, too, was snatched back by Mr. Ollivander. 



Page | 94 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“No, no — here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a 
half inches, springy. Go on, go on, try it out.” 

Harry tried. And tried. He had no idea what Mr. 
Ollivander was waiting for. The pile of tried wands 
was mounting higher and higher on the spindly chair, 
but the more wands Mr. Ollivander pulled from the 
shelves, the happier he seemed to become. 

“Tricky customer, eh? Not to worry, well find the 
perfect match here somewhere — I wonder, now — 
yes, why not — unusual combination — holly and 
phoenix feather, eleven inches, nice and supple.” 

Harry took the wand. He felt a sudden warmth in his 
fingers. He raised the wand above his head, brought it 
swishing down through the dusty air and a stream of 
red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework, 
throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Hagrid 
whooped and clapped and Mr. Ollivander cried, “Oh, 
bravo! Yes, indeed, oh, very good. Well, well, well ... 
how curious ... how very curious ...” 

He put Harry’s wand back into its box and wrapped it 
in brown paper, still muttering, “Curious . . . curious 



“Sorry,” said Harry, “but what’s curious?” 

Mr. Ollivander fixed Harry with his pale stare. 

“I remember every wand I’ve ever sold, Mr. Potter. 
Every single wand. It so happens that the phoenix 
whose tail feather is in your wand, gave another 
feather — just one other. It is very curious indeed 
that you should be destined for this wand when its 
brother — why, its brother gave you that scar.” 



Harry swallowed. 

Page | 95 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed 
how these things happen. The wand chooses the 
wizard, remember. ... I think we must expect great 
things from you, Mr. Potter. ... After all, He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named did great things — terrible, yes, 
but great.” 

Harry shivered. He wasn’t sure he liked Mr. 

Ollivander too much. He paid seven gold Galleons for 
his wand, and Mr. Ollivander bowed them from his 
shop. 

The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Harry 
and Hagrid made their way back down Diagon Alley, 
back through the wall, back through the Leaky 
Cauldron, now empty. Harry didn’t speak at all as 
they walked down the road; he didn’t even notice how 
much people were gawking at them on the 
Underground, laden as they were with all their funny- 
shaped packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its 
cage on Harry’s lap. Up another escalator, out into 
Paddington station; Harry only realized where they 
were when Hagrid tapped him on the shoulder. 

“Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves,” he 
said. 

He bought Harry a hamburger and they sat down on 
plastic seats to eat them. Harry kept looking around. 
Everything looked so strange, somehow. 

“You all right, Harry? Yer very quiet,” said Hagrid. 

Harry wasn’t sure he could explain. He’d just had the 
best birthday of his life — and yet — he chewed his 
hamburger, trying to find the words. 

“Everyone thinks I’m special,” he said at last. “All 
those people in the Leaky Cauldron, Professor 

Page | 96 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Quirrell, Mr. Ollivander ... but I don’t know anything 
about magic at all. How can they expect great things? 
I’m famous and I can’t even remember what I’m 
famous for. I don’t know what happened when Vol-, 
sorry — I mean, the night my parents died.” 

Hagrid leaned across the table. Behind the wild beard 
and eyebrows he wore a very kind smile. 

“Don’ you worry, Harry. You’ll learn fast enough. 
Everyone starts at the beginning at Hogwarts, you’ll 
be just fine. Just be yerself. I know it’s hard. Yeh’ve 
been singled out, an’ that’s always hard. But yeh’ll 
have a great time at Hogwarts — I did — still do, 
’smatter of fact.” 

Hagrid helped Harry on to the train that would take 
him back to the Dursleys, then handed him an 
envelope. 

“Yer ticket fer Hogwarts,” he said. “First o’ September 
— King’s Cross — it’s all on yer ticket. Any problems 
with the Dursleys, send me a letter with yer owl, she’ll 
know where to find me. ... See yeh soon, Harry.” 

The train pulled out of the station. Harry wanted to 
watch Hagrid until he was out of sight; he rose in his 
seat and pressed his nose against the window, but he 
blinked and Hagrid had gone. 



Page | 97 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 







THE JOURNEY FROM PLATFORM 
NINE AND THREE-QUARTERS 

Harry’s last month with the Dursleys wasn’t fun. 
True, Dudley was now so scared of Harry he wouldn’t 
stay in the same room, while Aunt Petunia and Uncle 
Vernon didn’t shut Harry in his cupboard, force him 
to do anything, or shout at him — in fact, they didn’t 
speak to him at all. Half terrified, half furious, they 
acted as though any chair with Harry in it were 
empty. Although this was an improvement in many 
ways, it did become a bit depressing after a while. 

Harry kept to his room, with his new owl for 
company. He had decided to call her Hedwig, a name 
he had found in A History of Magic. His school books 
were very interesting. He lay on his bed reading late 
into the night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the 
open window as she pleased. It was lucky that Aunt 
Petunia didn’t come in to vacuum anymore, because 
Hedwig kept bringing back dead mice. Every night 
before he went to sleep, Harry ticked off another day 



Page | 98 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



on the piece of paper he had pinned to the wall, 
counting down to September the first. 

On the last day of August he thought he’d better 
speak to his aunt and uncle about getting to King’s 
Cross station the next day, so he went down to the 
living room where they were watching a quiz show on 
television. He cleared his throat to let them know he 
was there, and Dudley screamed and ran from the 
room. 

“Er — Uncle Vernon?” 

Uncle Vernon grunted to show he was listening. 

“Er — I need to be at King’s Cross tomorrow to — to 
go to Hogwarts.” 

Uncle Vernon grunted again. 

“Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?” 

Grunt. Harry supposed that meant yes. 

“Thank you.” 

He was about to go back upstairs when Uncle Vernon 
actually spoke. 

“Funny way to get to a wizards’ school, the train. 
Magic carpets all got punctures, have they?” 

Harry didn’t say anything. 

“Where is this school, anyway?” 

“I don’t know,” said Harry, realizing this for the first 
time. He pulled the ticket Hagrid had given him out of 
his pocket. 

Page | 99 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“I just take the train from platform nine and three- 
quarters at eleven o’clock,” he read. 

His aunt and uncle stared. 

“Platform what?” 

“Nine and three-quarters.” 

“Don’t talk rubbish,” said Uncle Vernon. “There is no 
platform nine and three-quarters.” 

“It’s on my ticket.” 

“Barking,” said Uncle Vernon, “howling mad, the lot of 
them. You 11 see. You just wait. All right, we’ll take 
you to King’s Cross. We’re going up to London 
tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn’t bother.” 

“Why are you going to London?” Harry asked, trying 
to keep things friendly. 

“Taking Dudley to the hospital,” growled Uncle 
Vernon. “Got to have that ruddy tail removed before 
he goes to Smeltings.” 

Harry woke at five o’clock the next morning and was 
too excited and nervous to go back to sleep. He got up 
and pulled on his jeans because he didn’t want to 
walk into the station in his wizard’s robes — he’d 
change on the train. He checked his Hogwarts list yet 
again to make sure he had everything he needed, saw 
that Hedwig was shut safely in her cage, and then 
paced the room, waiting for the Dursleys to get up. 
Two hours later, Harry’s huge, heavy trunk had been 
loaded into the Dursleys’ car, Aunt Petunia had 
talked Dudley into sitting next to Harry, and they had 
set off. 



Page | 100 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




They reached King’s Cross at half past ten. Uncle 
Vernon dumped Harry’s trunk onto a cart and 
wheeled it into the station for him. Harry thought this 
was strangely kind until Uncle Vernon stopped dead, 
facing the platforms with a nasty grin on his face. 

“Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine — platform 
ten. Your platform should be somewhere in the 
middle, but they don’t seem to have built it yet, do 
they?” 

He was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic 
number nine over one platform and a big plastic 
number ten over the one next to it, and in the middle, 
nothing at all. 

“Have a good term,” said Uncle Vernon with an even 
nastier smile. He left without another word. Harry 
turned and saw the Dursleys drive away. All three of 
them were laughing. Harry’s mouth went rather dry. 
What on earth was he going to do? He was starting to 
attract a lot of funny looks, because of Hedwig. He’d 
have to ask someone. 

He stopped a passing guard, but didn’t dare mention 
platform nine and three-quarters. The guard had 
never heard of Hogwarts and when Harry couldn’t 
even tell him what part of the country it was in, he 
started to get annoyed, as though Harry was being 
stupid on purpose. Getting desperate, Harry asked for 
the train that left at eleven o’clock, but the guard said 
there wasn’t one. In the end the guard strode away, 
muttering about time wasters. Harry was now trying 
hard not to panic. According to the large clock over 
the arrivals board, he had ten minutes left to get on 
the train to Hogwarts and he had no idea how to do it; 
he was stranded in the middle of a station with a 
trunk he could hardly lift, a pocket full of wizard 
money, and a large owl. 

Page | 101 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid must have forgotten to tell him something you 
had to do, like tapping the third brick on the left to 
get into Diagon Alley. He wondered if he should get 
out his wand and start tapping the ticket inspector’s 
stand between platforms nine and ten. 

At that moment a group of people passed just behind 
him and he caught a few words of what they were 
saying. 

“ — packed with Muggles, of course — ” 

Harry swung round. The speaker was a plump 
woman who was talking to four boys, all with flaming 
red hair. Each of them was pushing a trunk like 
Harry’s in front of him — and they had an owl. 

Heart hammering, Harry pushed his cart after them. 
They stopped and so did he, just near enough to hear 
what they were saying. 

“Now, what’s the platform number?” said the boys’ 
mother. 

“Nine and three-quarters!” piped a small girl, also red- 
headed, who was holding her hand, “Mom, can’t I go 



“You’re not old enough, Ginny, now be quiet. All right, 
Percy, you go first.” 

What looked like the oldest boy marched toward 
platforms nine and ten. Harry watched, careful not to 
blink in case he missed it — but just as the boy 
reached the dividing barrier between the two 
platforms, a large crowd of tourists came swarming in 
front of him and by the time the last backpack had 
cleared away, the boy had vanished. 



Page | 102 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Fred, you next,” the plump woman said. 



“I’m not Fred, I’m George,” said the boy. “Honestly, 
woman, you call yourself our mother? Can’t you tell 
I’m George?” 

“Sorry, George, dear.” 

“Only joking, I am Fred,” said the boy, and off he 
went. His twin called after him to hurry up, and he 
must have done so, because a second later, he had 
gone — but how had he done it? 

Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the 
barrier — he was almost there — and then, quite 
suddenly, he wasn’t anywhere. 

There was nothing else for it. 

“Excuse me,” Harry said to the plump woman. 

“Hello, dear,” she said. “First time at Hogwarts? Ron’s 
new, too.” 

She pointed at the last and youngest of her sons. He 
was tall, thin, and gangling, with freckles, big hands 
and feet, and a long nose. 

“Yes,” said Harry. “The thing is — the thing is, I don’t 
know how to — ” 

“How to get onto the platform?” she said kindly, and 
Harry nodded. 

“Not to worry,” she said. “All you have to do is walk 
straight at the barrier between platforms nine and 
ten. Don’t stop and don’t be scared you’ll crash into 
it, that’s very important. Best do it at a bit of a run if 
you’re nervous. Go on, go now before Ron.” 

Page | 103 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — okay,” said Harry. 

He pushed his trolley around and stared at the 
barrier. It looked very solid. 

He started to walk toward it. People jostled him on 
their way to platforms nine and ten. Harry walked 
more quickly. He was going to smash right into that 
barrier and then he’d be in trouble — leaning forward 
on his cart, he broke into a heavy run — the barrier 
was coming nearer and nearer — he wouldn’t be able 
to stop — the cart was out of control — he was a foot 
away — he closed his eyes ready for the crash — 

It didn’t come ... he kept on running ... he opened his 
eyes. 

A scarlet steam engine was waiting next to a platform 
packed with people. A sign overhead said Hogwarts 
Express, eleven o’clock. Harry looked behind him and 
saw a wrought-iron archway where the barrier had 
been, with the words Platform Nine and Three- 
Quarters on it. He had done it. 

Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the 
chattering crowd, while cats of every color wound 
here and there between their legs. Owls hooted to one 
another in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble 
and the scraping of heavy trunks. 

The first few carriages were already packed with 
students, some hanging out of the window to talk to 
their families, some fighting over seats. Harry pushed 
his cart off down the platform in search of an empty 
seat. He passed a round-faced boy who was saying, 
“Gran, I’ve lost my toad again.” 

“Oh, Neville,” he heard the old woman sigh. 



Page | 104 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




A boy with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small 
crowd. 



“Give us a look, Lee, go on.” 

The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms, and the 
people around him shrieked and yelled as something 
inside poked out a long, hairy leg. 

Harry pressed on through the crowd until he found 
an empty compartment near the end of the train. He 
put Hedwig inside first and then started to shove and 
heave his trunk toward the train door. He tried to lift 
it up the steps but could hardly raise one end and 
twice he dropped it painfully on his foot. 

“Want a hand?” It was one of the red-haired twins 
he’d followed through the barrier. 

“Yes, please,” Harry panted. 

“Oy, Fred! C’mere and help!” 

With the twins’ help, Harry’s trunk was at last tucked 
away in a corner of the compartment. 

“Thanks,” said Harry, pushing his sweaty hair out of 
his eyes. 

“What’s that?” said one of the twins suddenly, 
pointing at Harry’s lightning scar. 

“Blimey,” said the other twin. “Are you — ?” 

“He is,” said the first twin. “Aren’t you?” he added to 
Harry. 

“What?” said Harry. 

Page | 105 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“ Harry Potter,” chorused the twins. 

“Oh, him,” said Harry. “I mean, yes, I am.” 

The two boys gawked at him, and Harry felt himself 
turning red. Then, to his relief, a voice came floating 
in through the train’s open door. 

“Fred? George? Are you there?” 

“Coming, Mom.” 

With a last look at Harry, the twins hopped off the 
train. 

Harry sat down next to the window where, half 
hidden, he could watch the red-haired family on the 
platform and hear what they were saying. Their 
mother had just taken out her handkerchief. 

“Ron, you’ve got something on your nose.” 

The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way, but she 
grabbed him and began rubbing the end of his nose. 

“Mom — geroff.” He wriggled free. 

“Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on his nosie?” 
said one of the twins. 

“Shut up,” said Ron. 

“Where’s Percy?” said their mother. 

“He’s coming now.” 

The oldest boy came striding into sight. He had 
already changed into his billowing black Hogwarts 



Page | 106 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




robes, and Harry noticed a shiny red and gold badge 
on his chest with the letter P on it. 

“Can’t stay long, Mother,” he said. “I’m up front, the 
prefects have got two compartments to themselves — ” 

“Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?” said one of the twins, 
with an air of great surprise. “You should have said 
something, we had no idea.” 

“Hang on, I think I remember him saying something 
about it,” said the other twin. “Once — ” 

“Or twice — ” 

“A minute — ” 

“All summer — ” 

“Oh, shut up,” said Percy the Prefect. 

“How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?” said one 
of the twins. 

“Because he’s a prefect,” said their mother fondly. “All 
right, dear, well, have a good term — send me an owl 
when you get there.” 

She kissed Percy on the cheek and he left. Then she 
turned to the twins. 

“Now, you two — this year, you behave yourselves. If I 
get one more owl telling me you’ve — you’ve blown up 
a toilet or — ” 

“Blown up a toilet? We’ve never blown up a toilet.” 
“Great idea though, thanks, Mom.” 



Page | 107 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s not funny. And look after Ron.” 

“Don’t worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us.” 

“Shut up,” said Ron again. He was almost as tall as 
the twins already and his nose was still pink where 
his mother had rubbed it. 

“Hey, Mom, guess what? Guess who we just met on 
the train?” 

Harry leaned back quickly so they couldn’t see him 
looking. 

“You know that black-haired boy who was near us in 
the station? Know who he is?” 

“Who?” 

“ Harry Potted” 

Harry heard the little girl’s voice. 

“Oh, Mom, can I go on the train and see him, Mom, 
oh please. ...” 

“You’ve already seen him, Ginny, and the poor boy 
isn’t something you goggle at in a zoo. Is he really, 
Fred? How do you know?” 

“Asked him. Saw his scar. It’s really there — like 
lightning.” 

“Poor dear — no wonder he was alone, I wondered. He 
was ever so polite when he asked how to get onto the 
platform.” 

“Never mind that, do you think he remembers what 
You-Know-Who looks like?” 

Page | 108 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Their mother suddenly became very stern. 



“I forbid you to ask him, Fred. No, don’t you dare. As 
though he needs reminding of that on his first day at 
school.” 

“All right, keep your hair on.” 

A whistle sounded. 

“Hurry up!” their mother said, and the three boys 
clambered onto the train. They leaned out of the 
window for her to kiss them good-bye, and their 
younger sister began to cry. 

“Don’t, Ginny, we’ll send you loads of owls.” 

“Well send you a Hogwarts toilet seat.” 

“ Georg e\” 

“Only joking, Mom.” 

The train began to move. Harry saw the boys’ mother 
waving and their sister, half laughing, half crying, 
running to keep up with the train until it gathered too 
much speed, then she fell back and waved. 

Harry watched the girl and her mother disappear as 
the train rounded the corner. Houses flashed past the 
window. Harry felt a great leap of excitement. He 
didn’t know what he was going to — but it had to be 
better than what he was leaving behind. 

The door of the compartment slid open and the 
youngest redheaded boy came in. 

“Anyone sitting there?” he asked, pointing at the seat 
opposite Harry. “Everywhere else is full.” 

Page | 109 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry shook his head and the boy sat down. He 
glanced at Harry and then looked quickly out of the 
window, pretending he hadn’t looked. Harry saw he 
still had a black mark on his nose. 

“Hey, Ron.” 

The twins were back. 

“Listen, we’re going down the middle of the train — 

Lee Jordan’s got a giant tarantula down there.” 

“Right,” mumbled Ron. 

“Harry,” said the other twin, “did we introduce 
ourselves? Fred and George Weasley. And this is Ron, 
our brother. See you later, then.” 

“Bye,” said Harry and Ron. The twins slid the 
compartment door shut behind them. 

“Are you really Harry Potter?” Ron blurted out. 

Harry nodded. 

“Oh — well, I thought it might be one of Fred and 
George’s jokes,” said Ron. “And have you really got — 
you know ...” 

He pointed at Harry’s forehead. 

Harry pulled back his bangs to show the lightning 
scar. Ron stared. 

“So that’s where You-Know-Who — ?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, “but I can’t remember it.” 

“Nothing?” said Ron eagerly. 

Page | 110 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Well — I remember a lot of green light, but nothing 
else.” 



“Wow,” said Ron. He sat and stared at Harry for a few 
moments, then, as though he had suddenly realized 
what he was doing, he looked quickly out of the 
window again. 

“Are all your family wizards?” asked Harry, who found 
Ron just as interesting as Ron found him. 

“Er — yes, I think so,” said Ron. “I think Mom’s got a 
second cousin who’s an accountant, but we never talk 
about him.” 

“So you must know loads of magic already.” 

The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding 
families the pale boy in Diagon Alley had talked 
about. 

“I heard you went to live with Muggles,” said Ron. 
“What are they like?” 

“Horrible — well, not all of them. My aunt and uncle 
and cousin are, though. Wish I’d had three wizard 
brothers.” 

“Five,” said Ron. For some reason, he was looking 
gloomy. “I’m the sixth in our family to go to Hogwarts. 
You could say I’ve got a lot to live up to. Bill and 
Charlie have already left — Bill was head boy and 
Charlie was captain of Quidditch. Now Percy’s a 
prefect. Fred and George mess around a lot, but they 
still get really good marks and everyone thinks they’re 
really funny. Everyone expects me to do as well as the 
others, but if I do, it’s no big deal, because they did it 
first. You never get anything new, either, with five 

Page | 111 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




brothers. I’ve got Bill’s old robes, Charlie’s old wand, 
and Percy’s old rat.” 

Ron reached inside his jacket and pulled out a fat 
gray rat, which was asleep. 

“His name’s Scabbers and he’s useless, he hardly ever 
wakes up. Percy got an owl from my dad for being 
made a prefect, but they couldn’t aff — I mean, I got 
Scabbers instead.” 

Ron’s ears went pink. He seemed to think he’d said 
too much, because he went back to staring out of the 
window. 

Harry didn’t think there was anything wrong with not 
being able to afford an owl. After all, he’d never had 
any money in his life until a month ago, and he told 
Ron so, all about having to wear Dudley’s old clothes 
and never getting proper birthday presents. This 
seemed to cheer Ron up. 

"... and until Hagrid told me, I didn’t know anything 
about being a wizard or about my parents or 
Voldemort — ” 

Ron gasped. 

“What?” said Harry. 

“ You said You-Know-Who’s name\” said Ron, sounding 
both shocked and impressed. “I’d have thought you, 
of all people — ” 

“I’m not trying to be brave or anything, saying the 
name,” said Harry, “I just never knew you shouldn’t. 
See what I mean? I’ve got loads to learn. ... I bet,” he 
added, voicing for the first time something that had 



Page | 112 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




been worrying him a lot lately, “I bet I’m the worst in 
the class.” 

“You won’t be. There’s loads of people who come from 
Muggle families and they learn quick enough.” 

While they had been talking, the train had carried 
them out of London. Now they were speeding past 
fields full of cows and sheep. They were quiet for a 
time, watching the fields and lanes flick past. 

Around half past twelve there was a great clattering 
outside in the corridor and a smiling, dimpled woman 
slid back their door and said, “Anything off the cart, 
dears?” 

Harry, who hadn’t had any breakfast, leapt to his feet, 
but Ron’s ears went pink again and he muttered that 
he’d brought sandwiches. Harry went out into the 
corridor. 

He had never had any money for candy with the 
Dursleys, and now that he had pockets rattling with 
gold and silver he was ready to buy as many Mars 
Bars as he could carry — but the woman didn’t have 
Mars Bars. What she did have were Bertie Bott’s 
Every Flavor Beans, Drooble’s Best Blowing Gum, 
Chocolate Frogs, Pumpkin Pasties, Cauldron Cakes, 
Licorice Wands, and a number of other strange things 
Harry had never seen in his life. Not wanting to miss 
anything, he got some of everything and paid the 
woman eleven silver Sickles and seven bronze Knuts. 

Ron stared as Harry brought it all back in to the 
compartment and tipped it onto an empty seat. 

“Hungry, are you?” 



Page | 113 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Starving,” said Harry, taking a large bite out of a 
pumpkin pasty. 

Ron had taken out a lumpy package and unwrapped 
it. There were four sandwiches inside. He pulled one 
of them apart and said, “She always forgets I don’t 
like corned beef.” 

“Swap you for one of these,” said Harry, holding up a 
pasty. “Go on — ” 

“You don’t want this, it’s all dry,” said Ron. “She 
hasn’t got much time,” he added quickly, “you know, 
with five of us.” 

“Go on, have a pasty,” said Harry, who had never had 
anything to share before or, indeed, anyone to share 
it with. It was a nice feeling, sitting there with Ron, 
eating their way through all Harry’s pasties, cakes, 
and candies (the sandwiches lay forgotten). 

“What are these?” Harry asked Ron, holding up a 
pack of Chocolate Frogs. “They’re not really frogs, are 
they?” He was starting to feel that nothing would 
surprise him. 

“No,” said Ron. “But see what the card is. I’m missing 
Agrippa.” 

“What?” 

“Oh, of course, you wouldn’t know — Chocolate Frogs 
have cards inside them, you know, to collect — 
famous witches and wizards. I’ve got about five 
hundred, but I haven’t got Agrippa or Ptolemy.” 

Harry unwrapped his Chocolate Frog and picked up 
the card. It showed a man’s face. He wore half-moon 
glasses, had a long, crooked nose, and flowing silver 

Page | 114 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




hair, beard, and mustache. Underneath the picture 
was the name Albus Dumbledore. 



“So this is Dumbledore!” said Harry. 

“Don’t tell me you’d never heard of Dumbledore!” said 
Ron. “Can I have a frog? I might get Agrippa — thanks 



Harry turned over his card and read: 

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE 

CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS 

Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern 
times, Dumbledore is particularly famous for his 
defeat of the Dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the 
discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his 
work on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas Flamel. 
Professor Dumbledore enjoys chamber music and ten 
