okay? He can make up his own mind.” 

Harry’s heart beat very fast as he left the classroom. 
He was halfway along the corridor outside when he 
heard the unmistakable sounds of a diversion going 
off in the distance. There were screams and yells 
reverberating from somewhere above them. People 
exiting the classrooms all around Harry were stopping 
in their tracks and looking up at the ceiling fearfully 



Then Umbridge came pelting out of her classroom as 
fast as her short legs would carry her. Pulling out her 
wand, she hurried off in the opposite direction: It was 
now or never. 



Page | 852Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry — please!” said Hermione weakly. 



But he had made up his mind — hitching his bag 
more securely onto his shoulder he set off at a run, 
weaving in and out of students now hurrying in the 
opposite direction, off to see what all the fuss was 
about in the east wing... 

Harry reached the corridor where Umbridge’s office 
was situated and found it deserted. Dashing behind a 
large suit of armor whose helmet creaked around to 
watch him, he pulled open his bag, seized Sirius’s 
knife, and donned the Invisibility Cloak. He then 
crept slowly and carefully back out from behind the 
suit of armor and along the corridor until he reached 
Umbridge’s door. 

He inserted the blade of the magical knife into the 
crack around it and moved it gently up and down, 
then withdrew it. There was a tiny click, and the door 
swung open. He ducked inside the office, closed the 
door quickly behind him, and looked around. 

It was empty; nothing was moving except the horrible 
kittens on the plates continuing to frolic on the wall 
above the confiscated broomsticks. 

Harry pulled off his cloak and, striding over to the 
fireplace, found what he was looking for within 
seconds: a small box containing glittering Floo 
powder. 

He crouched down in front of the empty grate, his 
hands shaking. He had never done this before, 
though he thought he knew how it must work. 
Sticking his head into the fireplace, he took a large 
pinch of powder and dropped it onto the logs stacked 
neatly beneath him. They exploded at once into 
emerald-green flames. 

Page | 853Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Number twelve, Grimmauld Place!” Harry said loudly 
and clearly. 



It was one of the most curious sensations he had ever 
experienced; he had traveled by Floo powder before, of 
course, but then it had been his entire body that had 
spun around and around in the flames through the 
network of Wizarding fireplaces that stretched over 
the country: This time, his knees remained firm upon 
the cold floor of Umbridge’s office, and only his head 
hurtled through the emerald fire... 

And then, abruptly as it had begun, the spinning 
stopped. Feeling rather sick and as though he was 
wearing an exceptionally hot muffler around his head, 
Harry opened his eyes to find that he was looking up 
out of the kitchen fireplace at the long, wooden table, 
where a man sat poring over a piece of parchment. 

“Sirius?” 

The man jumped and looked around. It was not 
Sirius, but Lupin. 

“Harry!” he said, looking thoroughly shocked. “What 
are you — what’s happened, is everything all right?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “I just wondered — I mean, I just 
fancied a — a chat with Sirius.” 

“I’ll call him,” said Lupin, getting to his feet, still 
looking perplexed. “He went upstairs to look for 
Kreacher, he seems to be hiding in the attic again...” 

And Harry saw Lupin hurry out of the kitchen. Now 
he was left with nothing to look at but the chair and 
table legs. He wondered why Sirius had never 
mentioned how very uncomfortable it was to speak 
out of the fire — his knees were already objecting 
Page | 854Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




painfully to their prolonged contact with Umbridge’s 
hard stone floor. 



Lupin returned with Sirius at his heels moments 
later. 

“What is it?” said Sirius urgently, sweeping his long 
dark hair out of his eyes and dropping to the ground 
in front of the fire, so that he and Harry were on a 
level; Lupin knelt down too, looking very concerned. 
“Are you all right? Do you need help?” 

“No,” said Harry, “it’s nothing like that... I just wanted 
to talk ... about my dad...” 

They exchanged a look of great surprise, but Harry 
did not have time to feel awkward or embarrassed; his 
knees were becoming sorer by the second, and he 
guessed that five minutes had already passed from 
the start of the diversion — George had only 
guaranteed him twenty. He therefore plunged 
immediately into the story of what he had seen in the 
Pensieve. 

When he had finished, neither Sirius nor Lupin spoke 
for a moment. Then Lupin said quietly, “I wouldn’t 
like you to judge your father on what you saw there, 
Harry. He was only fifteen — ” 

“I’m fifteen!” said Harry heatedly. 

“Look, Harry,” said Sirius placatingly, “James and 
Snape hated each other from the moment they set 
eyes on each other, it was just one of those things, 
you can understand that, can’t you? I think James 
was everything Snape wanted to be — he was 
popular, he was good at Quidditch, good at pretty 
much everything. And Snape was just this little 
oddball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts and 
Page | 855Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




James — whatever else he may have appeared to you, 
Harry — always hated the Dark Arts.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “but he just attacked Snape for no 
good reason, just because — well, just because you 
said you were bored,” he finished with a slightly 
apologetic note in his voice. 

“I’m not proud of it,” said Sirius quickly. 

Lupin looked sideways at Sirius and then said, “Look, 
Harry, what you’ve got to understand is that your 
father and Sirius were the best in the school at 
whatever they did — everyone thought they were the 
height of cool — if they sometimes got a bit carried 
away — ” 

“If we were sometimes arrogant little berks, you 
mean,” said Sirius. 

Lupin smiled. 

“He kept messing up his hair,” said Harry in a pained 
voice. 

Sirius and Lupin laughed. 

“I’d forgotten he used to do that,” said Sirius 
affectionately. 

“Was he playing with the Snitch?” said Lupin eagerly. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, watching uncomprehendingly as 
Sirius and Lupin beamed reminiscently. “Well ... I 
thought he was a bit of an idiot.” 

“Of course he was a bit of an idiot!” said Sirius 
bracingly. “We were all idiots! Well — not Moony so 



Page | 856Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




much,” he said fairly, looking at Lupin, but Lupin 
shook his head. 

“Did I ever tell you to lay off Snape?” he said. “Did I 
ever have the guts to tell you I thought you were out 
of order?” 

“Yeah, well,” said Sirius, “you made us feel ashamed 
of ourselves sometimes... That was something...” 

“And,” said Harry doggedly, determined to say 
everything that was on his mind now he was here, “he 
kept looking over at the girls by the lake, hoping they 
were watching him!” 

“Oh, well, he always made a fool of himself whenever 
Lily was around,” said Sirius, shrugging. “He couldn’t 
stop himself showing off whenever he got near her.” 

“How come she married him?” Harry asked miserably. 
“She hated him!” 

“Nah, she didn’t,” said Sirius. 

“She started going out with him in seventh year,” said 
Lupin. 

“Once James had deflated his head a bit,” said Sirius. 

“And stopped hexing people just for the fun of it,” said 
Lupin. 

“Even Snape?” said Harry. 

“Well,” said Lupin slowly, “Snape was a special case. I 
mean, he never lost an opportunity to curse James, 
so you couldn’t really expect James to take that lying 
down, could you?” 



Page | 857Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“And my mum was okay with that?” 

“She didn’t know too much about it, to tell you the 
truth,” said Sirius. “I mean, James didn’t take Snape 
on dates with her and jinx him in front of her, did 
he?” 

Sirius frowned at Harry, who was still looking 
unconvinced. 

“Look,” he said, “your father was the best friend I ever 
had, and he was a good person. A lot of people are 
idiots at the age of fifteen. He grew out of it.” 

“Yeah, okay,” said Harry heavily. “I just never thought 
I’d feel sorry for Snape.” 

“Now you mention it,” said Lupin, a faint crease 
between his eyebrows, “how did Snape react when he 
found you’d seen all this?” 

“He told me he’d never teach me Occlumency again,” 
said Harry indifferently, “like that’s a big disappoint 



“He WHAT?” shouted Sirius, causing Harry to jump 
and inhale a mouthful of ashes. 

“Are you serious, Harry?” said Lupin quickly. “He’s 
stopped giving you lessons?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, surprised at what he considered a 
great overreaction. “But it’s okay, I don’t care, it’s a 
bit of a relief to tell you the — ” 

“I’m coming up there to have a word with Snape!” said 
Sirius forcefully and he actually made to stand up, 
but Lupin wrenched him back down again. 



Page | 858Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“If anyone’s going to tell Snape it will be me!” he said 
firmly. “But Harry, first of all, you’re to go back to 
Snape and tell him that on no account is he to stop 
giving you lessons — when Dumbledore hears — ” 

“I can’t tell him that, he’d kill me!” said Harry, 
outraged. “You didn’t see him when we got out of the 
Pensieve — ” 

“Harry, there is nothing so important as you learning 
Occlumency!” said Lupin sternly. “Do you understand 
me? Nothing!” 

“Okay, okay,” said Harry, thoroughly discomposed, 
not to mention annoyed. “I’ll ... I’ll try and say 
something to him... But it won’t be ...” 

He fell silent. He could hear distant footsteps. 

“Is that Kreacher coming downstairs?” 

“No,” said Sirius, glancing behind him. “It must be 
somebody your end ...” 

Harry’s heart skipped several beats. 

“I’d better go!” he said hastily and he pulled his head 
backward out of Grimmauld Place’s fire. For a 
moment his head seemed to be revolving on his 
shoulders, and then he found himself kneeling in 
front of Umbridge’s fire with his head firmly back on, 
watching the emerald flames flicker and die. 

“Quickly, quickly!” he heard a wheezy voice mutter 
right outside the office door. “Ah, she’s left it open...” 

Harry dived for the Invisibility Cloak and had just 
managed to pull it back over himself when Filch burst 
into the office. He looked absolutely delighted about 

Page | 859Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




something and was talking to himself feverishly as he 
crossed the room, pulled open a drawer in Umbridge’s 
desk, and began rifling through the papers inside it. 

“Approval for Whipping . . . Approval for Whipping ... I 
can do it at last... They’ve had it coming to them for 
years...” 

He pulled out a piece of parchment, kissed it, then 
shuffled rapidly back out of the door, clutching it to 
his chest. 

Harry leapt to his feet and, making sure that he had 
his bag and the Invisibility Cloak was completely 
covering him, he wrenched open the door and hurried 
out of the office after Filch, who was hobbling along 
faster than Harry had ever seen him go. 

One landing down from Umbridge’s office and Harry 
thought it was safe to become visible again; he pulled 
off the cloak, shoved it in his bag and hurried 
onward. There was a great deal of shouting and 
movement coming from the entrance hall. He ran 
down the marble staircase and found what looked like 
most of the school assembled there. 

It was just like the night when Trelawney had been 
sacked. Students were standing all around the walls 
in a great ring (some of them, Harry noticed, covered 
in a substance that looked very like Stinksap); 
teachers and ghosts were also in the crowd. 

Prominent among the onlookers were members of the 
Inquisitorial Squad, who were all looking 
exceptionally pleased with themselves, and Peeves, 
who was bobbing overhead, gazed down upon Fred 
and George, who stood in the middle of the floor with 
the unmistakable look of two people who had just 
been cornered. 



Page | 860Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“So!” said Umbridge triumphantly, whom Harry 
realized was standing just a few stairs in front of him, 
once more looking down upon her prey. “So . . . you 
think it amusing to turn a school corridor into a 
swamp, do you?” 

“Pretty amusing, yeah,” said Fred, looking back up at 
her without the slightest sign of fear. 

Filch elbowed his way closer to Umbridge, almost 
crying with happiness. 

“I’ve got the form, Headmistress,” he said hoarsely, 
waving the piece of parchment Harry had just seen 
him take from her desk. “I’ve got the form and I’ve got 
the whips waiting... Oh, let me do it now...” 

“Very good, Argus,” she said. “You two,” she went on, 
gazing down at Fred and George, “are about to learn 
what happens to wrongdoers in my school.” 

“You know what?” said Fred. “I don’t think we are.” 

He turned to his twin. 

“George,” said Fred, “I think we’ve outgrown full-time 
education.” 

“Yeah, I’ve been feeling that way myself,” said George 
lightly. 

“Time to test our talents in the real world, d’you 
reckon?” asked Fred. 

“Definitely,” said George. 

And before Umbridge could say a word, they raised 
their wands and said together, “Accio BroomsV’ 



Page | 861Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heard a loud crash somewhere in the distance. 
Looking to his left he ducked just in time — Fred and 
George’s broomsticks, one still trailing the heavy 
chain and iron peg with which Umbridge had fastened 
them to the wall, were hurtling along the corridor 
toward their owners. They turned left, streaked down 
the stairs, and stopped sharply in front of the twins, 
the chain clattering loudly on the flagged stone floor. 

“We won’t be seeing you,” Fred told Professor 
Umbridge, swinging his leg over his broomstick. 

“Yeah, don’t bother to keep in touch,” said George, 
mounting his own. 

Fred looked around at the assembled students, and 
at the silent, watchful crowd. 

“If anyone fancies buying a Portable Swamp, as 
demonstrated upstairs, come to number ninety-three, 
Diagon Alley — Weasleys’ Wizarding Wheezes,” he 
said in a loud voice. “Our new premises!” 

“Special discounts to Hogwarts students who swear 
they’re going to use our products to get rid of this old 
bat,” added George, pointing at Professor Umbridge. 

“STOP THEM!” shrieked Umbridge, but it was too late. 
As the Inquisitorial Squad closed in, Fred and George 
kicked off from the floor, shooting fifteen feet into the 
air, the iron peg swinging dangerously below. Fred 
looked across the hall at the poltergeist bobbing on 
his level above the crowd. 

“Give her hell from us, Peeves.” 

And Peeves, whom Harry had never seen take an 
order from a student before, swept his belled hat from 
his head and sprang to a salute as Fred and George 

Page | 862Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wheeled about to tumultuous applause from the 
students below and sped out of the open front doors 
into the glorious sunset. 



Page | 863Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






GRAWP 

The story of Fred and George’s flight to freedom was 
retold so often over the next few days that Harry 
could tell it would soon become the stuff of Hogwarts 
legend. Within a week, even those who had been 
eyewitnesses were half- convinced that they had seen 
the twins dive-bomb Umbridge on their brooms, 
pelting her with Dungbombs before zooming out of 
the doors. In the immediate aftermath of their 
departure there was a great wave of talk about 
copying them, so that Harry frequently heard 
students saying things like, “Honestly, some days I 
just feel like jumping on my broom and leaving this 
place,” or else, “One more lesson like that and I might 
just do a Weasley...” 

Fred and George had made sure that nobody was 
likely to forget them very soon. For one thing, they 
had not left instructions on how to remove the swamp 
that now filled the corridor on the fifth floor of the 
east wing. Umbridge and Filch had been observed 
trying different means of removing it but without 
success. Eventually the area was roped off and Filch, 
Page | 864Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



gnashing his teeth furiously, was given the task of 
punting students across it to their classrooms. Harry 
was certain that teachers like McGonagall or Flitwick 
could have removed the swamp in an instant, but just 
as in the case of Fred and George’s Wildfire Whiz- 
Bangs, they seemed to prefer to watch Umbridge 
struggle. 

Then there were the two large broom-shaped holes in 
Umbridge ’s office door, through which Fred and 
George’s Cleansweeps had smashed to rejoin their 
masters. Filch fitted a new door and removed Harry’s 
Firebolt to the dungeons where, it was rumored, 
Umbridge had set an armed security troll to guard it. 
However, her troubles were far from over. 

Inspired by Fred and George’s example, a great 
number of students were now vying for the newly 
vacant positions of Troublemakers-in-Chief. In spite 
of the new door, somebody managed to slip a hairy- 
snouted niffler into Umbridge ’s office, which promptly 
tore the place apart in its search for shiny objects, 
leapt on Umbridge on her re-entrance, and tried to 
gnaw the rings off her stubby fingers. Dungbombs 
and Stinkpellets were dropped so frequently in the 
corridors that it became the new fashion for students 
to perform Bubble-Head Charms on themselves 
before leaving lessons, which ensured them a supply 
of fresh clean air, even though it gave them all the 
peculiar appearance of wearing upside-down goldfish 
bowls on their heads. 

Filch prowled the corridors with a horsewhip ready in 
his hands, desperate to catch miscreants, but the 
problem was that there were now so many of them 
that he did not know which way to turn. The 
Inquisitorial Squad were attempting to help him, but 
odd things kept happening to its members. 

Warrington of the Slytherin Quidditch team reported 
Page | 865Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to the hospital wing with a horrible skin complaint 
that made him look as though he had been coated in 
cornflakes. Pansy Parkinson, to Hermione’s delight, 
missed all her lessons the following day, as she had 
sprouted antlers. 

Meanwhile it became clear just how many Skiving 
Snackboxes Fred and George had managed to sell 
before leaving Hogwarts. Umbridge only had to enter 
her classroom for the students assembled there to 
faint, vomit, develop dangerous fevers, or else spout 
blood from both nostrils. Shrieking with rage and 
frustration she attempted to trace the mysterious 
symptoms to their source, but the students told her 
stubbornly they were suffering “Umbridge-itis.” After 
putting four successive classes in detention and 
failing to discover their secret she was forced to give 
up and allow the bleeding, swooning, sweating, and 
vomiting students to leave her classes in droves. 

But not even the users of the Snackboxes could 
compete with that master of chaos, Peeves, who 
seemed to have taken Fred’s parting words deeply to 
heart. Cackling madly, he soared through the school, 
upending tables, bursting out of blackboards, and 
toppling statues and vases. Twice he shut Mrs. Norris 
inside suits of armor, from which she was rescued, 
yowling loudly, by the furious caretaker. He smashed 
lanterns and snuffed out candles, juggled burning 
torches over the heads of screaming students, caused 
neatly stacked piles of parchment to topple into fires 
or out of windows, flooded the second floor when he 
pulled off all the taps in the bathrooms, dropped a 
bag of tarantulas in the middle of the Great Hall 
during breakfast and, whenever he fancied a break, 
spent hours at a time floating along after Umbridge 
and blowing loud raspberries every time she spoke. 



Page | 866Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




None of the staff but Filch seemed to be stirring 
themselves to help her. Indeed, a week after Fred and 
George’s departure Harry witnessed Professor 
McGonagall walking right past Peeves, who was 
determinedly loosening a crystal chandelier, and 
could have sworn he heard her tell the poltergeist out 
of the corner of her mouth, “It unscrews the other 
way.” 

To cap matters, Montague had still not recovered from 
his sojourn in the toilet. He remained confused and 
disorientated and his parents were to be observed one 
Tuesday morning striding up the front drive, looking 
extremely angry. 

“Should we say something?” said Hermione in a 
worried voice, pressing her cheek against the Charms 
window so that she could see Mr. and Mrs. Montague 
marching inside. “About what happened to him? In 
case it helps Madam Pomfrey cure him?” 

“ ’Course not, he’ll recover,” said Ron indifferently. 

“Anyway, more trouble for Umbridge, isn’t it?” said 
Harry in a satisfied voice. 

He and Ron both tapped the teacups they were 
supposed to be charming with their wands. Harry’s 
spouted four very short legs that would not reach the 
desk and wriggled pointlessly in midair. Ron’s grew 
four very thin spindly legs that hoisted the cup off the 
desk with great difficulty, trembled for a few seconds, 
then folded, causing the cup to crack into two. 

“Reparo\” said Hermione quickly, mending Ron’s cup 
with a wave of her wand. “That’s all very well, but 
what if Montague’s permanently injured?” 



Page | 867Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Who cares?” said Ron irritably, while his teacup 
stood drunkenly again, trembling violently at the 
knees. “Montague shouldn’t have tried to take all 
those points from Gryffindor, should he? If you want 
to worry about anyone, Hermione, worry about me!” 

“You?” she said, catching her teacup as it scampered 
happily away across the desk on four sturdy little 
willow-patterned legs and replacing it in front of her. 
“Why should I be worried about you?” 

“When Mum’s next letter finally gets through 
Umbridge’s screening process,” said Ron bitterly, now 
holding his cup up while its frail legs tried feebly to 
support its weight, “I’m going to be in deep trouble. I 
wouldn’t be surprised if she’s sent a Howler again.” 

“But — ” 

“It’ll be my fault Fred and George left, you wait,” said 
Ron darkly. “She’ll say I should’ve stopped them 
leaving, I should’ve grabbed the ends of their brooms 
and hung on or something... Yeah, it’ll be all my 
fault...” 

“Well, if she does say that it’ll be very unfair, you 
couldn’t have done anything! But I’m sure she won’t, I 
mean, if it’s really true they’ve got premises in Diagon 
Alley now, they must have been planning this for 
ages...” 

“Yeah, but that’s another thing, how did they get 
premises?” said Ron, hitting his teacup so hard with 
his wand that its legs collapsed again and it lay 
twitching before him. “It’s a bit dodgy, isn’t it? They’ll 
need loads of Galleons to afford the rent on a place in 
Diagon Alley, she’ll want to know what they’ve been 
up to, to get their hands on that sort of gold...” 



Page | 868Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, yes, that occurred to me too,” said Hermione, 
allowing her teacup to jog in neat little circles around 
Harry’s, whose stubby little legs were still unable to 
touch the desktop. “I’ve been wondering whether 
Mundungus has persuaded them to sell stolen goods 
or something awful...” 

“He hasn’t,” said Harry curtly. 

“How do you know?” said Ron and Hermione together. 

“Because — ” Harry hesitated, but the moment to 
confess finally seemed to have come. There was no 
good to be gained in keeping silent if it meant anyone 
suspected that Fred and George were criminals. 
“Because they got the gold from me. I gave them my 
Triwizard winnings last June.” 

There was a shocked silence, then Hermione’s teacup 
jogged right over the edge of the desk and smashed on 
the floor. 

“Oh, Harry, you didn’t” she said. 

“Yes, I did,” said Harry mutinously. “And I don’t regret 
it either — I didn’t need the gold, and they’ll be great 
at a joke shop...” 

“But this is excellent!” said Ron, looking thrilled. “It’s 
all your fault, Harry — Mum can’t blame me at all! 

Can I tell her?” 

“Yeah, I suppose you’d better,” said Harry dully. “ 
’Specially if she thinks they’re receiving stolen 
cauldrons or something...” 

Hermione said nothing at all for the rest of the lesson, 
but Harry had a shrewd suspicion that her self- 
restraint was bound to crack before long. Sure 

Page | 869Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




enough, once they had left the castle for break and 
were standing around in the weak May sunshine, she 
fixed Harry with a beady eye and opened her mouth 
with a determined air. 

Harry interrupted her before she had even started. 

“It’s no good nagging me, it’s done,” he said firmly. 
“Fred and George have got the gold — spent a good 
bit of it too, by the sounds of it — and I can’t get it 
back from them and I don’t want to. So save your 
breath, Hermione.” 

“I wasn’t going to say anything about Fred and 
George!” she said in an injured voice. 

Ron snorted disbelievingly and Hermione threw him a 
very dirty look. 

“No, I wasn’t!” she said angrily. “As a matter of fact, I 
was going to ask Harry when he’s going to go back to 
Snape and ask for Occlumency lessons again!” 

Harry’s heart sank. Once they had exhausted the 
subject of Fred and George’s dramatic departure, 
which admittedly had taken many hours, Ron and 
Hermione had wanted to hear news of Sirius. As 
Harry had not confided in them the reason he had 
wanted to talk to Sirius in the first place, it had been 
hard to think of things to tell them. He had ended up 
saying to them truthfully that Sirius wanted Harry to 
resume Occlumency lessons. He had been regretting 
this ever since; Hermione would not let the subject 
drop and kept reverting to it when Harry least 
expected it. 

“You can’t tell me you’ve stopped having funny 
dreams,” Hermione said now, “because Ron told me 
last night you were muttering in your sleep again...” 

Page | 870Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry threw Ron a furious look. Ron had the grace to 
look ashamed of himself. 

“You were only muttering a bit,” he mumbled 
apologetically. “Something about ‘just a bit farther.’ ” 

“I dreamed I was watching you lot play Quidditch,” 
Harry lied brutally. “I was trying to get you to stretch 
out a bit farther to grab the Quaffle.” 

Ron’s ears went red. Harry felt a kind of vindictive 
pleasure: He had not, of course, dreamed anything of 
the sort. 

Last night he had once again made the journey along 
the Department of Mysteries corridor. He had passed 
through the circular room, then the room full of 
clicking and dancing light, until he found himself 
again inside that cavernous room full of shelves on 
which were ranged dusty glass spheres... 

He had hurried straight toward row number ninety- 
seven, turned left, and ran along it... It had probably 
been then that he had spoken aloud... Just a bit 
farther . . . for he could feel his conscious self 
struggling to wake . . . and before he had reached the 
end of the row, he had found himself lying in bed 
again, gazing up at the canopy of his four-poster. 

“You are trying to block your mind, aren’t you?” said 
Hermione, looking beadily at Harry. “You are keeping 
going with your Occlumency?” 

“Of course I am,” said Harry, trying to sound as 
though this question was insulting, but not quite 
meeting her eye. The truth was that he was so 
intensely curious about what was hidden in that 
room full of dusty orbs that he was quite keen for the 
dreams to continue. 

Page | 871Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The problem was that with just under a month to go 
until the exams and every free moment devoted to 
studying, his mind seemed saturated with 
information when he went to bed so that he found it 
very difficult to get to sleep at all. When he did, his 
overwrought brain presented him most nights with 
stupid dreams about the exams. He also suspected 
that part of his mind — the part that often spoke in 
Hermione’s voice — now felt guilty on the occasions it 
strayed down that corridor ending in the black door, 
and sought to wake him before he could reach 
journey’s end. 

“You know,” said Ron, whose ears were still flaming 
red, “if Montague doesn’t recover before Slytherin play 
Hufflepuff, we might be in with a chance of winning 
the Cup.” 

“Yeah, I s’pose so,” said Harry, glad of a change of 
subject. 

“I mean, we’ve won one, lost one — if Slytherin lose to 
Hufflepuff next Saturday — ” 

“Yeah, that’s right,” said Harry, losing track of what 
he was agreeing to: Cho Chang had just walked 
across the courtyard, determinedly not looking at 
him. 

The final match of the Quidditch season, Gryffindor 
versus Ravenclaw, was to take place on the last 
weekend of May. Although Slytherin had been 
narrowly defeated by Hufflepuff in their last match, 
Gryffindor was not daring to hope for victory, due 
mainly (though of course nobody said it to him) to 
Ron’s abysmal goalkeeping record. He, however, 
seemed to have found a new optimism. 



Page | 872Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I mean, I can’t get any worse, can I?” he told Harry 
and Hermione grimly over breakfast on the morning 
of the match. “Nothing to lose now, is there?” 

“You know,” said Hermione, as she and Harry walked 
down to the pitch a little later in the midst of a very 
excitable crowd, “I think Ron might do better without 
Fred and George around. They never exactly gave him 
a lot of confidence...” 

Luna Lovegood overtook them with what appeared to 
be a live eagle perched on top of her head. 

“Oh gosh, I forgot!” said Hermione, watching the eagle 
flapping its wings as Luna walked serenely past a 
group of cackling and pointing Slytherins. “Cho will 
be playing, won’t she?” 

Harry, who had not forgotten this, merely grunted. 

They found seats in the topmost row of the stands. It 
was a fine, clear day. Ron could not wish for better, 
and Harry found himself hoping against hope that 
Ron would not give the Slytherins cause for more 
rousing choruses of “Weasley Is Our King.” 

Lee Jordan, who had been very dispirited since Fred 
and George had left, was commentating as usual. As 
the teams zoomed out onto the pitches he named the 
players with something less than his usual gusto. 

"... Bradley ... Davies ... Chang,” he said, and Harry 
felt his stomach perform, less of a back flip, more a 
feeble lurch as Cho walked out onto the pitch, her 
shiny black hair rippling in the slight breeze. He was 
not sure what he wanted to happen anymore, except 
that he could not stand any more rows. Even the 
sight of her chatting animatedly to Roger Davies as 



Page | 873Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




they prepared to mount their brooms caused him only 
a slight twinge of jealousy. 

“And they’re off!” said Lee. “And Davies takes the 
Quaffle immediately, Ravenclaw Captain Davies with 
the Quaffle, he dodges Johnson, he dodges Bell, he 
dodges Spinnet as well... He’s going straight for goal! 
He’s going to shoot — and — and — ” Lee swore very 
loudly. “And he’s scored.” 

Harry and Hermione groaned with the rest of the 
Gryffindors. Predictably, horribly, the Slytherins on 
the other side of the stands began to sing: 

Weasley cannot save a thing, 

He cannot block a single ring . . . 

“Harry,” said a hoarse voice in Harry’s ear. “Hermione 



Harry looked around and saw Hagrid’s enormous 
bearded face sticking between the seats; apparently 
he had squeezed his way all along the row behind, for 
the first and second years he had just passed had a 
ruffled, flattened look about them. For some reason, 
Hagrid was bent double as though anxious not to be 
seen, though he was still at least four feet taller than 
everybody else. 

“Listen,” he whispered, “can yeh come with me? Now? 
While ev’ryone’s watchin’ the match?” 

“Er ... can’t it wait, Hagrid?” asked Harry. “Till the 
match is over? 

“No,” said Hagrid. “No, Harry, it’s gotta be now ... 
while ev’ryone’s lookin’ the other way... Please?” 



Page | 874Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid’s nose was gently dripping blood. His eyes 
were both blackened. Harry had not seen him this 
close up since his return to the school; he looked 
utterly woebegone. 

“ ’Course,” said Harry at once, “ ’course we’ll come...” 

He and Hermione edged back along their row of seats, 
causing much grumbling among the students who 
had to stand up for them. The people in Hagrid’s row 
were not complaining, merely attempting to make 
themselves as small as possible. 

“I ’ppreciate this, you two, I really do,” said Hagrid as 
they reached the stairs. He kept looking around 
nervously as they descended toward the lawn below. 

“I jus’ hope she doesn’ notice us goin’...” 

