
“Thank you, Headmaster.” 

Lupin picked up his old suitcase and the empty 
grindylow tank. 

“Well — good-bye, Harry,” he said, smiling. “It has 
been a real pleasure teaching you. I feel sure we’ll 
meet again sometime. Headmaster, there is no need 
to see me to the gates, I can manage. ...” 

Harry had the impression that Lupin wanted to leave 
as quickly as possible. 

“Good-bye, then, Remus,” said Dumbledore soberly. 
Lupin shifted the grindylow tank slightly so that he 
and Dumbledore could shake hands. Then, with a 
final nod to Harry and a swift smile, Lupin left the 
office. 

Harry sat down in his vacated chair, staring glumly at 
the floor. He heard the door close and looked up. 
Dumbledore was still there. 

“Why so miserable, Harry?” he said quietly. “You 
should be very proud of yourself after last night.” 



Page | 476 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It didn’t make any difference,” said Harry bitterly. 
“Pettigrew got away.” 

“Didn’t make any difference?” said Dumbledore 
quietly. “It made all the difference in the world, Harry. 
You helped uncover the truth. You saved an innocent 
man from a terrible fate.” 

Terrible. Something stirred in Harry’s memory. 

Greater and more terrible than ever before ... Professor 
Trelawney’s prediction! 

“Professor Dumbledore — yesterday, when I was 
having my Divination exam, Professor Trelawney went 
very — very strange.” 

“Indeed?” said Dumbledore. “Er — stranger than 
usual, you mean?” 

“Yes . . . her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled 
and she said ... she said Voldemort’s servant was 
going to set out to return to him before midnight. ... 
She said the servant would help him come back to 
power.” Harry stared up at Dumbledore. “And then 
she sort of became normal again, and she couldn’t 
remember anything she’d said. Was it — was she 
making a real prediction?” 

Dumbledore looked mildly impressed. 

“Do you know, Harry, I think she might have been,” 
he said thoughtfully. “Who’d have thought it? That 
brings her total of real predictions up to two. I should 
offer her a pay raise. ...” 

“But — ” Harry looked at him, aghast. How could 
Dumbledore take this so calmly? 



Page | 477 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“But — I stopped Sirius and Professor Lupin from 
killing Pettigrew! That makes it my fault if Voldemort 
comes back!” 



“It does not,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Hasn’t your 
experience with the Time-Turner taught you anything, 
Harry? The consequences of our actions are always so 
complicated, so diverse, that predicting the future is a 
very difficult business indeed. ... Professor Trelawney, 
bless her, is living proof of that. ... You did a very 
noble thing, in saving Pettigrew’s life.” 

“But if he helps Voldemort back to power — !” 

“Pettigrew owes his life to you. You have sent 
Voldemort a deputy who is in your debt. ... When one 
wizard saves another wizard’s life, it creates a certain 
bond between them ... and I’m much mistaken if 
Voldemort wants his servant in the debt of Harry 
Potter.” 

“I don’t want a connection with Pettigrew!” said Harry. 
“He betrayed my parents!” 

“This is magic at its deepest, its most impenetrable, 
Harry. But trust me ... the time may come when you 
will be very glad you saved Pettigrew’s life.” 

Harry couldn’t imagine when that would be. 
Dumbledore looked as though he knew what Harry 
was thinking. 

“I knew your father very well, both at Hogwarts and 
later, Harry,” he said gently. “He would have saved 
Pettigrew too, I am sure of it.” 

Harry looked up at him. Dumbledore wouldn’t laugh 
— he could tell Dumbledore . . . 

Page | 478 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I thought it was my dad who’d conjured my 
Patronus. I mean, when I saw myself across the lake 
...I thought I was seeing him.” 

“An easy mistake to make,” said Dumbledore softly. “I 
expect you 11 tire of hearing it, but you do look 
extraordinarily like James. Except for the eyes ... you 
have your mother’s eyes.” 

Harry shook his head. 

“It was stupid, thinking it was him,” he muttered. “I 
mean, I knew he was dead.” 

“You think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You 
think that we don’t recall them more clearly than ever 
in times of great trouble? Your father is alive in you, 
Harry, and shows himself most plainly when you have 
need of him. How else could you produce that 
particular Patronus? Prongs rode again last night.” 

It took a moment for Harry to realize what 
Dumbledore had said. 

“Last night Sirius told me all about how they became 
Animagi,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “An 
extraordinary achievement — not least, keeping it 
quiet from me. And then I remembered the most 
unusual form your Patronus took, when it charged 
Mr. Malfoy down at your Quidditch match against 
Ravenclaw. You know, Harry, in a way, you did see 
your father last night. ... You found him inside 
yourself.” 

And Dumbledore left the office, leaving Harry to his 
very confused thoughts. 



Page | 479 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Nobody at Hogwarts now knew the truth of what had 
happened the night that Sirius, Buckbeak, and 
Pettigrew had vanished except Harry, Ron, Hermione, 
and Professor Dumbledore. As the end of term 
approached, Harry heard many different theories 
about what had really happened, but none of them 
came close to the truth. 

Malfoy was furious about Buckbeak. He was 
convinced that Hagrid had found a way of smuggling 
the hippogriff to safety, and seemed outraged that he 
and his father had been outwitted by a gamekeeper. 
Percy Weasley, meanwhile, had much to say on the 
subject of Sirius’s escape. 

“If I manage to get into the Ministry, I’ll have a lot of 
proposals to make about Magical Law Enforcement!” 
he told the only person who would listen — his 
girlfriend, Penelope. 

Though the weather was perfect, though the 
atmosphere was so cheerful, though he knew they 
had achieved the near impossible in helping Sirius to 
freedom, Harry had never approached the end of a 
school year in worse spirits. 

He certainly wasn’t the only one who was sorry to see 
Professor Lupin go. The whole of Harry’s Defense 
Against the Dark Arts class was miserable about his 
resignation. 

“Wonder what they’ll give us next year?” said Seamus 
Finnigan gloomily. 

“Maybe a vampire,” suggested Dean Thomas 
hopefully. 

It wasn’t only Professor Lupin’s departure that was 
weighing on Harry’s mind. He couldn’t help thinking a 

Page | 480 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




lot about Professor Trelawney’s prediction. He kept 
wondering where Pettigrew was now, whether he had 
sought sanctuary with Voldemort yet. But the thing 
that was lowering Harry’s spirits most of all was the 
prospect of returning to the Dursleys. For maybe half 
an hour, a glorious half hour, he had believed he 
would be living with Sirius from now on . . . his 
parents’ best friend. ... It would have been the next 
best thing to having his own father back. And while 
no news of Sirius was definitely good news, because it 
meant he had successfully gone into hiding, Harry 
couldn’t help feeling miserable when he thought of 
the home he might have had, and the fact that it was 
now impossible. 

The exam results came out on the last day of term. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had passed every subject. 
Harry was amazed that he had got through Potions. 
He had a shrewd suspicion that Dumbledore might 
have stepped in to stop Snape failing him on purpose. 
Snape’s behavior toward Harry over the past week 
had been quite alarming. Harry wouldn’t have 
thought it possible that Snape’s dislike for him could 
increase, but it certainly had. A muscle twitched 
unpleasantly at the corner of Snape’s thin mouth 
every time he looked at Harry, and he was constantly 
flexing his fingers, as though itching to place them 
around Harry’s throat. 

Percy had got his top-grade N.E.W.T.s; Fred and 
George had scraped a handful of O.W.L.s each. 
Gryffindor House, meanwhile, largely thanks to their 
spectacular performance in the Quidditch Cup, had 
won the House championship for the third year 
running. This meant that the end of term feast took 
place amid decorations of scarlet and gold, and that 
the Gryffindor table was the noisiest of the lot, as 
everybody celebrated. Even Harry managed to forget 



Page | 481 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




about the journey back to the Dursleys the next day 
as he ate, drank, talked, and laughed with the rest. 



As the Hogwarts Express pulled out of the station the 
next morning, Hermione gave Harry and Ron some 
surprising news. 

“I went to see Professor McGonagall this morning, just 
before breakfast. I’ve decided to drop Muggle Studies.” 

“But you passed your exam with three hundred and 
twenty percent!” said Ron. 

“I know,” sighed Hermione, “but I can’t stand another 
year like this one. That Time-Turner, it was driving 
me mad. I’ve handed it in. Without Muggle Studies 
and Divination, I’ll be able to have a normal schedule 
again.” 

“I still can’t believe you didn’t tell us about it,” said 
Ron grumpily. “We’re supposed to be your friends.” 

“I promised I wouldn’t tell anyone,” said Hermione 
severely. She looked around at Harry, who was 
watching Hogwarts disappear from view behind a 
mountain. Two whole months before he’d see it again. 



“Oh, cheer up, Harry!” said Hermione sadly. 

“I’m okay,” said Harry quickly. “Just thinking about 
the holidays.” 

“Yeah, I’ve been thinking about them too,” said Ron. 
“Harry, you’ve got to come and stay with us. I’ll fix it 
up with Mum and Dad, then I’ll call you. I know how 
to use a fellytone now — ” 

Page | 482 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“A telephone, Ron,” said Hermione. “Honestly, you 
should take Muggle Studies next year. ...” 

Ron ignored her. 

“It’s the Quidditch World Cup this summer! How 
about it, Harry? Come and stay, and we’ll go and see 
it! Dad can usually get tickets from work.” 

This proposal had the effect of cheering Harry up a 
great deal. 

“Yeah ... I bet the Dursleys’d be pleased to let me 
come ... especially after what I did to Aunt Marge. ...” 

Feeling considerably more cheerful, Harry joined Ron 
and Hermione in several games of Exploding Snap, 
and when the witch with the tea cart arrived, he 
bought himself a very large lunch, though nothing 
with chocolate in it. 

But it was late in the afternoon before the thing that 
made him truly happy turned up. ... 

“Harry,” said Hermione suddenly, peering over his 
shoulder. “What’s that thing outside your window?” 

Harry turned to look outside. Something very small 
and gray was bobbing in and out of sight beyond the 
glass. He stood up for a better look and saw that it 
was a tiny owl, carrying a letter that was much too 
big for it. The owl was so small, in fact, that it kept 
tumbling over in the air, buffeted this way and that in 
the train’s slipstream. Harry quickly pulled down the 
window, stretched out his arm, and caught it. It felt 
like a very fluffy Snitch. He brought it carefully inside. 
The owl dropped its letter onto Harry’s seat and began 
zooming around their compartment, apparently very 
pleased with itself for accomplishing its task. Hedwig 
Page | 483 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




clicked her beak with a sort of dignified disapproval. 
Crookshanks sat up in his seat, following the owl with 
his great yellow eyes. Ron, noticing this, snatched the 
owl safely out of harm’s way. 

Harry picked up the letter. It was addressed to him. 

He ripped open the letter, and shouted, “It’s from 
Sirius!” 

“What?” said Ron and Hermione excitedly. “Read it 
aloud!” 

Dear Harry, 

I hope this finds you before you reach your aunt and 
uncle. I don’t know whether they’re used to owl post 

Buckbeak and I are in hiding. I won’t tell you where, in 
case this owl falls into the wrong hands. I have some 
doubt about his reliability, but he is the best I could 
find, and he did seem eager for the job. 

I believe the dementors are still searching for me, but 
they haven’t a hope of finding me here. I am planning 
to allow some Muggles to glimpse me soon, a long way 
from Hogwarts, so that the security on the castle will 
be lifted. 

There is something I never got around to telling you 
during our brief meeting. It was I who sent you the 
Firebolt — 

“Ha!” said Hermione triumphantly. “See! I told you it 
was from him!” 

“Yes, but he hadn’t jinxed it, had he?” said Ron. 
“Ouch!” The tiny owl, now hooting happily in his 
hand, had nibbled one of his fingers in what it 
seemed to think was an affectionate way. 

Page | 484 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Crookshanks took the order to the Owl Office for me. I 
used your name but told them to take the gold from my 
own Gringotts vault. Please consider it as thirteen 
birthdays’ worth of presents from your godfather. 

I would also like to apologize for the fright I think I 
gave you that night last year when you left your 
uncle’s house. I had only hoped to get a glimpse of you 
before starting my journey north, but I think the sight 
of me alarmed you. 

I am enclosing something else for you, which I think 
will make your next year at Hogwarts more enjoyable. 

If ever you need me, send word. Your owl will find me. 

I’ll write again soon. 

Sirius 

Harry looked eagerly inside the envelope. There was 
another piece of parchment in there. He read it 
through quickly and felt suddenly as warm and 
contented as though he’d swallowed a bottle of hot 
butterbeer in one gulp. 

I, Sirius Black, Harry Potter’s godfather, hereby give 
him permission to visit Hogsmeade on weekends. 

“That’ll be good enough for Dumbledore!” said Harry 
happily. He looked back at Sirius’s letter. 

“Hang on, there’s a P.S. ...” 

I thought your friend Ron might like to keep this owl, 
as it’s my fault he no longer has a rat. 

Ron’s eyes widened. The minute owl was still hooting 
excitedly. 

Page | 485 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Keep him?” he said uncertainly. He looked closely at 
the owl for a moment; then, to Harry’s and 
Hermione’s great surprise, he held him out for 
Crookshanks to sniff. 

“What do’you reckon?” Ron asked the cat. “Definitely 
an owl?” 

Crookshanks purred. 

“That’s good enough for me,” said Ron happily. “He’s 
mine.” 

Harry read and reread the letter from Sirius all the 
way back into King’s Cross station. It was still 
clutched tightly in his hand as he, Ron, and 
Hermione stepped back through the barrier of 
platform nine and three-quarters. Harry spotted 
Uncle Vernon at once. He was standing a good 
distance from Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, eyeing them 
suspiciously, and when Mrs. Weasley hugged Harry in 
greeting, his worst suspicions about them seemed 
confirmed. 

“I’ll call about the World Cup!” Ron yelled after Harry 
as Harry bid him and Hermione good-bye, then 
wheeled the trolley bearing his trunk and Hedwig’s 
cage toward Uncle Vernon, who greeted him in his 
usual fashion. 

“What’s that?” he snarled, staring at the envelope 
Harry was still clutching in his hand. “If it’s another 
form for me to sign, you’ve got another — ” 

“It’s not,” said Harry cheerfully. “It’s a letter from my 
godfather.” 

“Godfather?” sputtered Uncle Vernon. “You haven’t 
got a godfather!” 

Page | 486 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, I have,” said Harry brightly. “He was my mum 
and dad’s best friend. He’s a convicted murderer, but 
he’s broken out of wizard prison and he’s on the run. 
He likes to keep in touch with me, though ... keep up 
with my news ... check if I’m happy. ...” 

And, grinning broadly at the look of horror on Uncle 
Vernon’s face, Harry set off toward the station exit, 
Hedwig rattling along in front of him, for what looked 
like a much better summer than the last. 



Page | 487 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




