being free from the same flaw that had taken Yaxley 
to Grimmauld Place on the hem of Hermione ’s sleeve. 

Harry’s scar was burning now. He thought that there 
was so much they did not know: Lupin had been right 
about magic they had never encountered or imagined. 
Why hadn’t Dumbledore explained more? Had he 
thought that there would be time; that he would live 
for years, for centuries perhaps, like his friend Nicolas 
Flamel? If so, he had been wrong. ... Snape had seen 
to that. ... Snape, the sleeping snake, who had struck 
at the top of the tower . . . 

And Dumbledore had fallen ... fallen ... 

“ Give it to me, Gregorovitch.” 

Harry’s voice was high, clear, and cold, his wand held 
in front of him by a long-fingered white hand. The 
man at whom he was pointing was suspended upside 
down in midair, though there were no ropes holding 
him; he swung there, invisibly and eerily bound, his 
limbs wrapped about him, his terrified face, on a level 
with Harry’s, ruddy due to the blood that had rushed 
to his head. He had pure-white hair and a thick, 
bushy beard: a trussed-up Father Christmas. 

“I have it not, I have it no more! It was, many years 
ago, stolen from me!” 



Page | 314 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Do not lie to Lord Voldemort, Gregorovitch. He 
knows. ... He always knows.” 

The hanging man’s pupils were wide, dilated with 
fear, and they seemed to swell, bigger and bigger until 
their blackness swallowed Harry whole — 

And now Harry was hurrying along a dark corridor in 
stout little Gregorovitch ’s wake as he held a lantern 
aloft: Gregorovitch burst into the room at the end of 
the passage and his lantern illuminated what looked 
like a workshop; wood shavings and gold gleamed in 
the swinging pool of light, and there on the window 
ledge sat perched, like a giant bird, a young man with 
golden hair. In the split second that the lantern’s light 
illuminated him, Harry saw the delight upon his 
handsome face, then the intruder shot a Stunning 
Spell from his wand and jumped neatly backward out 
of the window with a crow of laughter. 

And Harry was hurtling back out of those wide, 
tunnellike pupils and Gregorovitch ’s face was stricken 
with terror. 

“Who was the thief, Gregorovitch?” said the high cold 
voice. 

“I do not know, I never knew, a young man — no — 
please — PLEASE !” 

A scream that went on and on and then a burst of 
green light — 

“ Harryl ” 

He opened his eyes, panting, his forehead throbbing. 
He had passed out against the side of the tent, had 
slid sideways down the canvas, and was sprawled on 
the ground. He looked up at Hermione, whose bushy 

Page | 315 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




hair obscured the tiny patch of sky visible through 
the dark branches high above them. 

“Dream,” he said, sitting up quickly and attempting to 
meet Hermione ’s glower with a look of innocence. 
“Must’ve dozed off, sorry.” 

“I know it was your scar! I can tell by the look on your 
face! You were looking into Vol — ” 

“Don’t say his name!” came Ron’s angry voice from 
the depths of the tent. 

“Fine,” retorted Hermione. “You-Know-Who’s mind, 
then!” 

“I didn’t mean it to happen!” Harry said. “It was a 
dream! Can you control what you dream about, 
Hermione?” 

“If you just learned to apply Occlumency — ” 

But Harry was not interested in being told off; he 
wanted to discuss what he had just seen. 

“He’s found Gregorovitch, Hermione, and I think he’s 
killed him, but before he killed him he read 
Gregorovitch ’s mind and I saw — ” 

“I think I’d better take over the watch if you’re so tired 
you’re falling asleep,” said Hermione coldly. 

“I can finish the watch!” 

“No, you’re obviously exhausted. Go and lie down.” 

She dropped down in the mouth of the tent, looking 
stubborn. Angry, but wishing to avoid a row, Harry 
ducked back inside. 

Page | 316 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron’s still-pale face was poking out from the lower 
bunk; Harry climbed into the one above him, lay 
down, and looked up at the dark canvas ceiling. After 
several moments, Ron spoke in a voice so low that it 
would not carry to Hermione, huddled in the 
entrance. 

“What’s You-Know-Who doing?” 

Harry screwed up his eyes in the effort to remember 
every detail, then whispered into the darkness. 

“He found Gregorovitch. He had him tied up, he was 
torturing him.” 

“How’s Gregorovitch supposed to make him a new 
wand if he’s tied up?” 

“I dunno. ... It’s weird, isn’t it?” 

Harry closed his eyes, thinking of all he had seen and 
heard. The more he recalled, the less sense it made. 

... Voldemort had said nothing about Harry’s wand, 
nothing about the twin cores, nothing about 
Gregorovitch making a new and more powerful wand 
to beat Harry’s. ... 

“He wanted something from Gregorovitch,” Harry 
said, eyes still closed tight. “He asked him to hand it 
over, but Gregorovitch said it had been stolen from 
him ... and then ... then ...” 

He remembered how he, as Voldemort, had seemed to 
hurtle through Gregorovitch ’s eyes, into his 
memories. ... 

“He read Gregorovitch ’s mind, and I saw this young 
bloke perched on a windowsill, and he fired a curse at 
Gregorovitch and jumped out of sight. He stole it, he 

Page | 317 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




stole whatever You-Know-Who’s after. And I ... I think 
I’ve seen him somewhere. ...” 

Harry wished he could have another glimpse of the 
laughing boy’s face. The theft had happened many 
years ago, according to Gregorovitch. Why did the 
young thief look familiar? 

The noises of the surrounding woods were muffled 
inside the tent; all Harry could hear was Ron’s 
breathing. After a while, Ron whispered, “Couldn’t 
you see what the thief was holding?” 

“No ... it must’ve been something small.” 

“Harry?” 

The wooden slats of Ron’s bunk creaked as he 
repositioned himself in bed. 

“Harry, you don’t reckon You-Know-Who’s after 
something else to turn into a Horcrux?” 

“I don’t know,” said Harry slowly. “Maybe. But 
wouldn’t it be dangerous for him to make another 
one? Didn’t Hermione say he had pushed his soul to 
the limit already?” 

“Yeah, but maybe he doesn’t know that.” 

“Yeah ... maybe,” said Harry. 

He had been sure that Voldemort had been looking 
for a way around the problem of the twin cores, sure 
that Voldemort sought a solution from the old 
wandmaker . . . and yet he had killed him, apparently 
without asking him a single question about wandlore. 



Page | 318 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




What was Voldemort trying to find? Why, with the 
Ministry of Magic and the Wizarding world at his feet, 
was he far away, intent on the pursuit of an object 
that Gregorovitch had once owned, and which had 
been stolen by the unknown thief? 

Harry could still see the blond-haired youth’s face; it 
was merry, wild; there was a Fred and George-ish air 
of triumphant trickery about him. He had soared from 
the windowsill like a bird, and Harry had seen him 
before, but he could not think where. ... 

With Gregorovitch dead, it was the merry-faced thief 
who was in danger now, and it was on him that 
Harry’s thoughts dwelled, as Ron’s snores began to 
rumble from the lower bunk and as he himself drifted 
slowly into sleep once more. 



Page | 319 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE GOBLIN’S REVENGE 

Early next morning, before the other two were awake, 
Harry left the tent to search the woods around them 
for the oldest, most gnarled, and resilient-looking tree 
he could find. There in its shadow he buried Mad-Eye 
Moody’s eye and marked the spot by gouging a small 
cross in the bark with his wand. It was not much, but 
Harry felt that Mad-Eye would have much preferred 
this to being stuck on Dolores Umbridge’s door. Then 
he returned to the tent to wait for the others to wake, 
and discuss what they were going to do next. 

Harry and Hermione felt that it was best not to stay 
anywhere too long, and Ron agreed, with the sole 
proviso that their next move took them within reach 
of a bacon sandwich. Hermione therefore removed the 
enchantments she had placed around the clearing, 
while Harry and Ron obliterated all the marks and 
impressions on the ground that might show they had 
camped there. Then they Disapparated to the 
outskirts of a small market town. 



Page | 320 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Once they had pitched the tent in the shelter of a 
small copse of trees and surrounded it with freshly 
cast defensive enchantments, Harry ventured out 
under the Invisibility Cloak to find sustenance. This, 
however, did not go as planned. He had barely 
entered the town when an unnatural chill, a 
descending mist, and a sudden darkening of the skies 
made him freeze where he stood. 

“But you can make a brilliant Patronus!” protested 
Ron, when Harry arrived back at the tent empty- 
handed, out of breath, and mouthing the single word, 
dementors. 

“I couldn’t ... make one,” he panted, clutching the 
stitch in his side. “Wouldn’t ... come.” 

Their expressions of consternation and 
disappointment made Harry feel ashamed. It had 
been a nightmarish experience, seeing the dementors 
gliding out of the mist in the distance and realizing, 
as the paralyzing cold choked his lungs and a distant 
screaming filled his ears, that he was not going to be 
able to protect himself. It had taken all Harry’s 
willpower to uproot himself from the spot and run, 
leaving the eyeless dementors to glide amongst the 
Muggles who might not be able to see them, but 
would assuredly feel the despair they cast wherever 
they went. 

“So we still haven’t got any food.” 

“Shut up, Ron,” snapped Hermione. “Harry, what 
happened? Why do you think you couldn’t make your 
Patronus? You managed perfectly yesterday!” 

“I don’t know.” 



Page | 321 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He sat low in one of Perkins’s old armchairs, feeling 
more humiliated by the moment. He was afraid that 
something had gone wrong inside him. Yesterday 
seemed a long time ago: Today he might have been 
thirteen years old again, the only one who collapsed 
on the Hogwarts Express. 

Ron kicked a chair leg. 

“What?” he snarled at Hermione. “I’m starving! All I’ve 
had since I bled half to death is a couple of 
toadstools!” 

“You go and fight your way through the dementors, 
then,” said Harry, stung. 

“I would, but my arm’s in a sling, in case you hadn’t 
noticed!” 

“That’s convenient.” 

“And what’s that supposed to — ?” 

“Of course!” cried Hermione, clapping a hand to her 
forehead and startling both of them into silence. 
“Harry, give me the locket! Come on,” she said 
impatiently, clicking her fingers at him when he did 
not react, “the Horcrux, Harry, you’re still wearing it!” 

She held out her hands, and Harry lifted the golden 
chain over his head. The moment it parted contact 
with Harry’s skin he felt free and oddly light. He had 
not even realized that he was clammy or that there 
was a heavy weight pressing on his stomach until 
both sensations lifted. 

“Better?” asked Hermione. 

“Yeah, loads better!” 

Page | 322 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry,” she said, crouching down in front of him and 
using the kind of voice he associated with visiting the 
very sick, “you don’t think you’ve been possessed, do 
you?” 

“What? No!” he said defensively. “I remember 
everything we’ve done while I’ve been wearing it. I 
wouldn’t know what I’d done if I’d been possessed, 
would I? Ginny told me there were times when she 
couldn’t remember anything.” 

“Hmm,” said Hermione, looking down at the heavy 
gold locket. “Well, maybe we ought not to wear it. We 
can just keep it in the tent.” 

“We are not leaving that Horcrux lying around,” Harry 
stated firmly. “If we lose it, if it gets stolen — ” 

“Oh, all right, all right,” said Hermione, and she 
placed it around her own neck and tucked it out of 
sight down the front of her shirt. “But we’ll take turns 
wearing it, so nobody keeps it on too long.” 

“Great,” said Ron irritably, “and now we’ve sorted that 
out, can we please get some food?” 

“Fine, but we’ll go somewhere else to find it,” said 
Hermione with half a glance at Harry. “There’s no 
point staying where we know dementors are swooping 
around.” 

In the end they settled down for the night in a far- 
flung field belonging to a lonely farm, from which they 
had managed to obtain eggs and bread. 

“It’s not stealing, is it?” asked Hermione in a troubled 
voice, as they devoured scrambled eggs on toast. “Not 
if I left some money under the chicken coop?” 



Page | 323 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron rolled his eyes and said, with his cheeks bulging, 

“ ’Er-my-nee, ’oo worry ’oo much. ’Elax!” 

And, indeed, it was much easier to relax when they 
were comfortably well fed: The argument about the 
dementors was forgotten in laughter that night, and 
Harry felt cheerful, even hopeful, as he took the first 
of the three night watches. 

This was their first encounter with the fact that a full 
stomach meant good spirits; an empty one, bickering 
and gloom. Harry was least surprised by this, 
because he had suffered periods of near starvation at 
the Dursleys’. Hermione bore up reasonably well on 
those nights when they managed to scavenge nothing 
but berries or stale biscuits, her temper perhaps a 
little shorter than usual and her silences rather dour. 
Ron, however, had always been used to three 
delicious meals a day, courtesy of his mother or of the 
Hogwarts house-elves, and hunger made him both 
unreasonable and irascible. Whenever lack of food 
coincided with Ron’s turn to wear the Horcrux, he 
became downright unpleasant. 

“So where next?” was his constant refrain. He did not 
seem to have any ideas himself, but expected Harry 
and Hermione to come up with plans while he sat and 
brooded over the low food supplies. Accordingly Harry 
and Hermione spent fruitless hours trying to decide 
where they might find the other Horcruxes, and how 
to destroy the one they had already got, their 
conversations becoming increasingly repetitive as 
they had no new information. 

As Dumbledore had told Harry that he believed 
Voldemort had hidden the Horcruxes in places 
important to him, they kept reciting, in a sort of 
dreary litany, those locations they knew that 
Voldemort had lived or visited. The orphanage where 
Page | 324 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




he had been born and raised; Hogwarts, where he had 
been educated; Borgin and Burkes, where he had 
worked after completing school; then Albania, where 
he had spent his years of exile: These formed the 
basis of their speculations. 

“Yeah, let’s go to Albania. Shouldn’t take more than 
an afternoon to search an entire country,” said Ron 
sarcastically. 

“There can’t be anything there. He’d already made five 
of his Horcruxes before he went into exile, and 
Dumbledore was certain the snake is the sixth,” said 
Hermione. “We know the snake’s not in Albania, it’s 
usually with Vol — ” 

“Didn’t I ask you to stop saying that?” 

“Fine! The snake is usually with You-Knotu-Who — 
happy?” 

“Not particularly.” 

“I can’t see him hiding anything at Borgin and 
Burkes,” said Harry, who had made this point many 
times before, but said it again simply to break the 
nasty silence. “Borgin and Burke were experts at 
Dark objects, they would’ve recognized a Horcrux 
straightaway.” 

Ron yawned pointedly. Repressing a strong urge to 
throw something at him, Harry plowed on, “I still 
reckon he might have hidden something at 
Hogwarts.” 

Hermione sighed. 

“But Dumbledore would have found it, Harry!” 



Page | 325 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry repeated the argument he kept bringing out in 
favor of this theory. 

“Dumbledore said in front of me that he never 
assumed he knew all of Hogwarts’s secrets. I’m telling 
you, if there was one place Vol — ” 

“Oi!” 



“YOU-KNOW-WHO, then!” Harry shouted, goaded 
past endurance. “If there was one place that was 
really important to You-Know-Who, it was Hogwarts!” 

“Oh, come on,” scoffed Ron. “His school?” 

“Yeah, his school! It was his first real home, the place 
that meant he was special; it meant everything to 
him, and even after he left — ” 

“This is You-Know-Who we’re talking about, right? 

Not you?” inquired Ron. He was tugging at the chain 
of the Horcrux around his neck: Harry was visited by 
a desire to seize it and throttle him. 

“You told us that You-Know-Who asked Dumbledore 
to give him a job after he left,” said Hermione. 

“That’s right,” said Harry. 

“And Dumbledore thought he only wanted to come 
back to try and find something, probably another 
founder’s object, to make into another Horcrux?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“But he didn’t get the job, did he?” said Hermione. “So 
he never got the chance to find a founder’s object 
there and hide it in the school!” 



Page | 326 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Okay, then,” said Harry, defeated. “Forget Hogwarts.” 

Without any other leads, they traveled into London 
and, hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, searched 
for the orphanage in which Voldemort had been 
raised. Hermione stole into a library and discovered 
from their records that the place had been 
demolished many years before. They visited its site 
and found a tower block of offices. 

“We could try digging in the foundations?” Hermione 
suggested halfheartedly. 

“He wouldn’t have hidden a Horcrux here,” Harry 
said. He had known it all along: The orphanage had 
been the place Voldemort had been determined to 
escape; he would never have hidden a part of his soul 
there. Dumbledore had shown Harry that Voldemort 
sought grandeur or mystique in his hiding places; 
this dismal gray corner of London was as far removed 
as you could imagine from Hogwarts or the Ministry 
or a building like Gringotts, the Wizarding bank, with 
its golden doors and marble floors. 

Even without any new ideas, they continued to move 
through the countryside, pitching the tent in a 
different place each night for security. Every morning 
they made sure that they had removed all clues to 
their presence, then set off to find another lonely and 
secluded spot, traveling by Apparition to more woods, 
to the shadowy crevices of cliffs, to purple moors, 
gorse-covered mountainsides, and once a sheltered 
and pebbly cove. Every twelve hours or so they 
passed the Horcrux between them as though they 
were playing some perverse, slow-motion game of 
pass-the-parcel, where they dreaded the music 
stopping because the reward was twelve hours of 
increased fear and anxiety. 



Page | 327 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s scar kept prickling. It happened most often, 
he noticed, when he was wearing the Horcrux. 
Sometimes he could not stop himself reacting to the 
pain. 

“What? What did you see?” demanded Ron, whenever 
he noticed Harry wince. 

“A face,” muttered Harry, every time. “The same face. 
The thief who stole from Gregorovitch.” 

And Ron would turn away, making no effort to hide 
his disappointment. Harry knew that Ron was hoping 
to hear news of his family or of the rest of the Order of 
the Phoenix, but after all, he, Harry, was not a 
television aerial; he could only see what Voldemort 
was thinking at the time, not tune in to whatever took 
his fancy. Apparently Voldemort was dwelling 
endlessly on the unknown youth with the gleeful face, 
whose name and whereabouts, Harry felt sure, 
Voldemort knew no better than he did. As Harry’s 
scar continued to burn and the merry, blond-haired 
boy swam tantalizingly in his memory, he learned to 
suppress any sign of pain or discomfort, for the other 
two showed nothing but impatience at the mention of 
the thief. He could not entirely blame them, when 
they were so desperate for a lead on the Horcruxes. 

As the days stretched into weeks, Harry began to 
suspect that Ron and Hermione were having 
conversations without, and about, him. Several times 
they stopped talking abruptly when Harry entered the 
tent, and twice he came accidentally upon them, 
huddled a little distance away, heads together and 
talking fast; both times they fell silent when they 
realized he was approaching them and hastened to 
appear busy collecting wood or water. 



Page | 328 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could not help wondering whether they had 
only agreed to come on what now felt like a pointless 
and rambling journey because they thought he had 
some secret plan that they would learn in due course. 
Ron was making no effort to hide his bad mood, and 
Harry was starting to fear that Hermione too was 
disappointed by his poor leadership. In desperation 
he tried to think of further Horcrux locations, but the 
only one that continued to occur to him was 
Hogwarts, and as neither of the others thought this at 
all likely, he stopped suggesting it. 

Autumn rolled over the countryside as they moved 
through it: They were now pitching the tent on 
mulches of fallen leaves. Natural mists joined those 
cast by the dementors; wind and rain added to their 
troubles. The fact that Hermione was getting better at 
identifying edible fungi could not altogether 
compensate for their continuing isolation, the lack of 
other people’s company, or their total ignorance of 
what was going on in the war against Voldemort. 

“My mother,” said Ron one night, as they sat in the 
tent on a riverbank in Wales, “can make good food 
appear out of thin air.” 

He prodded moodily at the lumps of charred gray fish 
on his plate. Harry glanced automatically at Ron’s 
neck and saw, as he had expected, the golden chain 
of the Horcrux glinting there. He managed to fight 
down the impulse to swear at Ron, whose attitude 
would, he knew, improve slightly when the time came 
to take off the locket. 

“Your mother can’t produce food out of thin air,” said 
Hermione. “No one can. Food is the first of the five 
Principal Exceptions to Gamp’s Law of Elemental 
Transfigur — ” 



Page | 329 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, speak English, can’t you?” Ron said, prising a 
fish bone out from between his teeth. 

“It’s impossible to make good food out of nothing! You 
can Summon it if you know where it is, you can 
transform it, you can increase the quantity if you’ve 
already got some — ” 

“Well, don’t bother increasing this, it’s disgusting,” 
said Ron. 

“Harry caught the fish and I did my best with it! I 
notice I’m always the one who ends up sorting out the 
food, because I’m a girl, I suppose!” 

“No, it’s because you’re supposed to be the best at 
magic!” shot back Ron. 

Hermione jumped up and bits of roast pike slid off 
her tin plate onto the floor. 

“ You can do the cooking tomorrow, Ron, you can find 
the ingredients and try and charm them into 
something worth eating, and I’ll sit here and pull 
faces and moan and you can see how you — ” 

“Shut up!” said Harry, leaping to his feet and holding 
up both hands. “Shut up now\” 

Hermione looked outraged. 

“How can you side with him, he hardly ever does the 
cook — ” 

“Hermione, be quiet, I can hear someone!” 

He was listening hard, his hands still raised, warning 
them not to talk. Then, over the rush and gush of the 



Page | 330 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




dark river beside them, he heard voices again. He 
looked around at the Sneakoscope. It was not moving. 

“You cast the Muffliato charm over us, right?” he 
whispered to Hermione. 

“I did everything,” she whispered back, “Muffliato, 
Muggle-Repelling and Disillusionment Charms, all of 
it. They shouldn’t be able to hear or see us, whoever 
they are.” 

Heavy scuffing and scraping noises, plus the sound of 
dislodged stones and twigs, told them that several 
people were clambering down the steep, wooded slope 
that descended to the narrow bank where they had 
pitched the tent. They drew their wands, waiting. The 
enchantments they had cast around themselves 
ought to be sufficient, in the near total darkness, to 
shield them from the notice of Muggles and normal 
witches and wizards. If these were Death Eaters, then 
perhaps their defenses were about to be tested by 
Dark Magic for the first time. 

The voices became louder but no more intelligible as 
the group of men reached the bank. Harry estimated 
that their owners were fewer than twenty feet away, 
but the cascading river made it impossible to tell for 
sure. Hermione snatched up the beaded bag and 
started to rummage; after a moment she drew out 
three Extendable Ears and threw one each to Harry 
and Ron, who hastily inserted the ends of the flesh- 
colored strings into their ears and fed the other ends 
out of the tent entrance. 

Within seconds Harry heard a weary male voice. 

“There ought to be a few salmon in here, or d’you 
reckon it’s too early in the season? Accio Salmon).” 



Page | 331 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There were several distinct splashes and then the 
slapping sounds of fish against flesh. Somebody 
grunted appreciatively. Harry pressed the Extendable 
Ear deeper into his own: Over the murmur of the river 
he could make out more voices, but they were not 
speaking English or any human language he had ever 
heard. It was a rough and unmelodious tongue, a 
string of rattling, guttural noises, and there seemed to 
be two speakers, one with a slightly lower, slower 
voice than the other. 

A fire danced into life on the other side of the canvas; 
large shadows passed between tent and flames. The 
delicious smell of baking salmon wafted tantalizingly 
in their direction. Then came the clinking of cutlery 
on plates, and the first man spoke again. 

“Here, Griphook, Gornuk.” 

Goblins\ Hermione mouthed at Harry, who nodded. 

“Thank you,” said the goblins together in English. 

“So, you three have been on the run how long?” asked 
a new, mellow, and pleasant voice; it was vaguely 
familiar to Harry, who pictured a round-bellied, 
cheerful-faced man. 

“Six weeks ... seven ... I forget,” said the tired man. 
“Met up with Griphook in the first couple of days and 
joined forces with Gornuk not long after. Nice to have 
a bit of company.” There was a pause, while knives 
scraped plates and tin mugs were picked up and 
replaced on the ground. “What made you leave, Ted?” 
continued the man. 

“Knew they were coming for me,” replied mellow- 
voiced Ted, and Harry suddenly knew who he was: 
Tonks’s father. “Heard Death Eaters were in the area 

Page | 332 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




last week and decided I’d better run for it. Refused to 
register as a Muggle-born on principle, see, so I knew 
it was a matter of time, knew I’d have to leave in the 
end. My wife should be okay, she’s pure-blood. And 
then I met Dean here, what, a few days ago, son?” 

“Yeah,” said another voice, and Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione stared at each other, silent but beside 
themselves with excitement, sure they recognized the 
voice of Dean Thomas, their fellow Gryffindor. 

“Muggle-born, eh?” asked the first man. 

“Not sure,” said Dean. “My dad left my mum when I 
was a kid. I’ve got no proof he was a wizard, though.” 

There was silence for a while, except for the sounds of 
munching; then Ted spoke again. 

“I’ve got to say, Dirk, I’m surprised to run into you. 
Pleased, but surprised. Word was you’d been caught.” 

“I was,” said Dirk. “I was halfway to Azkaban when I 
made a break for it, Stunned Dawlish, and nicked his 
broom. It was easier than you’d think; I don’t reckon 
he’s quite right at the moment. Might be Confunded. 

If so, I’d like to shake the hand of the witch or wizard 
who did it, probably saved my life.” 

There was another pause in which the fire crackled 
and the river rushed on. Then Ted said, “And where 
do you two fit in? I, er, had the impression the goblins 
were for You-Know-Who, on the whole.” 

“You had a false impression,” said the higher-voiced 
of the goblins. “We take no sides. This is a wizards’ 
war.” 

“How come you’re in hiding, then?” 

Page | 333 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I deemed it prudent,” said the deeper-voiced goblin. 
“Having refused what I considered an impertinent 
request, I could see that my personal safety was in 
jeopardy.” 

“What did they ask you to do?” asked Ted. 

“Duties ill-befitting the dignity of my race,” replied the 
goblin, his voice rougher and less human as he said 
it. “I am not a house-elf.” 

“What about you, Griphook?” 

“Similar reasons,” said the higher-voiced goblin. 
“Gringotts is no longer under the sole control of my 
race. I recognize no Wizarding master.” 

He added something under his breath in 
Gobbledegook, and Gornuk laughed. 

“What’s the joke?” asked Dean. 

“He said,” replied Dirk, “that there are things wizards 
don’t recognize, either.” 

There was a short pause. 

“I don’t get it,” said Dean. 

“I had my small revenge before I left,” said Griphook 
in English. 

“Good man — goblin, I should say,” amended Ted 
hastily. “Didn’t manage to lock a Death Eater up in 
one of the old high-security vaults, I suppose?” 

“If I had, the sword would not have helped him break 
out,” replied Griphook. Gornuk laughed again and 
even Dirk gave a dry chuckle. 

Page | 334 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Dean and I are still missing something here,” said 
Ted. 



“So is Severus Snape, though he does not know it,” 
said Griphook, and the two goblins roared with 
malicious laughter. Inside the tent Harry’s breathing 
was shallow with excitement: He and Hermione stared 
at each other, listening as hard as they could. 

“Didn’t you hear about that, Ted?” asked Dirk. “About 
the kids who tried to steal Gryffindor’s sword out of 
Snape ’s office at Hogwarts?” 

An electric current seemed to course through Harry, 
jangling his every nerve as he stood rooted to the 
spot. 

“Never heard a word,” said Ted. “Not in the Prophet, 
was it?” 

“Hardly,” chortled Dirk. “Griphook here told me, he 
heard about it from Bill Weasley who works for the 
bank. One of the kids who tried to take the sword was 
Bill’s younger sister.” 

Harry glanced toward Hermione and Ron, both of 
whom were clutching the Extendable Ears as tightly 
as lifelines. 

“She and a couple of friends got into Snape ’s office 
and smashed open the glass case where he was 
apparently keeping the sword. Snape caught them as 
they were trying to smuggle it down the staircase.” 

“Ah, God bless ’em,” said Ted. “What did they think, 
that they’d be able to use the sword on You-Know- 
Who? Or on Snape himself?” 



Page | 335 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, whatever they thought they were going to do 
with it, Snape decided the sword wasn’t safe where it 
was,” said Dirk. “Couple of days later, once he’d got 
the say-so from You-Know-Who, I imagine, he sent it 
down to London to be kept in Gringotts instead.” 

The goblins started to laugh again. 

“I’m still not seeing the joke,” said Ted. 

“It’s a fake,” rasped Griphook. 

“The sword of Gryffindor!” 

“Oh yes. It is a copy — an excellent copy, it is true — 
but it was Wizard-made. The original was forged 
centuries ago by goblins and had certain properties 
only goblin-made armor possesses. Wherever the 
genuine sword of Gryffindor is, it is not in a vault at 
Gringotts bank.” 

“I see,” said Ted. “And I take it you didn’t bother 
telling the Death Eaters this?” 

“I saw no reason to trouble them with the 
information,” said Griphook smugly, and now Ted and 
Dean joined in Gornuk and Dirk’s laughter. 

Inside the tent, Harry closed his eyes, willing someone 
to ask the question he needed answered, and after a 
minute that seemed ten, Dean obliged; he was (Harry 
remembered with a jolt) an ex-boyfriend of Ginny’s 
too. 

“What happened to Ginny and the others? The ones 
who tried to steal it?” 

“Oh, they were punished, and cruelly,” said Griphook 
