
Harry, 

I would be delighted if you would join me for a bite of 
lunch in compartment C. 

Sincerely, 

Professor H. E. F. Slug horn 

“Who’s Professor Slughorn?” asked Neville, looking 
perplexedly at his own invitation. 

“New teacher,” said Harry. “Well, I suppose we’ll have 
to go, won’t we?” 

“But what does he want me for?” asked Neville 
nervously, as though he was expecting detention. 

Page | 158 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No idea,” said Harry, which was not entirely true, 
though he had no proof yet that his hunch was 
correct. “Listen,” he added, seized by a sudden brain 
wave, “let’s go under the Invisibility Cloak, then we 
might get a good look at Malfoy on the way, see what 
he’s up to.” 

This idea, however, came to nothing: The corridors, 
which were packed with people on the lookout for the 
lunch trolley, were impossible to negotiate while 
wearing the cloak. Harry stowed it regretfully back in 
his bag, reflecting that it would have been nice to 
wear it just to avoid all the staring, which seemed to 
have increased in intensity even since he had last 
walked down the train. Every now and then, students 
would hurtle out of their compartments to get a better 
look at him. The exception was Cho Chang, who 
darted into her compartment when she saw Harry 
coming. As Harry passed the window, he saw her 
deep in determined conversation with her friend 
Marietta, who was wearing a very thick layer of 
makeup that did not entirely obscure the odd 
formation of pimples still etched across her face. 
Smirking slightly, Harry pushed on. 

When they reached compartment C, they saw at once 
that they were not Slughorn’s only invitees, although 
judging by the enthusiasm of Slughorn’s welcome, 
Harry was the most warmly anticipated. 

“Harry, m’boy!” said Slughorn, jumping up at the 
sight of him so that his great velvet-covered belly 
seemed to fill all the remaining space in the 
compartment. His shiny bald head and great silvery 
mustache gleamed as brightly in the sunlight as the 
golden buttons on his waistcoat. “Good to see you, 
good to see you! And you must be Mr. Longbottom!” 



Page | 159 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Neville nodded, looking scared. At a gesture from 
Slughorn, they sat down opposite each other in the 
only two empty seats, which were nearest the door. 
Harry glanced around at their fellow guests. He 
recognized a Slytherin from their year, a tall black boy 
with high cheekbones and long, slanting eyes; there 
were also two seventh-year boys Harry did not know 
and, squashed in the corner beside Slughorn and 
looking as though she was not entirely sure how she 
had got there, Ginny. 

“Now, do you know everyone?” Slughorn asked Harry 
and Neville. “Blaise Zabini is in your year, of course — 



Zabini did not make any sign of recognition or 
greeting, nor did Harry or Neville: Gryffindor and 
Slytherin students loathed each other on principle. 

“This is Cormac McLaggen, perhaps you’ve come 
across each other — ? No?” 

McLaggen, a large, wiry-haired youth, raised a hand, 
and Harry and Neville nodded back at him. 

“ — and this is Marcus Belby, I don’t know whether — 
?” 

Belby, who was thin and nervous-looking, gave a 
strained smile. 

“ — and this charming young lady tells me she knows 
you!” Slughorn finished. 

Ginny grimaced at Harry and Neville from behind 
Slughorn’s back. 

“Well now, this is most pleasant,” said Slughorn 
cozily. “A chance to get to know you all a little better. 

Page | 160 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Here, take a napkin. I’ve packed my own lunch; the 
trolley, as I remember it, is heavy on licorice wands, 
and a poor old man’s digestive system isn’t quite up 
to such things. ... Pheasant, Belby?” 

Belby started and accepted what looked like half a 
cold pheasant. 

“I was just telling young Marcus here that I had the 
pleasure of teaching his Uncle Damocles,” Slughorn 
told Harry and Neville, now passing around a basket 
of rolls. “Outstanding wizard, outstanding, and his 
Order of Merlin most well-deserved. Do you see much 
of your uncle, Marcus?” 

Unfortunately, Belby had just taken a large mouthful 
of pheasant; in his haste to answer Slughorn he 
swallowed too fast, turned purple, and began to 
choke. 

“Anapneo,” said Slughorn calmly, pointing his wand 
at Belby, whose airway seemed to clear at once. 

“Not ... not much of him, no,” gasped Belby, his eyes 
streaming. 

“Well, of course, I daresay he’s busy,” said Slughorn, 
looking questioningly at Belby. “I doubt he invented 
the Wolfsbane Potion without considerable hard 
work!” 

“I suppose ...” said Belby, who seemed afraid to take 
another bite of pheasant until he was sure that 
Slughorn had finished with him. “Er ... he and my 
dad don’t get on very well, you see, so I don’t really 
know much about ...” 

His voice tailed away as Slughorn gave him a cold 
smile and turned to McLaggen instead. 

Page | 161 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Now, you, Cormac,” said Slughorn, “I happen to 
know you see a lot of your Uncle Tiberius, because he 
has a rather splendid picture of the two of you 
hunting nogtails in, I think, Norfolk?” 

“Oh, yeah, that was fun, that was,” said McLaggen. 
“We went with Bertie Higgs and Rufus Scrimgeour — 
this was before he became Minister, obviously — ” 

“Ah, you know Bertie and Rufus too?” beamed 
Slughorn, now offering around a small tray of pies; 
somehow, Belby was missed out. “Now tell me ...” 

It was as Harry had suspected. Everyone here seemed 
to have been invited because they were connected to 
somebody well-known or influential — everyone 
except Ginny. Zabini, who was interrogated after 
McLaggen, turned out to have a famously beautiful 
witch for a mother (from what Harry could make out, 
she had been married seven times, each of her 
husbands dying mysteriously and leaving her mounds 
of gold). It was Neville’s turn next: This was a very 
uncomfortable ten minutes, for Neville’s parents, well- 
known Aurors, had been tortured into insanity by 
Bellatrix Lestrange and a couple of Death Eater 
cronies. At the end of Neville’s interview, Harry had 
the impression that Slughorn was reserving judgment 
on Neville, yet to see whether he had any of his 
parents’ flair. 

“And now,” said Slughorn, shifting massively in his 
seat with the air of a compere introducing his star 
act. “Harry Potter! Where to begin? I feel I barely 
scratched the surface when we met over the summer!” 
He contemplated Harry for a moment as though he 
was a particularly large and succulent piece of 
pheasant, then said, “ The Chosen One,’ they’re 
calling you now!” 



Page | 162 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry said nothing. Belby, McLaggen, and Zabini 
were all staring at him. 



“Of course,” said Slughorn, watching Harry closely, 
“there have been rumors for years. ... I remember 
when — well — after that terrible night — Lily — 
James — and you survived — and the word was that 
you must have powers beyond the ordinary — ” 

Zabini gave a tiny little cough that was clearly 
supposed to indicate amused skepticism. An angry 
voice burst out from behind Slughorn. 

“Yeah, Zabini, because you’re so talented ... at posing. 



“Oh dear!” chuckled Slughorn comfortably, looking 
around at Ginny, who was glaring at Zabini around 
Slughorn ’s great belly. “You want to be careful, Blaise! 
I saw this young lady perform the most marvelous 
Bat-Bogey Hex as I was passing her carriage! I 
wouldn’t cross her!” 

Zabini merely looked contemptuous. 

“Anyway,” said Slughorn, turning back to Harry. 

“Such rumors this summer. Of course, one doesn’t 
know what to believe, the Prophet has been known to 
print inaccuracies, make mistakes — but there seems 
little doubt, given the number of witnesses, that there 
was quite a disturbance at the Ministry and that you 
were there in the thick of it all!” 

Harry, who could not see any way out of this without 
flatly lying, nodded but still said nothing. Slughorn 
beamed at him. 

“So modest, so modest, no wonder Dumbledore is so 
fond — you were there, then? But the rest of the 

Page | 163 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




stories — so sensational, of course, one doesn’t know 
quite what to believe — this fabled prophecy, for 
instance — ” 

“We never heard a prophecy,” said Neville, turning 
geranium pink as he said it. 

“That’s right,” said Ginny staunchly. “Neville and I 
were both there too, and all this ‘Chosen One’ rubbish 
is just the Prophet making things up as usual.” 

“You were both there too, were you?” said Slughorn 
with great interest, looking from Ginny to Neville, but 
both of them sat clamlike before his encouraging 
smile. 

“Yes . . . well ... it is true that the Prophet often 
exaggerates, of course. ...” Slughorn said, sounding a 
little disappointed. “I remember dear Gwenog telling 
me (Gwenog Jones, I mean, of course, Captain of the 
Holyhead Harpies) — ” 

He meandered off into a long-winded reminiscence, 
but Harry had the distinct impression that Slughorn 
had not finished with him, and that he had not been 
convinced by Neville and Ginny. 

The afternoon wore on with more anecdotes about 
illustrious wizards Slughorn had taught, all of whom 
had been delighted to join what he called the “Slug 
Club” at Hogwarts. Harry could not wait to leave, but 
couldn’t see how to do so politely. Finally the train 
emerged from yet another long misty stretch into a 
red sunset, and Slughorn looked around, blinking in 
the twilight. 

“Good gracious, it’s getting dark already! I didn’t 
notice that they’d lit the lamps! You’d better go and 
change into your robes, all of you. McLaggen, you 

Page | 164 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




must drop by and borrow that book on nogtails. 

Harry, Blaise — any time you’re passing. Same goes 
for you, miss,” he twinkled at Ginny. “Well, off you go, 
off you go!” 

As he pushed past Harry into the darkening corridor, 
Zabini shot him a filthy look that Harry returned with 
interest. He, Ginny, and Neville followed Zabini back 
along the train. 

“I’m glad that’s over,” muttered Neville. “Strange man, 
isn’t he?” 

“Yeah, he is a bit,” said Harry, his eyes on Zabini. 
“How come you ended up in there, Ginny?” 

“He saw me hex Zacharias Smith,” said Ginny. “You 
remember that idiot from Hufflepuff who was in the 
D.A.? He kept on and on asking about what happened 
at the Ministry and in the end he annoyed me so 
much I hexed him — when Slughorn came in I 
thought I was going to get detention, but he just 
thought it was a really good hex and invited me to 
lunch! Mad, eh?” 

“Better reason for inviting someone than because 
their mother’s famous,” said Harry, scowling at the 
back of Zabini ’s head, “or because their uncle — ” 

But he broke off. An idea had just occurred to him, a 
reckless but potentially wonderful idea. ... In a 
minute’s time, Zabini was going to reenter the 
Slytherin sixth-year compartment and Malfoy would 
be sitting there, thinking himself unheard by anybody 
except fellow Slytherins. ... If Harry could only enter, 
unseen, behind him, what might he not see or hear? 
True, there was little of the journey left — Hogsmeade 
Station had to be less than half an hour away, 
judging by the wildness of the scenery flashing by the 
Page | 165 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




windows — but nobody else seemed prepared to take 
Harry’s suspicions seriously, so it was down to him to 
prove them. 

“I’ll see you two later,” said Harry under his breath, 
pulling out his Invisibility Cloak and flinging it over 
himself. 

“But what’re you — ?” asked Neville. 

“Later!” whispered Harry, darting after Zabini as 
quietly as possible, though the rattling of the train 
made such caution almost pointless. 

The corridors were almost completely empty now. 
Nearly everyone had returned to their carriages to 
change into their school robes and pack up their 
possessions. Though he was as close as he could get 
to Zabini without touching him, Harry was not quick 
enough to slip into the compartment when Zabini 
opened the door. Zabini was already sliding it shut 
when Harry hastily stuck out his foot to prevent it 
closing. 

“What’s wrong with this thing?” said Zabini angrily as 
he smashed the sliding door repeatedly into Harry’s 
foot. 

Harry seized the door and pushed it open, hard; 
Zabini, still clinging on to the handle, toppled over 
sideways into Gregory Goyle’s lap, and in the ensuing 
ruckus, Harry darted into the compartment, leapt 
onto Zabini’s temporarily empty seat, and hoisted 
himself up into the luggage rack. It was fortunate that 
Goyle and Zabini were snarling at each other, drawing 
all eyes onto them, for Harry was quite sure his feet 
and ankles had been revealed as the cloak had 
flapped around them; indeed, for one horrible 
moment he thought he saw Malfoy’s eyes follow his 
Page | 166 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




trainer as it whipped upward out of sight. But then 
Goyle slammed the door shut and flung Zabini off 
him; Zabini collapsed into his own seat looking 
ruffled, Vincent Crabbe returned to his comic, and 
Malfoy, sniggering, lay back down across two seats 
with his head in Pansy Parkinson’s lap. Harry lay 
curled uncomfortably under the cloak to ensure that 
every inch of him remained hidden, and watched 
Pansy stroke the sleek blond hair off Malfoy’s 
forehead, smirking as she did so, as though anyone 
would have loved to have been in her place. The 
lanterns swinging from the carriage ceiling cast a 
bright light over the scene: Harry could read every 
word of Crabbe’s comic directly below him. 

“So, Zabini,” said Malfoy, “what did Slughorn want?” 

“Just trying to make up to well-connected people,” 
said Zabini, who was still glowering at Goyle. “Not 
that he managed to find many.” 

This information did not seem to please Malfoy. 

“Who else had he invited?” he demanded. 

“McLaggen from Gryffindor,” said Zabini. 

“Oh yeah, his uncle’s big in the Ministry,” said 
Malfoy. 

“ — someone else called Belby, from Ravenclaw — ” 

“Not him, he’s a prat!” said Pansy. 

“ — and Longbottom, Potter, and that Weasley girl,” 
finished Zabini. 

Malfoy sat up very suddenly, knocking Pansy’s hand 
aside. 

Page | 167 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“He invited Longbottom?” 

“Well, I assume so, as Longbottom was there,” said 
Zabini indifferently. 

“What’s Longbottom got to interest Slughorn?” 

Zabini shrugged. 

“Potter, precious Potter, obviously he wanted a look at 
‘the Chosen One,’ ” sneered Malfoy, “but that Weasley 
girl! What’s so special about her?” 

“A lot of boys like her,” said Pansy, watching Malfoy 
out of the corner of her eyes for his reaction. “Even 
you think she’s good-looking, don’t you, Blaise, and 
we all know how hard you are to please!” 

“I wouldn’t touch a filthy little blood traitor like her 
whatever she looked like,” said Zabini coldly, and 
Pansy looked pleased. Malfoy sank back across her 
lap and allowed her to resume the stroking of his 
hair. 

“Well, I pity Slughorn’s taste. Maybe he’s going a bit 
senile. Shame, my father always said he was a good 
wizard in his day. My father used to be a bit of a 
favorite of his. Slughorn probably hasn’t heard I’m on 
the train, or — ” 

“I wouldn’t bank on an invitation,” said Zabini. “He 
asked me about Nott’s father when I first arrived. 

They used to be old friends, apparently, but when he 
heard he’d been caught at the Ministry he didn’t look 
happy, and Nott didn’t get an invitation, did he? I 
don’t think Slughorn’s interested in Death Eaters.” 

Malfoy looked angry, but forced out a singularly 
humorless laugh. 

Page | 168 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, who cares what he’s interested in? What is he, 
when you come down to it? Just some stupid 
teacher.” Malfoy yawned ostentatiously. “I mean, I 
might not even be at Hogwarts next year, what’s it 
matter to me if some fat old has-been likes me or 
not?” 

“What do you mean, you might not be at Hogwarts 
next year?” said Pansy indignantly, ceasing grooming 
Malfoy at once. 

“Well, you never know,” said Malfoy with the ghost of 
a smirk. “I might have — er — moved on to bigger and 
better things.” 

Crouched in the luggage rack under his cloak, Harry’s 
heart began to race. What would Ron and Hermione 
say about this? Crabbe and Goyle were gawping at 
Malfoy; apparently they had had no inkling of any 
plans to move on to bigger and better things. Even 
Zabini had allowed a look of curiosity to mar his 
haughty features. Pansy resumed the slow stroking of 
Malfoy’s hair, looking dumbfounded. 

“Do you mean — Him?” 

Malfoy shrugged. 

“Mother wants me to complete my education, but 
personally, I don’t see it as that important these days. 
I mean, think about it. ... When the Dark Lord takes 
over, is he going to care how many O.W.L.s or 
N.E.W.T.s anyone’s got? Of course he isn’t. ... It’ll be 
all about the kind of service he received, the level of 
devotion he was shown.” 

“And you think you’ll be able to do something for 
him?” asked Zabini scathingly. “Sixteen years old and 
not even fully qualified yet?” 

Page | 169 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ve just said, haven’t I? Maybe he doesn’t care if I’m 
qualified. Maybe the job he wants me to do isn’t 
something that you need to be qualified for,” said 
Malfoy quietly. 

Crabbe and Goyle were both sitting with their mouths 
open like gargoyles. Pansy was gazing down at Malfoy 
as though she had never seen anything so awe- 
inspiring. 

“I can see Hogwarts,” said Malfoy, clearly relishing the 
effect he had created as he pointed out of the 
blackened window. “We’d better get our robes on.” 

Harry was so busy staring at Malfoy, he did not notice 
Goyle reaching up for his trunk; as he swung it down, 
it hit Harry hard on the side of the head. He let out an 
involuntary gasp of pain, and Malfoy looked up at the 
luggage rack, frowning. 

Harry was not afraid of Malfoy, but he still did not 
much like the idea of being discovered hiding under 
his Invisibility Cloak by a group of unfriendly 
Slytherins. Eyes still watering and head still 
throbbing, he drew his wand, careful not to 
disarrange the cloak, and waited, breath held. To his 
relief, Malfoy seemed to decide that he had imagined 
the noise; he pulled on his robes like the others, 
locked his trunk, and as the train slowed to a jerky 
crawl, fastened a thick new traveling cloak round his 
neck. 

Harry could see the corridors filling up again and 
hoped that Hermione and Ron would take his things 
out onto the platform for him; he was stuck where he 
was until the compartment had quite emptied. At last, 
with a final lurch, the train came to a complete halt. 
Goyle threw the door open and muscled his way out 



Page | 170 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




into a crowd of second years, punching them aside; 
Crabbe and Zabini followed. 

“You go on,” Malfoy told Pansy, who was waiting for 
him with her hand held out as though hoping he 
would hold it. “I just want to check something.” 

Pansy left. Now Harry and Malfoy were alone in the 
compartment. People were filing past, descending 
onto the dark platform. Malfoy moved over to the 
compartment door and let down the blinds, so that 
people in the corridor beyond could not peer in. He 
then bent down over his trunk and opened it again. 

Harry peered down over the edge of the luggage rack, 
his heart pumping a little faster. What had Malfoy 
wanted to hide from Pansy? Was he about to see the 
mysterious broken object it was so important to 
mend? 

“Petrificus Totalusl” 

Without warning, Malfoy pointed his wand at Harry, 
who was instantly paralyzed. As though in slow 
motion, he toppled out of the luggage rack and fell, 
with an agonizing, floor-shaking crash, at Malfoy’s 
feet, the Invisibility Cloak trapped beneath him, his 
whole body revealed with his legs still curled absurdly 
into the cramped kneeling position. He couldn’t move 
a muscle; he could only gaze up at Malfoy, who 
smiled broadly. 

“I thought so,” he said jubilantly. “I heard Goyle’s 
trunk hit you. And I thought I saw something white 
flash through the air after Zabini came back. ...” 

His eyes lingered for a moment upon Harry’s trainers. 



Page | 171 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You didn’t hear anything I care about, Potter. But 
while I’ve got you here ...” 

And he stamped, hard, on Harry’s face. Harry felt his 
nose break; blood spurted everywhere. 

“That’s from my father. Now, let’s see. ...” 

Malfoy dragged the cloak out from under Harry’s 
immobilized body and threw it over him. 

“I don’t reckon they’ll find you till the train’s back in 
London,” he said quietly. “See you around, Potter ... 
or not.” 

And taking care to tread on Harry’s fingers, Malfoy 
left the compartment. 



Page | 172 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






SNAPE VICTORIOUS 

Harry could not move a muscle. He lay there beneath 
the Invisibility Cloak feeling the blood from his nose 
flow, hot and wet, over his face, listening to the voices 
and footsteps in the corridor beyond. His immediate 
thought was that someone, surely, would check the 
compartments before the train departed again. But at 
once came the dispiriting realization that even if 
somebody looked into the compartment, he would be 
neither seen nor heard. His best hope was that 
somebody else would walk in and step on him. 

Harry had never hated Malfoy more than as he lay 
there, like an absurd turtle on its back, blood 
dripping sickeningly into his open mouth. What a 
stupid situation to have landed himself in . . . and now 
the last few footsteps were dying away; everyone was 
shuffling along the dark platform outside; he could 
hear the scraping of trunks and the loud babble of 
talk. 



Page | 173 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



Ron and Hermione would think that he had left the 
train without them. Once they arrived at Hogwarts 
and took their places in the Great Hall, looked up and 
down the Gryffindor table a few times, and finally 
realized that he was not there, he, no doubt, would be 
halfway back to London. 

He tried to make a sound, even a grunt, but it was 
impossible. Then he remembered that some wizards, 
like Dumbledore, could perform spells without 
speaking, so he tried to summon his wand, which had 
fallen out of his hand, by saying the words “Accio 
Wand\” over and over again in his head, but nothing 
happened. 

He thought he could hear the rustling of the trees 
that surrounded the lake, and the far-off hoot of an 
owl, but no hint of a search being made or even (he 
despised himself slightly for hoping it) panicked 
voices wondering where Harry Potter had gone. A 
feeling of hopelessness spread through him as he 
imagined the convoy of thestral-drawn carriages 
trundling up to the school and the muffled yells of 
laughter issuing from whichever carriage Malfoy was 
riding in, where he could be recounting his attack on 
Harry to Crabbe, Goyle, Zabini, and Pansy Parkinson. 

The train lurched, causing Harry to roll over onto his 
side. Now he was staring at the dusty underside of 
the seats instead of the ceiling. The floor began to 
vibrate as the engine roared into life. The Express was 
leaving and nobody knew he was still on it. ... 

Then he felt his Invisibility Cloak fly off him and a 
voice overhead said, “Wotcher, Harry.” 

There was a flash of red light and Harry’s body 
unfroze; he was able to push himself into a more 
dignified sitting position, hastily wipe the blood off his 

Page | 174 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




bruised face with the back of his hand, and raise his 
head to look up at Tonks, who was holding the 
Invisibility Cloak she had just pulled away. 

“We’d better get out of here, quickly,” she said, as the 
train windows became obscured with steam and they 
began to move out of the station. “Come on, we’ll 
jump.” 

Harry hurried after her into the corridor. She pulled 
open the train door and leapt onto the platform, 
which seemed to be sliding underneath them as the 
train gathered momentum. He followed her, staggered 
a little on landing, then straightened up in time to see 
the gleaming scarlet steam engine pick up speed, 
round the corner, and disappear from view. 

The cold night air was soothing on his throbbing 
nose. Tonks was looking at him; he felt angry and 
embarrassed that he had been discovered in such a 
ridiculous position. Silently she handed him back the 
Invisibility Cloak. 

“Who did it?” 

“Draco Malfoy,” said Harry bitterly. “Thanks for ... 
well ...” 

“No problem,” said Tonks, without smiling. From 
what Harry could see in the darkness, she was as 
mousy-haired and miserable-looking as she had been 
when he had met her at the Burrow. “I can fix your 
nose if you stand still.” 

Harry did not think much of this idea; he had been 
intending to visit Madam Pomfrey, the matron, in 
whom he had a little more confidence when it came to 
Healing Spells, but it seemed rude to say this, so he 
stayed stock-still and closed his eyes. 

Page | 175 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Episkey,” said Tonks. 



Harry’s nose felt very hot, and then very cold. He 
raised a hand and felt it gingerly. It seemed to be 
mended. 

“Thanks a lot!” 

“You’d better put that cloak back on, and we can walk 
up to the school,” said Tonks, still unsmiling. As 
Harry swung the cloak back over himself, she waved 
her wand; an immense silvery four-legged creature 
erupted from it and streaked off into the darkness. 

“Was that a Patronus?” asked Harry, who had seen 
Dumbledore send messages like this. 

“Yes, I’m sending word to the castle that I’ve got you 
or they’ll worry. Come on, we’d better not dawdle.” 

They set off toward the lane that led to the school. 

“How did you find me?” 

“I noticed you hadn’t left the train and I knew you 
had that cloak. I thought you might be hiding for 
some reason. When I saw the blinds were drawn 
down on that compartment I thought I’d check.” 

“But what are you doing here, anyway?” Harry asked. 

“I’m stationed in Hogsmeade now, to give the school 
extra protection,” said Tonks. 

“Is it just you who’s stationed up here, or — ?” 

“No, Proudfoot, Savage, and Dawlish are here too.” 

“Dawlish, that Auror Dumbledore attacked last year?” 

Page | 176 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s right.” 



They trudged up the dark, deserted lane, following the 
freshly made carriage tracks. Harry looked sideways 
at Tonks under his cloak. Last year she had been 
inquisitive (to the point of being a little annoying at 
times), she had laughed easily, she had made jokes. 
Now she seemed older and much more serious and 
purposeful. Was this all the effect of what had 
happened at the Ministry? He reflected uncomfortably 
that Hermione would have suggested he say 
something consoling about Sirius to her, that it 
hadn’t been her fault at all, but he couldn’t bring 
himself to do it. He was far from blaming her for 
Sirius’s death; it was no more her fault than anyone 
else’s (and much less than his), but he did not like 
talking about Sirius if he could avoid it. And so they 
tramped on through the cold night in silence, Tonks ’s 
long cloak whispering on the ground behind them. 

Having always traveled there by carriage, Harry had 
never before appreciated just how far Hogwarts was 
from Hogsmeade Station. With great relief he finally 
saw the tall pillars on either side of the gates, each 
topped with a winged boar. He was cold, he was 
hungry, and he was quite keen to leave this new, 
gloomy Tonks behind. But when he put out a hand to 
push open the gates, he found them chained shut. 

“Alohomora\” he said confidently, pointing his wand at 
the padlock, but nothing happened. 

“That won’t work on these,” said Tonks. “Dumbledore 
bewitched them himself.” 

Harry looked around. 

“I could climb a wall,” he suggested. 



Page | 177 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No, you couldn’t,” said Tonks flatly. “Anti-intruder 
jinxes on all of them. Security’s been tightened a 
hundredfold this summer.” 

“Well then,” said Harry, starting to feel annoyed at her 
lack of helpfulness, “I suppose I’ll just have to sleep 
out here and wait for morning.” 

“Someone’s coming down for you,” said Tonks. “Look.” 

A lantern was bobbing at the distant foot of the 
castle. Harry was so pleased to see it he felt he could 
even endure Filch’s wheezy criticisms of his tardiness 
and rants about how his timekeeping would improve 
with the regular application of thumbscrews. It was 
not until the glowing yellow light was ten feet away 
from them, and Harry had pulled off his Invisibility 
Cloak so that he could be seen, that he recognized, 
with a rush of pure loathing, the uplit hooked nose 
and long, black, greasy hair of Severus Snape. 

“Well, well, well,” sneered Snape, taking out his wand 
and tapping the padlock once, so that the chains 
snaked backward and the gates creaked open. “Nice 
of you to turn up, Potter, although you have evidently 
decided that the wearing of school robes would 
detract from your appearance.” 

“I couldn’t change, I didn’t have my — ” Harry began, 
but Snape cut across him. 

“There is no need to wait, Nymphadora, Potter is quite 
— ah — safe in my hands.” 

“I meant Hagrid to get the message,” said Tonks, 
frowning. 

“Hagrid was late for the start-of-term feast, just like 
Potter here, so I took it instead. And incidentally,” 

Page | 178 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




said Snape, standing back to allow Harry to pass him, 
“I was interested to see your new Patronus.” 

He shut the gates in her face with a loud clang and 
tapped the chains with his wand again, so that they 
slithered, clinking, back into place. 

“I think you were better off with the old one,” said 
Snape, the malice in his voice unmistakable. “The 
new one looks weak.” 

As Snape swung the lantern about, Harry saw, 
fleetingly, a look of shock and anger on Tonks’s face. 
Then she was covered in darkness once more. 

“Good night,” Harry called to her over his shoulder, as 
he began the walk up to the school with Snape. 
“Thanks for ... everything.” 

“See you, Harry.” 

Snape did not speak for a minute or so. Harry felt as 
though his body was generating waves of hatred so 
powerful that it seemed incredible that Snape could 
not feel them burning him. He had loathed Snape 
from their first encounter, but Snape had placed 
himself forever and irrevocably beyond the possibility 
of Harry’s forgiveness by his attitude toward Sirius. 
Whatever Dumbledore said, Harry had had time to 
think over the summer, and had concluded that 
Snape ’s snide remarks to Sirius about remaining 
safely hidden while the rest of the Order of the 
Phoenix were off fighting Voldemort had probably 
been a powerful factor in Sirius rushing off to the 
Ministry the night that he had died. Harry clung to 
this notion, because it enabled him to blame Snape, 
which felt satisfying, and also because he knew that if 
anyone was not sorry that Sirius was dead, it was the 
man now striding next to him in the darkness. 

Page | 179 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Fifty points from Gryffindor for lateness, I think,” 
said Snape. “And, let me see, another twenty for your 
Muggle attire. You know, I don’t believe any House 
has ever been in negative figures this early in the 
term: We haven’t even started pudding. You might 
have set a record, Potter.” 

The fury and hatred bubbling inside Harry seemed to 
blaze white-hot, but he would rather have been 
immobilized all the way back to London than tell 
Snape why he was late. 

“I suppose you wanted to make an entrance, did 
you?” Snape continued. “And with no flying car 
available you decided that bursting into the Great 
Hall halfway through the feast ought to create a 
dramatic effect.” 

Still Harry remained silent, though he thought his 
chest might explode. He knew that Snape had come 
to fetch him for this, for the few minutes when he 
could needle and torment Harry without anyone else 
listening. 

They reached the castle steps at last and as the great 
oaken front doors swung open into the vast flagged 
entrance hall, a burst of talk and laughter and of 
tinkling plates and glasses greeted them through the 
doors standing open into the Great Hall. Harry 
wondered whether he could slip his Invisibility Cloak 
back on, thereby gaining his seat at the long 
Gryffindor table (which, inconveniently, was the 
farthest from the entrance hall) without being noticed. 
As though he had read Harry’s mind, however, Snape 
said, “No cloak. You can walk in so that everyone sees 
you, which is what you wanted, I’m sure.” 

Harry turned on the spot and marched straight 
through the open doors: anything to get away from 

Page | 180 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Snape. The Great Hall, with its four long House tables 
and its staff table set at the top of the room, was 
decorated as usual with floating candles that made 
the plates below glitter and glow. It was all a 
shimmering blur to Harry, however, who walked so 
fast that he was passing the Hufflepuff table before 
people really started to stare, and by the time they 
were standing up to get a good look at him, he had 
spotted Ron and Hermione, sped along the benches 
