like a deep well of despair inside him, “so does that 
mean that . . . that one of us has got to kill the other 
one ... in the end?” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. 

For a long time, neither of them spoke. Somewhere 
far beyond the office walls, Harry could hear the 
sound of voices, students heading down to the Great 
Hall for an early breakfast, perhaps. It seemed 
impossible that there could be people in the world 
who still desired food, who laughed, who neither knew 
nor cared that Sirius Black was gone forever. Sirius 
seemed a million miles away already, even if a part of 
Harry still believed that if he had only pulled back 
that veil, he would have found Sirius looking back at 
him, greeting him, perhaps, with his laugh like a 
bark. . . 

“I feel I owe you another explanation, Harry,” said 
Dumbledore hesitantly. “You may, perhaps, have 
wondered why I never chose you as a prefect? I must 
confess ... that I rather thought ... you had enough 
responsibility to be going on with.” 

Harry looked up at him and saw a tear trickling down 
Dumbledore ’s face into his long silver beard. 



Page | 1076Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE SECOND WAR BEGINS 

HE-WHO-MUST-NOT-BE-NAMED RETURNS 

In a brief statement Friday night, Minister of Magic 
Cornelius Fudge confirmed that He-Who-Must-Not-Be 
Named has returned to this country and is active 
once more. 

“It is with great regret that I must confirm that the 
wizard styling himself Lord — well, you know who I 
mean — is alive and among us again,” said Fudge, 
looking tired and flustered as he addressed reporters. 
“It is with almost equal regret that we report the mass 
revolt of the dementors of Azkaban, who have shown 
themselves averse to continuing in the Ministry’s 
employ. We believe that the dementors are currently 
taking direction from Lord — Thingy. 

“We urge the magical population to remain vigilant The 
Ministry is currently publishing guides to elementary 
home and personal defense that will be delivered free 
to all Wizarding homes within the coming month. ” 



Page | 1077Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



The Minister’s statement was met with dismay and 
alarm from the Wizarding community, which as 
recently as last Wednesday was receiving Ministry 
assurances that there was “no truth whatsoever in 
these persistent rumors that You-Know-Who is 
operating amongst us once more.” 

Details of the events that led to the Ministry 
turnaround are still hazy, though it is believed that 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named and a select band of 
followers (known as Death Eaters) gained entry to the 
Ministry of Magic itself on Thursday evening. 

Albus Dumbledore, newly reinstated headmaster of 
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, 
reinstated member of the International Confederation 
of Wizards, and reinstated Chief Warlock of the 
Wizengamot, was unavailable for comment last night. 
He has insisted for a year that You-Know-Who was 
not dead, as was widely hoped and believed, but 
recruiting followers once more for a fresh attempt to 
seize power. Meanwhile the Boy Who Lived — 

“There you are, Harry, I knew they’d drag you into it 
somehow,” said Hermione, looking over the top of the 
paper at him. 

They were in the hospital wing. Harry was sitting on 
the end of Ron’s bed and they were both listening to 
Hermione read the front page of the Sunday Prophet. 
Ginny, whose ankle had been mended in a trice by 
Madam Pomfrey, was curled up at the foot of 
Hermione’s bed; Neville, whose nose had likewise 
been returned to its normal size and shape, was in a 
chair between the two beds; and Luna, who had 
dropped in to visit clutching the latest edition of The 
Quibbler, was reading the magazine upside down and 
apparently not taking in a word Hermione was saying. 



Page | 1078Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“He’s ‘the Boy Who Lived’ again now, though, isn’t 
he?” said Ron darkly. “Not such a show-off maniac 
anymore, eh?” 

He helped himself to a handful of Chocolate Frogs 
from the immense pile on his bedside cabinet, threw a 
few to Harry, Ginny, and Neville, and ripped off the 
wrapper of his own with his teeth. There were still 
deep welts on his forearms where the brain’s tentacles 
had wrapped around him. According to Madam 
Pomfrey, thoughts could leave deeper scarring than 
almost anything else, though since she had started 
applying copious amounts of Dr. Ubbly’s Oblivious 
Unction, there seemed to be some improvement. 

“Yes, they’re very complimentary about you now, 
Harry,” said Hermione, now scanning down the 
article. “ ‘A lone voice of truth ... perceived as 
unbalanced, yet never wavered in his story . . . forced to 
bear ridicule and slander ...’ Hmmm,” said Hermione, 
frowning, “I notice they don’t mention the fact that it 
was them doing all the ridiculing and slandering, 
though...” 

She winced slightly and put a hand to her ribs. The 
curse Dolohov had used on her, though less effective 
than it would have been had he been able to say the 
incantation aloud, had nevertheless caused, in 
Madam Pomfrey’s words, “quite enough damage to be 
going on with.” Hermione was having to take ten 
different types of potion every day and although she 
was improving greatly, was already bored with the 
hospital wing. 

“ ‘You-Know- Who’s Last Attempt to Take Over, pages 
two to four, What the Ministry Should Have Told Us, 
page five, Why Nobody Listened to Albus Dumbledore, 
pages six to eight, Exclusive Interview with Harry 
Potter, page nine ...’ Well,” said Hermione, folding up 
Page | 1079Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the newspaper and throwing it aside, “it’s certainly 
given them lots to write about. And that interview 
with Harry isn’t exclusive, it’s the one that was in The 
Quibbler months ago...” 

“Daddy sold it to them,” said Luna vaguely, turning a 
page of The Quibbler. “He got a very good price for it 
too, so we’re going to go on an expedition to Sweden 
this summer and see if we can catch a Crumple- 
Horned Snorkack.” 

Hermione seemed to struggle with herself for a 
moment, then said, “That sounds lovely.” 

Ginny caught Harry’s eye and looked away quickly, 
grinning. 

“So anyway,” said Hermione, sitting up a little 
straighter and wincing again, “what’s going on in 
school?” 

“Well, Flitwick’s got rid of Fred and George’s swamp,” 
said Ginny. “He did it in about three seconds. But he 
left a tiny patch under the window and he’s roped it 
off—” 

“Why?” said Hermione, looking startled. 

“Oh, he just says it was a really good bit of magic,” 
said Ginny, shrugging. 

“I think he left it as a monument to Fred and George,” 
said Ron through a mouthful of chocolate. “They sent 
me all these, you know,” he told Harry, pointing at 
the small mountain of Frogs beside him. “Must be 
doing all right out of that joke shop, eh?” 

Hermione looked rather disapproving and asked, “So 
has all the trouble stopped now Dumbledore’s back?” 

Page | 1080Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Neville, “everything’s settled right back 
down again.” 

“I s’pose Filch is happy, is he?” asked Ron, propping a 
Chocolate Frog card featuring Dumbledore against his 
water jug. 

“Not at all,” said Ginny. “He’s really, really miserable, 
actually...” She lowered her voice to a whisper. “He 
keeps saying Umbridge was the best thing that ever 
happened to Hogwarts...” 

All six of them looked around. Professor Umbridge 
was lying in a bed opposite them, gazing up at the 
ceiling. Dumbledore had strode alone into the forest 
to rescue her from the centaurs. How he had done it 
— how he had emerged from the trees supporting 
Professor Umbridge without so much as a scratch on 
him — nobody knew, and Umbridge was certainly not 
telling. Since she had returned to the castle she had 
not, as far as any of them knew, uttered a single 
word. Nobody really knew what was wrong with her 
either. Her usually neat mousy hair was very untidy 
and there were bits of twig and leaf in it, but 
otherwise she seemed to be quite unscathed. 

“Madam Pomfrey says she’s just in shock,” whispered 
Hermione. 

“Sulking, more like,” said Ginny 

“Yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this,” said 
Ron, and with his tongue he made soft clip-clopping 
noises. Umbridge sat bolt upright, looking wildly 
around. 

“Anything wrong, Professor?” called Madam Pomfrey, 
poking her head around her office door. 



Page | 1081Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No ... no ...” said Umbridge, sinking back into her 
pillows, “no, I must have been dreaming...” 

Hermione and Ginny muffled their laughter in the 
bedclothes. 

“Speaking of centaurs,” said Hermione, when she had 
recovered a little, “who’s Divination teacher now? Is 
Firenze staying?” 

“He’s got to,” said Harry, “the other centaurs won’t 
take him back, will they?” 

“It looks like he and Trelawney are both going to 
teach,” said Ginny. 

“Bet Dumbledore wishes he could’ve got rid of 
Trelawney for good,” said Ron, now munching on his 
fourteenth Frog. “Mind you, the whole subjects 
useless if you ask me, Firenze isn’t a lot better...” 

“How can you say that?” Hermione demanded. “After 
we’ve just found out that there are real prophecies?” 

Harry’s heart began to race. He had not told Ron, 
Hermione, or anyone else what the prophecy had 
contained. Neville had told them it had smashed while 
Harry was pulling him up the steps in the Death 
Room, and Harry had not yet corrected this 
impression. He was not ready to see their expressions 
when he told them that he must be either murderer 
or victim, there was no other way... 

“It is a pity it broke,” said Hermione quietly, shaking 
her head. 

“Yeah, it is,” said Ron. “Still, at least You-Know-Who 
never found out what was in it either — where are 



Page | 1082Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




you going?” he added, looking both surprised and 
disappointed as Harry stood up. 

“Er — Hagrid’s,” said Harry. “You know, he just got 
back and I promised I’d go down and see him and tell 
him how you two are...” 

“Oh all right then,” said Ron grumpily, looking out of 
the dormitory window at the patch of bright blue sky 
beyond. “Wish we could come ...” 

“Say hello to him for us!” called Hermione, as Harry 
proceeded down the ward. “And ask him what’s 
happening about ... about his little friend!” 

Harry gave a wave of his hand to show he had heard 
and understood as he left the dormitory. 

The castle seemed very quiet even for a Sunday. 
Everybody was clearly out in the sunny grounds, 
enjoying the end of their exams and the prospect of a 
last few days of term unhampered by studying or 
homework. Harry walked slowly along the deserted 
corridor, peering out of windows as he went. He could 
see people messing around in the air over the 
Quidditch pitch and a couple of students swimming 
in the lake, accompanied by the giant squid. 

He was finding it hard at the moment to decide 
whether he wanted to be with people or not. 

Whenever he was in company he wanted to get away, 
and whenever he was alone he wanted company. He 
thought he might really go and visit Hagrid, though; 
he had not talked to him properly since he had 
returned... 

Harry had just descended the last marble step into 
the entrance hall when Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle 
emerged from a door on the right that Harry knew led 

Page | 1083Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




down to the Slytherin common room. Harry stopped 
dead; so did Malfoy and the others. For a few 
moments, the only sounds were the shouts, laughter, 
and splashes drifting into the hall from the grounds 
through the open front doors. 

Malfoy glanced around. Harry knew he was checking 
for signs of teachers. Then he looked back at Harry 
and said in a low voice, “You’re dead, Potter.” 

Harry raised his eyebrows. “Funny,” he said, “you’d 
think I’d have stopped walking around...” 

Malfoy looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him. 
He felt a kind of detached satisfaction at the sight of 
his pale, pointed face contorted with rage. 

“You’re going to pay,” said Malfoy in a voice barely 
louder than a whisper. “I’m going to make you pay for 
what you’ve done to my father...” 

“Well, I’m terrified now,” said Harry sarcastically. “I 
s’pose Lord Voldemort’s just a warm-up act compared 
to you three — what’s the matter?” he said, for 
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had all looked stricken at 
the sound of the name. “He’s your dad’s mate, isn’t 
he? Not scared of him, are you?” 

“You think you’re such a big man, Potter,” said 
Malfoy, advancing now, Crabbe and Goyle flanking 
him. “You wait. I’ll have you. You can’t land my father 
in prison — ” 

“I thought I just had,” said Harry. 

“The dementors have left Azkaban,” said Malfoy 
quietly. “Dad and the others’ll be out in no time...” 



Page | 1084Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, I expect they will,” said Harry. “Still, at least 
everyone knows what scumbags they are now — ” 

Malfoy’s hand flew toward his wand, but Harry was 
too quick for him. He had drawn his own wand before 
Malfoy’s fingers had even entered the pocket of his 
robes. 

“Potter!” 

The voice rang across the entrance hall; Snape had 
emerged from the staircase leading down to his office, 
and at the sight of him Harry felt a great rush of 
hatred beyond anything he felt toward Malfoy . . . 
Whatever Dumbledore said, he would never forgive 
Snape ... never ... 

“What are you doing, Potter?” said Snape coldly as 
ever, as he strode over to the four of them. 

“I’m trying to decide what curse to use on Malfoy, sir,” 
said Harry fiercely. 

Snape stared at him. 

“Put that wand away at once,” he said curtly. “Ten 
points from Gryff — ” 

Snape looked toward the giant hourglasses on the 
walls and gave a sneering smile. 

“Ah. I see there are no longer any points left in the 
Gryffindor hourglass to take away. In that case, 

Potter, we will simply have to — ” 

“Add some more?” 

Professor McGonagall had just stumped up the stone 
steps into the castle. She was carrying a tartan 

Page | 1085Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




carpetbag in one hand and leaning heavily on a 
walking stick with her other, but otherwise looked 
quite well. 

“Professor McGonagall!” said Snape, striding forward. 
“Out of St. Mungo’s, I see!” 

“Yes, Professor Snape,” said Professor McGonagall, 
shrugging off her traveling cloak, “I’m quite as good as 
new. You two — Crabbe — Goyle — ” 

She beckoned them forward imperiously and they 
came, shuffling their large feet and looking awkward. 

“Here,” said Professor McGonagall, thrusting her 
carpetbag into Crabbe ’s chest and her cloak into 
Goyle’s, “take these up to my office for me.” 

They turned and stumped away up the marble 
staircase. 

“Right then,” said Professor McGonagall, looking up 
at the hourglasses on the wall, “well, I think Potter 
and his friends ought to have fifty points apiece for 
alerting the world to the return of You- Know- Who! 
What say you, Professor Snape?” 

“What?” snapped Snape, though Harry knew he had 
heard perfectly well. “Oh — well — I suppose ...” 

“So that’s fifty each for Potter, the two Weasleys, 
Longbottom, and Miss Granger,” said Professor 
McGonagall, and a shower of rubies fell down into the 
bottom bulb of Gryffindor’s hourglass as she spoke. 

“Oh — and fifty for Miss Lovegood, I suppose,” she 
added, and a number of sapphires fell into 
Ravenclaw’s glass. “Now, you wanted to take ten from 
Mr. Potter, I think, Professor Snape — so there we 
are...” 

Page | 1086Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




A few rubies retreated into the upper bulb, leaving a 
respectable amount below nevertheless. 



“Well, Potter, Malfoy, I think you ought to be outside 
on a glorious day like this,” Professor McGonagall 
continued briskly. 

Harry did not need telling twice. He thrust his wand 
back inside his robes and headed straight for the 
front doors without another glance at Snape and 
Malfoy. 

The hot sun hit him with a blast as he walked across 
the lawns toward Hagrid’s cabin. Students lying 
around on the grass sunbathing, talking, reading the 
Sunday Prophet, and eating sweets looked up at him 
as he passed. Some called out to him, or else waved, 
clearly eager to show that they, like the Prophet, had 
decided he was something of a hero. Harry said 
nothing to any of them. He had no idea how much 
they knew of what had happened three days ago, but 
he had so far avoided being questioned and preferred 
it that way. 

He thought at first when he knocked on Hagrid’s 
cabin door that he was out, but then Fang came 
charging around the corner and almost bowled him 
over with the enthusiasm of his welcome. Hagrid, it 
transpired, was picking runner beans in his back 
garden. 

“All righ’, Harry!” he said, beaming, when Harry 
approached the fence. “Come in, come in, we’ll have a 
cup o’ dandelion juice... 

“How’s things?” Hagrid asked him, as they settled 
down at his wooden table with a glass apiece of iced 
juice. “You — er — feelin’ all righ’, are yeh?” 

Page | 1087Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry knew from the look of concern on Hagrid’s face 
that he was not referring to Harry’s physical well- 
being. 

“I’m fine,” Harry said quickly, because he could not 
bear to discuss the thing that he knew was in 
Hagrid’s mind. “So, where’ve you been?” 

“Bin hidin’ out in the mountains,” said Hagrid. “Up in 
a cave, like Sirius did when he — ” 

Hagrid broke off, cleared his throat gruffly, looked at 
Harry, and took a long draft of juice. 

“Anyway, back now,” he said feebly. 

“You — you look better,” said Harry, who was 
determined to keep the conversation moving away 
from Sirius. 

“Wha?” said Hagrid, raising a massive hand and 
feeling his face. “Oh — oh yeah. Well, Grawpy’s loads 
better behaved now, loads. Seemed right pleased ter 
see me when I got back, ter tell yeh the truth. He’s a 
good lad, really... I’ve bin thinkin’ abou’ tryin’ ter find 
him a lady friend, actually...” 

Harry would normally have tried to persuade Hagrid 
out of this idea at once. The prospect of a second 
giant taking up residence in the forest, possibly even 
wilder and more brutal than Grawp, was positively 
alarming, but somehow Harry could not muster the 
energy necessary to argue the point. He was starting 
to wish he was alone again, and with the idea of 
hastening his departure he took several large gulps of 
his dandelion juice, half emptying his glass. 



Page | 1088Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Ev’ryone knows you’ve bin tellin’ the truth now, 
Harry,” said Hagrid softly and unexpectedly. “Tha’s 
gotta be better, hasn’ it?” 

Harry shrugged. 

“Look ...” Hagrid leaned toward him across the table, 
“I knew Sirius longer ’n you did... He died in battle, 
an’ tha’s the way he’d’ve wanted ter go — ” 

“He didn’t want to go at all!” said Harry angrily. 

Hagrid bowed his great shaggy head. 

“Nah, I don’ reckon he did,” he said quietly. “But still, 
Harry ... he was never one ter sit around at home an’ 
let other people do the fightin’. He couldn’ have lived 
with himself if he hadn’ gone ter help — ” 

Harry leapt up again. 

“I’ve got to go and visit Ron and Hermione in the 
hospital wing,” he said mechanically. 

“Oh,” said Hagrid, looking rather upset. “Oh ... all 
righ then, Harry ... Take care of yerself then, an’ drop 
back in if yeh’ve got a mo...” 

“Yeah ... right ...” 

Harry crossed to the door as fast as he could and 
pulled it open. He was out in the sunshine again 
before Hagrid had finished saying goodbye and 
walked away across the lawn. Once again, people 
called out to him as he passed. He closed his eyes for 
a few moments, wishing they would all vanish, that 
he could open his eyes and find himself alone in the 
grounds... 



Page | 1089Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




A few days ago, before his exams had finished and he 
had seen the vision Voldemort had planted in his 
mind, he would have given almost anything for the 
Wizarding world to know that he had been telling the 
truth, for them to believe that Voldemort was back 
and know that he was neither a liar nor mad. Now, 
however ... 

He walked a short way around the lake, sat down on 
its bank, sheltered from the gaze of passersby behind 
a tangle of shrubs, and stared out over the gleaming 
water, thinking... 

Perhaps the reason he wanted to be alone was 
because he had felt isolated from everybody since his 
talk with Dumbledore. An invisible barrier separated 
him from the rest of the world. He was — he had 
always been — a marked man. It was just that he had 
never really understood what that meant... 

And yet sitting here on the edge of the lake, with the 
terrible weight of grief dragging at him, with the loss 
of Sirius so raw and fresh inside, he could not muster 
any great sense of fear. It was sunny and the grounds 
around him were full of laughing people, and even 
though he felt as distant from them as though he 
belonged to a different race, it was still very hard to 
believe as he sat here that his life must include, or 
end in, murder... 

He sat there for a long time, gazing out at the water, 
trying not to think about his godfather or to 
remember that it was directly across from here, on 
the opposite bank, that Sirius had collapsed trying to 
fend off a hundred dementors... 

The sun had fallen before he realized that he was 
cold. He got up and returned to the castle, wiping his 
face on his sleeve as he went. 

Page | 1090Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron and Hermione left the hospital wing completely 
cured three days before the end of term. Hermione 
showed signs of wanting to talk about Sirius, but Ron 
tended to make hushing noises every time she 
mentioned his name. Harry was not sure whether or 
not he wanted to talk about his godfather yet; his 
wishes varied with his mood. He knew one thing, 
though: Unhappy as he felt at the moment, he would 
greatly miss Hogwarts in a few days’ time when he 
was back at number four, Privet Drive. Even though 
he now understood exactly why he had to return 
there every summer, he did not feel any better about 
it. Indeed, he had never dreaded his return more. 

Professor Umbridge left Hogwarts the day before the 
end of term. It seemed that she had crept out of the 
hospital wing during dinnertime, evidently hoping to 
depart undetected, but unfortunately for her, she met 
Peeves on the way, who seized his last chance to do 
as Fred had instructed and chased her gleefully from 
the premises, whacking her alternately with a walking 
stick and a sock full of chalk. Many students ran out 
into the entrance hall to watch her running away 
down the path, and the Heads of Houses tried only 
halfheartedly to restrain their pupils. Indeed, 

Professor McGonagall sank back into her chair at the 
staff table after a few feeble remonstrances and was 
clearly heard to express a regret that she could not 
run cheering after Umbridge herself, because Peeves 
had borrowed her walking stick. 

Their last evening at school arrived; most people had 
finished packing and were already heading down to 
the end-of-term feast, but Harry had not even started. 

“Just do it tomorrow!” said Ron, who was waiting by 
the door of their dormitory. “Come on, I’m starving...” 

“I won’t be long... Look, you go ahead...” 

Page | 1091Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But when the dormitory door closed behind Ron, 
Harry made no effort to speed up his packing. The 
very last thing he wanted to do was to attend the end- 
of-term feast. He was worried that Dumbledore would 
make some reference to him in his speech. He was 
sure to mention Voldemort’s return; he had talked to 
them about it last year, after all... 

Harry pulled some crumpled robes out of the very 
bottom of his trunk to make way for folded ones and, 
as he did so, noticed a badly wrapped package lying 
in a corner of it. He could not think what it was doing 
there. He bent down, pulled it out from underneath 
his trainers, and examined it. 

He realized what it was within seconds. Sirius had 
given it to him just inside the front door of twelve 
Grimmauld Place. Use it if you need me, all right? 

Harry sank down onto his bed and unwrapped the 
package. Out fell a small, square mirror. It looked old; 
it was certainly dirty. Harry held it up to his face and 
saw his own reflection looking back at him. 

He turned the mirror over. There on the reverse side 
was a scribbled note from Sirius. 

This is a two-way mirror. I’ve got the other. If you need 
to speak to me, just say my name into it; you’ll appear 
in my mirror and I’ll be able to talk in yours. James 
and I used to use them when we were in separate 
detentions. 

And Harry’s heart began to race. He remembered 
seeing his dead parents in the Mirror of Erised four 
years ago. He was going to be able to talk to Sirius 
again, right now, he knew it — 



Page | 1092Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He looked around to make sure there was nobody else 
there; the dormitory was quite empty. He looked back 
at the mirror, raised it in front of his face with 
trembling hands, and said, loudly and clearly, 

“Sirius.” 

His breath misted the surface of the glass. He held 
the mirror even closer, excitement flooding through 
him, but the eyes blinking back at him through the 
fog were definitely his own. 

He wiped the mirror clear again and said, so that 
every syllable rang clearly through the room, “Sirius 
Black!” 

Nothing happened. The frustrated face looking back 
out of the mirror was still, definitely, his own... 

Sirius didn’t have his mirror on him when he went 
through the archway, said a small voice in Harry’s 
head. That’s why it’s not working... 

Harry remained quite still for a moment, then hurled 
the mirror back into the trunk where it shattered. He 
had been convinced, for a whole, shining minute, that 
he was going to see Sirius, talk to him again... 

Disappointment was burning in his throat. He got up 
and began throwing his things pell-mell into the 
trunk on top of the broken mirror — 

But then an idea struck him... A better idea than a 
mirror ... A much bigger, more important idea . . . How 
had he never thought of it before — why had he never 
asked? 

He was sprinting out of the dormitory and down the 
spiral staircase, hitting the walls as he ran and barely 
noticing. He hurtled across the empty common room, 

Page | 1093Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




through the portrait hole and off along the corridor, 
ignoring the Fat Lady, who called after him, “The feast 
is about to start, you know, you’re cutting it very 
fine!” 

But Harry had no intention of going to the feast . . . 

How could it be that the place was full of ghosts 
whenever you didn’t need one, yet now ... 

He ran down staircases and along corridors and met 
nobody either alive or dead. They were all, clearly, in 
the Great Hall. Outside his Charms classroom he 
came to a halt, panting and thinking disconsolately 
that he would have to wait until later, until after the 
end of the feast . . . 

But just as he had given up hope he saw it — a 
translucent somebody drifting across the end of the 
corridor. 

“Hey — hey Nick! NICK!” 

The ghost stuck its head back out of the wall, 
revealing the extravagantly plumed hat and 
dangerously wobbling head of Sir Nicholas de Mimsy- 
Porpington. 

“Good evening,” he said, withdrawing the rest of his 
body from the solid stone and smiling at Harry. “I am 
not the only one who is late, then? Though,” he 
sighed, “in rather different senses, of course ...” 

“Nick, can I ask you something?” 

A most peculiar expression stole over Nearly Headless 
Nick’s face as he inserted a finger in the stiff ruff at 
his neck and tugged it a little straighter, apparently to 
give himself thinking time. He desisted only when his 

Page | 1094Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




partially severed neck seemed about to give way 
completely. 



“Er — now, Harry?” said Nick, looking discomforted. 
“Can’t it wait until after the feast?” 

“No — Nick — please,” said Harry, “I really need to 
talk to you. Can we go in here?” 

Harry opened the door of the nearest classroom and 
Nearly Headless Nick sighed. 

“Oh very well,” he said, looking resigned. “I can’t 
pretend I haven’t been expecting it.” 

Harry was holding the door open for him, but he 
drifted through the wall instead. 

“Expecting what?” Harry asked, as he closed the door. 

“You to come and find me,” said Nick, now gliding 
over to the window and looking out at the darkening 
grounds. “It happens, sometimes ... when somebody 
has suffered a ... loss.” 

“Well,” said Harry, refusing to be deflected. “You were 
right, I’ve — I’ve come to find you.” 

Nick said nothing. 

“It’s — ” said Harry, who was finding this more 
awkward than he had anticipated, “it’s just — you’re 
dead. But you’re still here, aren’t you?” 

Nick sighed and continued to gaze out at the grounds. 

“That’s right, isn’t it?” Harry urged him. “You died, 
but I’m talking to you... You can walk around 
Hogwarts and everything, can’t you?” 

Page | 1095Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Nearly Headless Nick quietly, “I walk and 
talk, yes.” 

“So, you came back, didn’t you?” said Harry urgently. 
“People can come back, right? As ghosts. They don’t 
have to disappear completely. Well?” he added 
impatiently, when Nick continued to say nothing. 

Nearly Headless Nick hesitated, then said, “Not 
everyone can come back as a ghost.” 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry quickly. 

“Only ... only wizards.” 

“Oh,” said Harry, and he almost laughed with relief. 
“Well, that’s okay then, the person I’m asking about is 
a wizard. So he can come back, right?” 

Nick turned away from the window and looked 
mournfully at Harry. “He won’t come back.” 

“Who?” 

“Sirius Black,” said Nick. 

“But you did!” said Harry angrily. “You came back — 
you’re dead and you didn’t disappear — ” 

“Wizards can leave an imprint of themselves upon the 
earth, to walk palely where their living selves once 
trod,” said Nick miserably. “But very few wizards 
choose that path.” 

“Why not?” said Harry. “Anyway — it doesn’t matter 
— Sirius won’t care if it’s unusual, he’ll come back, I 
know he will!” 



Page | 1096Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And so strong was his belief that Harry actually 
turned his head to check the door, sure, for a split 
second, that he was going to see Sirius, pearly white 
and transparent but beaming, walking through it 
toward him. 

“He will not come back,” repeated Nick quietly. “He 
will have ... gone on.” 

“What d’you mean, ‘gone on’?” said Harry quickly. 
“Gone on where? Listen — what happens when you 
die, anyway? Where do you go? Why doesn’t everyone 
come back? Why isn’t this place full of ghosts? Why 
— ?” 

“I cannot answer,” said Nick. 

“You’re dead, aren’t you?” said Harry exasperatedly. 
“Who can answer better than you?” 

“I was afraid of death,” said Nick. “I chose to remain 
behind. I sometimes wonder whether I oughtn’t to 
have ... Well, that is neither here nor there... In fact, I 
am neither here nor there...” He gave a small sad 
chuckle. “I know nothing of the secrets of death, 

Harry, for I chose my feeble imitation of life instead. I 
believe learned wizards study the matter in the 
Department of Mysteries — ” 

“Don’t talk to me about that place!” said Harry 
fiercely. 

“I am sorry not to have been more help,” said Nick 
gently. “Well ... well, do excuse me ... the feast, you 
know ...” 

And he left the room, leaving Harry there alone, 
gazing blankly at the wall through which Nick had 
disappeared. 

Page | 1097Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry felt almost as though he had lost his godfather 
all over again in losing the hope that he might be able 
to see or speak to him once more. He walked slowly 
and miserably back up through the empty castle, 
wondering whether he would ever feel cheerful again. 

He had turned the corner toward the Fat Lady’s 
corridor when he saw somebody up ahead fastening a 
note to a board on the wall. A second glance showed 
him that it was Luna. There were no good hiding 
places nearby, she was bound to have heard his 
footsteps, and in any case, Harry could hardly muster 
the energy to avoid anyone at the moment. 

“Hello,” said Luna vaguely, glancing around at him as 
she stepped back from the notice. 

“How come you’re not at the feast?” Harry asked. 

“Well, I’ve lost most of my possessions,” said Luna 
serenely. “People take them and hide them, you know. 
But as it’s the last night, I really do need them back, 
