
      “Thanks—I don’t know that it’s much of a subject for
      congratulation.”

      “No?” queried young Jolyon; “I should have thought you’d be glad
      to get a long job like that off your hands; but I suppose you
      feel it much as I do when I part with a picture—a sort of child?”

      He looked kindly at Bosinney.

      “Yes,” said the latter more cordially, “it goes out from you and
      there’s an end of it. I didn’t know you painted.”

      “Only water-colours; I can’t say I believe in my work.”

      “Don’t believe in it? There—how can you do it? Work’s no use
      unless you believe in it!”

      “Good,” said young Jolyon; “it’s exactly what I’ve always said.
      By-the-bye, have you noticed that whenever one says ‘Good,’ one
      always adds ‘it’s exactly what I’ve always said’. But if you ask
      me how I do it, I answer, because I’m a Forsyte.”

      “A Forsyte! I never thought of you as one!”

      “A Forsyte,” replied young Jolyon, “is not an uncommon animal.
      There are hundreds among the members of this Club. Hundreds out
      there in the streets; you meet them wherever you go!”

      “And how do you tell them, may I ask?” said Bosinney.

      “By their sense of property. A Forsyte takes a practical—one
      might say a commonsense—view of things, and a practical view of
      things is based fundamentally on a sense of property. A Forsyte,
      you will notice, never gives himself away.”

      “Joking?”

      Young Jolyon’s eye twinkled.

      “Not much. As a Forsyte myself, I have no business to talk. But
      I’m a kind of thoroughbred mongrel; now, there’s no mistaking
      you: You’re as different from me as I am from my Uncle James, who
      is the perfect specimen of a Forsyte. His sense of property is
      extreme, while you have practically none. Without me in between,
      you would seem like a different species. I’m the missing link. We
      are, of course, all of us the slaves of property, and I admit
      that it’s a question of degree, but what I call a ‘Forsyte’ is a
      man who is decidedly more than less a slave of property. He knows
      a good thing, he knows a safe thing, and his grip on property—it
      doesn’t matter whether it be wives, houses, money, or
      reputation—is his hall-mark.”

      “Ah!” murmured Bosinney. “You should patent the word.”

      “I should like,” said young Jolyon, “to lecture on it:

      “Properties and quality of a Forsyte: This little animal,
      disturbed by the ridicule of his own sort, is unaffected in his
      motions by the laughter of strange creatures (you or I).
      Hereditarily disposed to myopia, he recognises only the persons
      of his own species, amongst which he passes an existence of
      competitive tranquillity.”

      “You talk of them,” said Bosinney, “as if they were half
      England.”

      “They are,” repeated young Jolyon, “half England, and the better
      half, too, the safe half, the three per cent. half, the half that
      counts. It’s their wealth and security that makes everything
      possible; makes your art possible, makes literature, science,
      even religion, possible. Without Forsytes, who believe in none of
      these things, and habitats but turn them all to use, where should
      we be? My dear sir, the Forsytes are the middlemen, the
      commercials, the pillars of society, the cornerstones of
      convention; everything that is admirable!”

      “I don’t know whether I catch your drift,” said Bosinney, “but I
      fancy there are plenty of Forsytes, as you call them, in my
      profession.”

      “Certainly,” replied young Jolyon. “The great majority of
      architects, painters, or writers have no principles, like any
      other Forsytes. Art, literature, religion, survive by virtue of
      the few cranks who really believe in such things, and the many
      Forsytes who make a commercial use of them. At a low estimate,
      three-fourths of our Royal Academicians are Forsytes,
      seven-eighths of our novelists, a large proportion of the press.
      Of science I can’t speak; they are magnificently represented in
      religion; in the House of Commons perhaps more numerous than
      anywhere; the aristocracy speaks for itself. But I’m not
      laughing. It is dangerous to go against the majority and what a
      majority!” He fixed his eyes on Bosinney: “It’s dangerous to let
      anything carry you away—a house, a picture, a—woman!”

      They looked at each other.—And, as though he had done that which
      no Forsyte did—given himself away, young Jolyon drew into his
      shell. Bosinney broke the silence.

      “Why do you take your own people as the type?” said he.

      “My people,” replied young Jolyon, “are not very extreme, and
      they have their own private peculiarities, like every other
      family, but they possess in a remarkable degree those two
      qualities which are the real tests of a Forsyte—the power of
      never being able to give yourself up to anything soul and body,
      and the ‘sense of property’.”

      Bosinney smiled: “How about the big one, for instance?”

      “Do you mean Swithin?” asked young Jolyon. “Ah! in Swithin
      there’s something primeval still. The town and middle-class life
      haven’t digested him yet. All the old centuries of farm work and
      brute force have settled in him, and there they’ve stuck, for all
      he’s so distinguished.”

      Bosinney seemed to ponder. “Well, you’ve hit your cousin Soames
      off to the life,” he said suddenly. “_He’ll_ never blow his
      brains out.”

      Young Jolyon shot at him a penetrating glance.

      “No,” he said; “he won’t. That’s why he’s to be reckoned with.
      Look out for their grip! It’s easy to laugh, but don’t mistake
      me. It doesn’t do to despise a Forsyte; it doesn’t do to
      disregard them!”

      “Yet you’ve done it yourself!”

      Young Jolyon acknowledged the hit by losing his smile.

      “You forget,” he said with a queer pride, “I can hold on, too—I’m
      a Forsyte myself. We’re all in the path of great forces. The man
      who leaves the shelter of the wall—well—you know what I mean. I
      don’t,” he ended very low, as though uttering a threat,
      “recommend every man to-go-my-way. It depends.”

      The colour rushed into Bosinney’s face, but soon receded, leaving
      it sallow-brown as before. He gave a short laugh, that left his
      lips fixed in a queer, fierce smile; his eyes mocked young
      Jolyon.

      “Thanks,” he said. “It’s deuced kind of you. But you’re not the
      only chaps that can hold on.” He rose.

      Young Jolyon looked after him as he walked away, and, resting his
      head on his hand, sighed.

      In the drowsy, almost empty room the only sounds were the rustle
      of newspapers, the scraping of matches being struck. He stayed a
      long time without moving, living over again those days when he,
      too, had sat long hours watching the clock, waiting for the
      minutes to pass—long hours full of the torments of uncertainty,
      and of a fierce, sweet aching; and the slow, delicious agony of
      that season came back to him with its old poignancy. The sight of
      Bosinney, with his haggard face, and his restless eyes always
      wandering to the clock, had roused in him a pity, with which was
      mingled strange, irresistible envy.

      He knew the signs so well. Whither was he going—to what sort of
      fate? What kind of woman was it who was drawing him to her by
      that magnetic force which no consideration of honour, no
      principle, no interest could withstand; from which the only
      escape was flight.

      Flight! But why should Bosinney fly? A man fled when he was in
      danger of destroying hearth and home, when there were children,
      when he felt himself trampling down ideals, breaking something.
      But here, so he had heard, it was all broken to his hand.

      He himself had not fled, nor would he fly if it were all to come
      over again. Yet he had gone further than Bosinney, had broken up
      his own unhappy home, not someone else’s: And the old saying came
      back to him: “A man’s fate lies in his own heart.”

      In his own heart! The proof of the pudding was in the
      eating—Bosinney had still to eat his pudding.

      His thoughts passed to the woman, the woman whom he did not know,
      but the outline of whose story he had heard.

      An unhappy marriage! No ill-treatment—only that indefinable
      malaise, that terrible blight which killed all sweetness under
      Heaven; and so from day to day, from night to night, from week to
      week, from year to year, till death should end it.

      But young Jolyon, the bitterness of whose own feelings time had
      assuaged, saw Soames’s side of the question too. Whence should a
      man like his cousin, saturated with all the prejudices and
      beliefs of his class, draw the insight or inspiration necessary
      to break up this life? It was a question of imagination, of
      projecting himself into the future beyond the unpleasant gossip,
      sneers, and tattle that followed on such separations, beyond the
      passing pangs that the lack of the sight of her would cause,
      beyond the grave disapproval of the worthy. But few men, and
      especially few men of Soames’s class, had imagination enough for
      that. A deal of mortals in this world, and not enough imagination
      to go round! And sweet Heaven, what a difference between theory
      and practice; many a man, perhaps even Soames, held chivalrous
      views on such matters, who when the shoe pinched found a
      distinguishing factor that made of himself an exception.

      Then, too, he distrusted his judgment. He had been through the
      experience himself, had tasted to the dregs the bitterness of an
      unhappy marriage, and how could he take the wide and
      dispassionate view of those who had never been within sound of
      the battle? His evidence was too first-hand—like the evidence on
      military matters of a soldier who has been through much active
      service, against that of civilians who have not suffered the
      disadvantage of seeing things too close. Most people would
      consider such a marriage as that of Soames and Irene quite fairly
      successful; he had money, she had beauty; it was a case for
      compromise. There was no reason why they should not jog along,
      even if they hated each other. It would not matter if they went
      their own ways a little so long as the decencies were
      observed—the sanctity of the marriage tie, of the common home,
      respected. Half the marriages of the upper classes were conducted
      on these lines: Do not offend the susceptibilities of Society; do
      not offend the susceptibilities of the Church. To avoid offending
      these is worth the sacrifice of any private feelings. The
      advantages of the stable home are visible, tangible, so many
      pieces of property; there is no risk in the _statu quo_. To break
      up a home is at the best a dangerous experiment, and selfish into
      the bargain.

      This was the case for the defence, and young Jolyon sighed.

      “The core of it all,” he thought, “is property, but there are
      many people who would not like it put that way. To them it is
      ‘the sanctity of the marriage tie’; but the sanctity of the
      marriage tie is dependent on the sanctity of the family, and the
      sanctity of the family is dependent on the sanctity of property.
      And yet I imagine all these people are followers of One who never
      owned anything. It is curious!”

      And again young Jolyon sighed.

      “Am I going on my way home to ask any poor devils I meet to share
      my dinner, which will then be too little for myself, or, at all
      events, for my wife, who is necessary to my health and happiness?
      It may be that after all Soames does well to exercise his rights
      and support by his practice the sacred principle of property
      which benefits us all, with the exception of those who suffer by
      the process.”

      And so he left his chair, threaded his way through the maze of
      seats, took his hat, and languidly up the hot streets crowded
      with carriages, reeking with dusty odours, wended his way home.

      Before reaching Wistaria Avenue he removed old Jolyon’s letter
      from his pocket, and tearing it carefully into tiny pieces,
      scattered them in the dust of the road.

      He let himself in with his key, and called his wife’s name. But
      she had gone out, taking Jolly and Holly, and the house was
      empty; alone in the garden the dog Balthasar lay in the shade
      snapping at flies.

      Young Jolyon took his seat there, too, under the pear-tree that
      bore no fruit.




      CHAPTER XI BOSINNEY ON PAROLE

      The day after the evening at Richmond Soames returned from Henley
      by a morning train. Not constitutionally interested in amphibious
      sports, his visit had been one of business rather than pleasure,
      a client of some importance having asked him down.

      He went straight to the City, but finding things slack, he left
      at three o’clock, glad of this chance to get home quietly. Irene
      did not expect him. Not that he had any desire to spy on her
      actions, but there was no harm in thus unexpectedly surveying the
      scene.

      After changing to Park clothes he went into the drawing-room. She
      was sitting idly in the corner of the sofa, her favourite seat;
      and there were circles under her eyes, as though she had not
      slept.

      He asked: “How is it you’re in? Are you expecting somebody?”

      “Yes—that is, not particularly.”

      “Who?”

      “Mr. Bosinney said he might come.”

      “Bosinney. He ought to be at work.”

      To this she made no answer.

      “Well,” said Soames, “I want you to come out to the Stores with
      me, and after that we’ll go to the Park.”

      “I don’t want to go out; I have a headache.”

      Soames replied: “If ever I want you to do anything, you’ve always
      got a headache. It’ll do you good to come and sit under the
      trees.”

      She did not answer.

      Soames was silent for some minutes; at last he said: “I don’t
      know what your idea of a wife’s duty is. I never have known!”

      He had not expected her to reply, but she did.

      “I have tried to do what you want; it’s not my fault that I
      haven’t been able to put my heart into it.”

      “Whose fault is it, then?” He watched her askance.

      “Before we were married you promised to let me go if our marriage
      was not a success. Is it a success?”

      Soames frowned.

      “Success,” he stammered—“it would be a success if you behaved
      yourself properly!”

      “I have tried,” said Irene. “Will you let me go?”

      Soames turned away. Secretly alarmed, he took refuge in bluster.

      “Let you go? You don’t know what you’re talking about. Let you
      go? How can I let you go? We’re married, aren’t we? Then, what
      are you talking about? For God’s sake, don’t let’s have any of
      this sort of nonsense! Get your hat on, and come and sit in the
      Park.”

      “Then, you won’t let me go?”

      He felt her eyes resting on him with a strange, touching look.

      “Let you go!” he said; “and what on earth would you do with
      yourself if I did? You’ve got no money!”

      “I could manage somehow.”

      He took a swift turn up and down the room; then came and stood
      before her.

      “Understand,” he said, “once and for all, I won’t have you say
      this sort of thing. Go and get your hat on!”

      She did not move.

      “I suppose,” said Soames, “you don’t want to miss Bosinney if he
      comes!”

      Irene got up slowly and left the room. She came down with her hat
      on.

      They went out.

      In the Park, the motley hour of mid-afternoon, when foreigners
      and other pathetic folk drive, thinking themselves to be in
      fashion, had passed; the right, the proper, hour had come, was
      nearly gone, before Soames and Irene seated themselves under the
      Achilles statue.

      It was some time since he had enjoyed her company in the Park.
      That was one of the past delights of the first two seasons of his
      married life, when to feel himself the possessor of this gracious
      creature before all London had been his greatest, though secret,
      pride. How many afternoons had he not sat beside her, extremely
      neat, with light grey gloves and faint, supercilious smile,
      nodding to acquaintances, and now and again removing his hat.

      His light grey gloves were still on his hands, and on his lips
      his smile sardonic, but where the feeling in his heart?

      The seats were emptying fast, but still he kept her there, silent
      and pale, as though to work out a secret punishment. Once or
      twice he made some comment, and she bent her head, or answered
      “Yes” with a tired smile.

      Along the rails a man was walking so fast that people stared
      after him when he passed.

      “Look at that ass!” said Soames; “he must be mad to walk like
      that in this heat!”

      He turned; Irene had made a rapid movement.

      “Hallo!” he said: “it’s our friend the Buccaneer!”

      And he sat still, with his sneering smile, conscious that Irene
      was sitting still, and smiling too.

      “Will she bow to him?” he thought.

      But she made no sign.

      Bosinney reached the end of the rails, and came walking back
      amongst the chairs, quartering his ground like a pointer. When he
      saw them he stopped dead, and raised his hat.

      The smile never left Soames’s face; he also took off his hat.

      Bosinney came up, looking exhausted, like a man after hard
      physical exercise; the sweat stood in drops on his brow, and
      Soames’ smile seemed to say: “You’ve had a trying time, my
      friend.... What are _you_ doing in the Park?” he asked. “We
      thought you despised such frivolity!”

      Bosinney did not seem to hear; he made his answer to Irene: “I’ve
      been round to your place; I hoped I should find you in.”

      Somebody tapped Soames on the back, and spoke to him; and in the
      exchange of those platitudes over his shoulder, he missed her
      answer, and took a resolution.

      “We’re just going in,” he said to Bosinney; “you’d better come
      back to dinner with us.” Into that invitation he put a strange
      bravado, a stranger pathos: “You, can’t deceive me,” his look and
      voice seemed saying, “but see—I trust you—I’m not afraid of you!”

      They started back to Montpellier Square together, Irene between
      them. In the crowded streets Soames went on in front. He did not
      listen to their conversation; the strange resolution of
      trustfulness he had taken seemed to animate even his secret
      conduct. Like a gambler, he said to himself: “It’s a card I dare
      not throw away—I must play it for what it’s worth. I have not too
      many chances.”

      He dressed slowly, heard her leave her room and go downstairs,
      and, for full five minutes after, dawdled about in his
      dressing-room. Then he went down, purposely shutting the door
      loudly to show that he was coming. He found them standing by the
      hearth, perhaps talking, perhaps not; he could not say.

      He played his part out in the farce, the long evening through—his
      manner to his guest more friendly than it had ever been before;
      and when at last Bosinney went, he said: “You must come again
      soon; Irene likes to have you to talk about the house!” Again his
      voice had the strange bravado and the stranger pathos; but his
      hand was cold as ice.

      Loyal to his resolution, he turned away from their parting,
      turned away from his wife as she stood under the hanging lamp to
      say good-night—away from the sight of her golden head shining so
      under the light, of her smiling mournful lips; away from the
      sight of Bosinney’s eyes looking at her, so like a dog’s looking
      at its master.

      And he went to bed with the certainty that Bosinney was in love
      with his wife.

      The summer night was hot, so hot and still that through every
      opened window came in but hotter air. For long hours he lay
      listening to her breathing.

      She could sleep, but he must lie awake. And, lying awake, he
      hardened himself to play the part of the serene and trusting
      husband.

      In the small hours he slipped out of bed, and passing into his
      dressing-room, leaned by the open window.

      He could hardly breathe.

      A night four years ago came back to him—the night but one before
      his marriage; as hot and stifling as this.

      He remembered how he had lain in a long cane chair in the window
      of his sitting-room off Victoria Street. Down below in a side
      street a man had banged at a door, a woman had cried out; he
      remembered, as though it were now, the sound of the scuffle, the
      slam of the door, the dead silence that followed. And then the
      early water-cart, cleansing the reek of the streets, had
      approached through the strange-seeming, useless lamp-light; he
      seemed to hear again its rumble, nearer and nearer, till it
      passed and slowly died away.

      He leaned far out of the dressing-room window over the little
      court below, and saw the first light spread. The outlines of dark
      walls and roofs were blurred for a moment, then came out sharper
      than before.

      He remembered how that other night he had watched the lamps
      paling all the length of Victoria Street; how he had hurried on
      his clothes and gone down into the street, down past houses and
      squares, to the street where she was staying, and there had stood
      and looked at the front of the little house, as still and grey as
      the face of a dead man.

      And suddenly it shot through his mind; like a sick man’s fancy:
      What’s _he_ doing?—that fellow who haunts me, who was here this
      evening, who’s in love with my wife—prowling out there, perhaps,
      looking for her as I know he was looking for her this afternoon;
      watching my house now, for all I can tell!

      He stole across the landing to the front of the house, stealthily
      drew aside a blind, and raised a window.

      The grey light clung about the trees of the square, as though
      Night, like a great downy moth, had brushed them with her wings.
      The lamps were still alight, all pale, but not a soul stirred—no
      living thing in sight.

      Yet suddenly, very faint, far off in the deathly stillness, he
      heard a cry writhing, like the voice of some wandering soul
      barred out of heaven, and crying for its happiness. There it was
      again—again! Soames shut the window, shuddering.

      Then he thought: “Ah! it’s only the peacocks, across the water.”




      CHAPTER XII JUNE PAYS SOME CALLS

      Jolyon stood in the narrow hall at Broadstairs, inhaling that
      odour of oilcloth and herrings which permeates all respectable
      seaside lodging-houses. On a chair—a shiny leather chair,
      displaying its horsehair through a hole in the top left-hand
      corner—stood a black despatch case. This he was filling with
      papers, with the _Times_, and a bottle of Eau-de Cologne. He had
      meetings that day of the “Globular Gold Concessions” and the “New
      Colliery Company, Limited,” to which he was going up, for he
      never missed a Board; to “miss a Board” would be one more piece
      of evidence that he was growing old, and this his jealous Forsyte
      spirit could not bear.

      His eyes, as he filled that black despatch case, looked as if at
      any moment they might blaze up with anger. So gleams the eye of a
      schoolboy, baited by a ring of his companions; but he controls
      himself, deterred by the fearful odds against him. And old Jolyon
      controlled himself, keeping down, with his masterful restraint
      now slowly wearing out, the irritation fostered in him by the
      conditions of his life.

      He had received from his son an unpractical letter, in which by
      rambling generalities the boy seemed trying to get out of
      answering a plain question. “I’ve seen Bosinney,” he said; “he is
      not a criminal. The more I see of people the more I am convinced
      that they are never good or bad—merely comic, or pathetic. You
      probably don’t agree with me!”

      Old Jolyon did not; he considered it cynical to so express
      oneself; he had not yet reached that point of old age when even
      Forsytes, bereft of those illusions and principles which they
      have cherished carefully for practical purposes but never
      believed in, bereft of all corporeal enjoyment, stricken to the
      very heart by having nothing left to hope for—break through the
      barriers of reserve and say things they would never have believed
      themselves capable of saying.

      Perhaps he did not believe in “goodness” and “badness” any more
      than his son; but as he would have said: He didn’t know—couldn’t
      tell; there might be something in it; and why, by an unnecessary
      expression of disbelief, deprive yourself of possible advantage?

      Accustomed to spend his holidays among the mountains, though
      (like a true Forsyte) he had never attempted anything too
      adventurous or too foolhardy, he had been passionately fond of
      them. And when the wonderful view (mentioned in
      Baedeker—“fatiguing but repaying”.—was disclosed to him after the
      effort of the climb, he had doubtless felt the existence of some
      great, dignified principle crowning the chaotic strivings, the
      petty precipices, and ironic little dark chasms of life. This was
      as near to religion, perhaps, as his practical spirit had ever
      gone.

      But it was many years since he had been to the mountains. He had
      taken June there two seasons running, after his wife died, and
      had realized bitterly that his walking days were over.

      To that old mountain—given confidence in a supreme order of
      things he had long been a stranger.

      He knew himself to be old, yet he felt young; and this troubled
      him. It troubled and puzzled him, too, to think that he, who had
      always been so careful, should be father and grandfather to such
      as seemed born to disaster. He had nothing to say against Jo—who
      could say anything against the boy, an amiable chap?—but his
      position was deplorable, and this business of Jun’s nearly as
      bad. It seemed like a fatality, and a fatality was one of those
      things no man of his character could either understand or put up
      with.

      In writing to his son he did not really hope that anything would
      come of it. Since the ball at Roger’s he had seen too clearly how
      the land lay—he could put two and two together quicker than most
      men—and, with the example of his own son before his eyes, knew
      better than any Forsyte of them all that the pale flame singes
      men’s wings whether they will or no.

      In the days before Jun’s engagement, when she and Mrs. Soames
      were always together, he had seen enough of Irene to feel the
      spell she cast over men. She was not a flirt, not even a
      coquette—words dear to the heart of his generation, which loved
      to define things by a good, broad, inadequate word—but she was
      dangerous. He could not say why. Tell him of a quality innate in
      some women—a seductive power beyond their own control! He would
      but answer: “Humbug!” She was dangerous, and there was an end of
      it. He wanted to close his eyes to that affair. If it was, it
      was; _he_ did not want to hear any more about it—he only wanted
      to save Jun’s position and her peace of mind. He still hoped she
      might once more become a comfort to himself.

      And so he had written. He got little enough out of the answer. As
      to what young Jolyon had made of the interview, there was
      practically only the queer sentence: “I gather that he’s in the
      stream.” The stream! What stream? What was this new-fangled way
      of talking?

      He sighed, and folded the last of the papers under the flap of
      the bag; he knew well enough what was meant.

      June came out of the dining-room, and helped him on with his
      summer coat. From her costume, and the expression of her little
      resolute face, he saw at once what was coming.

      “I’m going with you,” she said.

      “Nonsense, my dear; I go straight into the City. I can’t have you
      racketting about!”

      “I must see old Mrs. Smeech.”

      “Oh, your precious ‘lame ducks’!” grumbled out old Jolyon. He did
      not believe her excuse, but ceased his opposition. There was no
      doing anything with that pertinacity of hers.

      At Victoria he put her into the carriage which had been ordered
      for himself—a characteristic action, for he had no petty
      selfishnesses.

      “Now, don’t you go tiring yourself, my darling,” he said, and
      took a cab on into the city.

      June went first to a back-street in Paddington, where Mrs.
      Smeech, her “lame duck,” lived—an aged person, connected with the
      charring interest; but after half an hour spent in hearing her
      habitually lamentable recital, and dragooning her into temporary
      comfort, she went on to Stanhope Gate. The great house was closed
      and dark.

      She had decided to learn something at all costs. It was better to
      face the worst, and have it over. And this was her plan: To go
      first to Phil’s aunt, Mrs. Baynes, and, failing information
      there, to Irene herself. She had no clear notion of what she
      would gain by these visits.

      At three o’clock she was in Lowndes Square. With a woman’s
      instinct when trouble is to be faced, she had put on her best
      frock, and went to the battle with a glance as courageous as old
      Jolyon’s itself. Her tremors had passed into eagerness.

      Mrs. Baynes, Bosinney’s aunt (Louisa was her name), was in her
      kitchen when June was announced, organizing the cook, for she was
      an excellent housewife, and, as Baynes always said, there was “a
      lot in a good dinner.” He did his best work after dinner. It was
      Baynes who built that remarkably fine row of tall crimson houses
      in Kensington which compete with so many others for the title of
      “the ugliest in London.”

      On hearing Jun’s name, she went hurriedly to her bedroom, and,
      taking two large bracelets from a red morocco case in a locked
      drawer, put them on her white wrists—for she possessed in a
      remarkable degree that “sense of property,” which, as we know, is
      the touchstone of Forsyteism, and the foundation of good
      morality.

      Her figure, of medium height and broad build, with a tendency to
      embonpoint, was reflected by the mirror of her whitewood
      wardrobe, in a gown made under her own organization, of one of
      those half-tints, reminiscent of the distempered walls of
      corridors in large hotels. She raised her hands to her hair,
      which she wore _à la_ Princesse de Galles, and touched it here
      and there, settling it more firmly on her head, and her eyes were
      full of an unconscious realism, as though she were looking in the
      face one of life’s sordid facts, and making the best of it. In
      youth her cheeks had been of cream and roses, but they were
      mottled now by middle-age, and again that hard, ugly directness
      came into her eyes as she dabbed a powder-puff across her
      forehead. Putting the puff down, she stood quite still before the
      glass, arranging a smile over her high, important nose, her chin,
      (never large, and now growing smaller with the increase of her
      neck), her thin-lipped, down-drooping mouth. Quickly, not to lose
      the effect, she grasped her skirts strongly in both hands, and
      went downstairs.

      She had been hoping for this visit for some time past. Whispers
      had reached her that things were not all right between her nephew
      and his fiancée. Neither of them had been near her for weeks. She
      had asked Phil to dinner many times; his invariable answer had
      been “Too busy.”

      Her instinct was alarmed, and the instinct in such matters of
      this excellent woman was keen. She ought to have been a Forsyte;
      in young Jolyon’s sense of the word, she certainly had that
      privilege, and merits description as such.

      She had married off her three daughters in a way that people said
      was beyond their deserts, for they had the professional plainness
      only to be found, as a rule, among the female kind of the more
      legal callings. Her name was upon the committees of numberless
      charities connected with the Church-dances, theatricals, or
      bazaars—and she never lent her name unless sure beforehand that
      everything had been thoroughly organized.

      She believed, as she often said, in putting things on a
      commercial basis; the proper function of the Church, of charity,
      indeed, of everything, was to strengthen the fabric of “Society.”
      Individual action, therefore, she considered immoral.
      Organization was the only thing, for by organization alone could
      you feel sure that you were getting a return for your money.
      Organization—and again, organization! And there is no doubt that
      she was what old Jolyon called her—“a ‘dab’ at that”—he went
      further, he called her “a humbug.”

      The enterprises to which she lent her name were organized so
      admirably that by the time the takings were handed over, they
      were indeed skim milk divested of all cream of human kindness.
      But as she often justly remarked, sentiment was to be deprecated.
      She was, in fact, a little academic.

      This great and good woman, so highly thought of in ecclesiastical
      circles, was one of the principal priestesses in the temple of
      Forsyteism, keeping alive day and night a sacred flame to the God
      of Property, whose altar is inscribed with those inspiring words:
      “Nothing for nothing, and really remarkably little for sixpence.”

      When she entered a room it was felt that something substantial
      had come in, which was probably the reason of her popularity as a
      patroness. People liked something substantial when they had paid
      money for it; and they would look at her—surrounded by her staff
      in charity ballrooms, with her high nose and her broad, square
      figure, attired in an uniform covered with sequins—as though she
      were a general.

      The only thing against her was that she had not a double name.
      She was a power in upper middle-class society, with its hundred
      sets and circles, all intersecting on the common battlefield of
      charity functions, and on that battlefield brushing skirts so
      pleasantly with the skirts of Society with the capital “S.” She
      was a power in society with the smaller “s,” that larger, more
      significant, and more powerful body, where the commercially
      Christian institutions, maxims, and “principle,” which Mrs.
      Baynes embodied, were real life-blood, circulating freely, real
      business currency, not merely the sterilized imitation that
      flowed in the veins of smaller Society with the larger “S.”
      People who knew her felt her to be sound—a sound woman, who never
      gave herself away, nor anything else, if she could possibly help
      it.

      She had been on the worst sort of terms with Bosinney’s father,
      who had not infrequently made her the object of an unpardonable
      ridicule. She alluded to him now that he was gone as her “poor,
      dear, irreverend brother.”

      She greeted June with the careful effusion of which she was a
      mistress, a little afraid of her as far as a woman of her
      eminence in the commercial and Christian world could be
      afraid—for so slight a girl June had a great dignity, the
      fearlessness of her eyes gave her that. And Mrs. Baynes, too,
      shrewdly recognized that behind the uncompromising frankness of
      Jun’s manner there was much of the Forsyte. If the girl had been
      merely frank and courageous, Mrs. Baynes would have thought her
      “cranky,” and despised her; if she had been merely a Forsyte,
      like Francie—let us say—she would have patronized her from sheer
      weight of metal; but June, small though she was—Mrs. Baynes
      habitually admired quantity—gave her an uneasy feeling; and she
      placed her in a chair opposite the light.

      There was another reason for her respect which Mrs. Baynes, too
      good a churchwoman to be worldly, would have been the last to
      admit—she often heard her husband describe old Jolyon as
      extremely well off, and was biassed towards his granddaughter for
      the soundest of all reasons. To-day she felt the emotion with
      which we read a novel describing a hero and an inheritance,
      nervously anxious lest, by some frightful lapse of the novelist,
      the young man should be left without it at the end.

      Her manner was warm; she had never seen so clearly before how
      distinguished and desirable a girl this was. She asked after old
      Jolyon’s health. A wonderful man for his age; so upright, and
      young looking, and how old was he? Eighty-one! She would never
      have thought it! They were at the sea! Very nice for them; she
      supposed June heard from Phil every day? Her light grey eyes
      became more prominent as she asked this question; but the girl
      met the glance without flinching.

      “No,” she said, “he never writes!”

      Mrs. Baynes’s eyes dropped; they had no intention of doing so,
      but they did. They recovered immediately.

      “Of course not. That’s Phil all over—he was always like that!”

      “Was he?” said June.

      The brevity of the answer caused Mrs. Baynes’s bright smile a
      moment’s hesitation; she disguised it by a quick movement, and
      spreading her skirts afresh, said: “Why, my dear—he’s quite the
      most harum-scarum person; one never pays the slightest attention
      to what _he_ does!”

      The conviction came suddenly to June that she was wasting her
      time; even were she to put a question point-blank, she would
      never get anything out of this woman.

      “Do you see him?” she asked, her face crimsoning.

      The perspiration broke out on Mrs. Baynes’ forehead beneath the
      powder.

      “Oh, yes! I don’t remember when he was here last—indeed, we
      haven’t seen much of him lately. He’s so busy with your cousin’s
      house; I’m told it’ll be finished directly. We must organize a
      little dinner to celebrate the event; do come and stay the night
      with us!”

      “Thank you,” said June. Again she thought: “I’m only wasting my
      time. This woman will tell me nothing.”

      She got up to go. A change came over Mrs. Baynes. She rose too;
      her lips twitched, she fidgeted her hands. Something was
      evidently very wrong, and she did not dare to ask this girl, who
      stood there, a slim, straight little figure, with her decided
      face, her set jaw, and resentful eyes. She was not accustomed to
      be afraid of asking questions—all organization was based on the
      asking of questions!

      But the issue was so grave that her nerve, normally strong, was
      fairly shaken; only that morning her husband had said: “Old Mr.
      Forsyte must be worth well over a hundred thousand pounds!”

      And this girl stood there, holding out her hand—holding out her
      hand!

      The chance might be slipping away—she couldn’t tell—the chance of
      keeping her in the family, and yet she dared not speak.

      Her eyes followed June to the door.

      It closed.

      Then with an exclamation Mrs. Baynes ran forward, wobbling her
      bulky frame from side to side, and opened it again.

      Too late! She heard the front door click, and stood still, an
      expression of real anger and mortification on her face.

      June went along the Square with her bird-like quickness. She
      detested that woman now whom in happier days she had been
      accustomed to think so kind. Was she always to be put off thus,
      and forced to undergo this torturing suspense?

      She would go to Phil himself, and ask him what he meant. She had
      the right to know. She hurried on down Sloane Street till she
      came to Bosinney’s number. Passing the swing-door at the bottom,
      she ran up the stairs, her heart thumping painfully.

      At the top of the third flight she paused for breath, and holding
      on to the bannisters, stood listening. No sound came from above.

      With a very white face she mounted the last flight. She saw the
      door, with his name on the plate. And the resolution that had
      brought her so far evaporated.

      The full meaning of her conduct came to her. She felt hot all
      over; the palms of her hands were moist beneath the thin silk
      covering of her gloves.

      She drew back to the stairs, but did not descend. Leaning against
      the rail she tried to get rid of a feeling of being choked; and
      she gazed at the door with a sort of dreadful courage. No! she
      refused to go down. Did it matter what people thought of her?
      They would never know! No one would help her if she did not help
      herself! She would go through with it.

      Forcing herself, therefore, to leave the support of the wall, she
      rang the bell. The door did not open, and all her shame and fear
      suddenly abandoned her; she rang again and again, as though in
      spite of its emptiness she could drag some response out of that
      closed room, some recompense for the shame and fear that visit
      had cost her. It did not open; she left off ringing, and, sitting
      down at the top of the stairs, buried her face in her hands.

      Presently she stole down, out into the air. She felt as though
      she had passed through a bad illness, and had no desire now but
      to get home as quickly as she could. The people she met seemed to
      know where she had been, what she had been doing; and
      suddenly—over on the opposite side, going towards his rooms from
      the direction of Montpellier Square—she saw Bosinney himself.

      She made a movement to cross into the traffic. Their eyes met,
      and he raised his hat. An omnibus passed, obscuring her view;
      then, from the edge of the pavement, through a gap in the
      traffic, she saw him walking on.

      And June stood motionless, looking after him.




      CHAPTER XIII PERFECTION OF THE HOUSE

      “One mockturtle, clear; one oxtail; two glasses of port.”

      In the upper room at French’s, where a Forsyte could still get
      heavy English food, James and his son were sitting down to lunch.

      Of all eating-places James liked best to come here; there was
      something unpretentious, well-flavoured, and filling about it,
      and though he had been to a certain extent corrupted by the
      necessity for being fashionable, and the trend of habits keeping
      pace with an income that _would_ increase, he still hankered in
      quiet City moments after the tasty fleshpots of his earlier days.
      Here you were served by hairy English waiters in aprons; there
      was sawdust on the floor, and three round gilt looking-glasses
      hung just above the line of sight. They had only recently done
      away with the cubicles, too, in which you could have your chop,
      prime chump, with a floury-potato, without seeing your
      neighbours, like a gentleman.

      He tucked the top corner of his napkin behind the third button of
      his waistcoat, a practice he had been obliged to abandon years
      ago in the West End. He felt that he should relish his soup—the
      entire morning had been given to winding up the estate of an old
      friend.

      After filling his mouth with household bread, stale, he at once
      began: “How are you going down to Robin Hill? You going to take
      Irene? You’d better take her. I should think there’ll be a lot
      that’ll want seeing to.”

      Without looking up, Soames answered: “She won’t go.”

      “Won’t go? What’s the meaning of that? She’s going to live in the
      house, isn’t she?”

      Soames made no reply.

      “I don’t know what’s coming to women nowadays,” mumbled James; “I
      never used to have any trouble with them. She’s had too much
      liberty. She’s spoiled....”

      Soames lifted his eyes: “I won’t have anything said against her,”
      he said unexpectedly.

      The silence was only broken now by the supping of James’s soup.

      The waiter brought the two glasses of port, but Soames stopped
      him.

      “That’s not the way to serve port,” he said; “take them away, and
      bring the bottle.”

      Rousing himself from his reverie over the soup, James took one of
      his rapid shifting surveys of surrounding facts.

      “Your mother’s in bed,” he said; “you can have the carriage to
      take you down. I should think Irene’d like the drive. This young
      Bosinney’ll be there, I suppose, to show you over.”

      Soames nodded.

      “I should like to go and see for myself what sort of a job he’s
      made finishing off,” pursued James. “I’ll just drive round and
      pick you both up.”

      “I am going down by train,” replied Soames. “If you like to drive
      round and see, Irene might go with you, I can’t tell.”

      He signed to the waiter to bring the bill, which James paid.

      They parted at St. Paul’s, Soames branching off to the station,
      James taking his omnibus westwards.

      He had secured the corner seat next the conductor, where his long
      legs made it difficult for anyone to get in, and at all who
      passed him he looked resentfully, as if they had no business to
      be using up his air.

      He intended to take an opportunity this afternoon of speaking to
      Irene. A word in time saved nine; and now that she was going to
      live in the country there was a chance for her to turn over a new
      leaf! He could see that Soames wouldn’t stand very much more of
      her goings on!

      It did not occur to him to define what he meant by her “goings
      on”. the expression was wide, vague, and suited to a Forsyte. And
      James had more than his common share of courage after lunch.

      On reaching home, he ordered out the barouche, with special
      instructions that the groom was to go too. He wished to be kind
      to her, and to give her every chance.

      When the door of No.62 was opened he could distinctly hear her
      singing, and said so at once, to prevent any chance of being
      denied entrance.

