make sure that they were working properly. 

Amos Diggory’s head was sitting in the middle of the 
flames like a large, bearded egg. It was talking very 
fast, completely unperturbed by the sparks flying 
around it and the flames licking its ears. 

"... Muggle neighbors heard bangs and shouting, so 
they went and called those what-d’you-call-’ems — 
please-men. Arthur, you’ve got to get over there — ” 

“Here!” said Mrs. Weasley breathlessly, pushing a 
piece of parchment, a bottle of ink, and a crumpled 
quill into Mr. Weasley’s hands. 

“ — it’s a real stroke of luck I heard about it,” said Mr. 
Diggory’s head. “I had to come into the office early to 
send a couple of owls, and I found the Improper Use 
of Magic lot all setting off — if Rita Skeeter gets hold 
of this one, Arthur — ” 

“What does Mad-Eye say happened?” asked Mr. 
Weasley, unscrewing the ink bottle, loading up his 
quill, and preparing to take notes. 

Mr. Diggory’s head rolled its eyes. “Says he heard an 
intruder in his yard. Says he was creeping toward the 
house, but was ambushed by his dustbins.” 

“What did the dustbins do?” asked Mr. Weasley, 
scribbling frantically. 

“Made one hell of a noise and fired rubbish 
everywhere, as far as I can tell,” said Mr. Diggory. 
“Apparently one of them was still rocketing around 
when the please-men turned up — ” 

Mr. Weasley groaned. 

Page | 176 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“And what about the intruder?” 



“Arthur, you know Mad-Eye,” said Mr. Diggory’s head, 
rolling its eyes again. “Someone creeping into his yard 
in the dead of night? More likely there’s a very shell- 
shocked cat wandering around somewhere, covered in 
potato peelings. But if the Improper Use of Magic lot 
get their hands on Mad-Eye, he’s had it — think of 
his record — we’ve got to get him off on a minor 
charge, something in your department — what are 
exploding dustbins worth?” 

“Might be a caution,” said Mr. Weasley, still writing 
very fast, his brow furrowed. “Mad-Eye didn’t use his 
wand? He didn’t actually attack anyone?” 

“I’ll bet he leapt out of bed and started jinxing 
everything he could reach through the window,” said 
Mr. Diggory, “but they’ll have a job proving it, there 
aren’t any casualties.” 

“All right, I’m off,” Mr. Weasley said, and he stuffed 
the parchment with his notes on it into his pocket 
and dashed out of the kitchen again. 

Mr. Diggory’s head looked around at Mrs. Weasley. 

“Sorry about this, Molly,” it said, more calmly, 
“bothering you so early and everything . . . but Arthur’s 
the only one who can get Mad-Eye off, and Mad-Eye’s 
supposed to be starting his new job today. Why he 
had to choose last night ...” 

“Never mind, Amos,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Sure you 
won’t have a bit of toast or anything before you go?” 

“Oh go on, then,” said Mr. Diggory. 



Page | 177 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley took a piece of buttered toast from a 
stack on the kitchen table, put it into the fire tongs, 
and transferred it into Mr. Diggory’s mouth. 

“Fanks,” he said in a muffled voice, and then, with a 
small pop, vanished. 

Harry could hear Mr. Weasley calling hurried good- 
byes to Bill, Charlie, Percy, and the girls. Within five 
minutes, he was back in the kitchen, his robes on the 
right way now, dragging a comb through his hair. 

“I’d better hurry — you have a good term, boys,” said 
Mr. Weasley to Harry, Ron, and the twins, fastening a 
cloak over his shoulders and preparing to 
Disapparate. “Molly, are you going to be all right 
taking the kids to King’s Cross?” 

“Of course I will,” she said. “You just look after Mad- 
Eye, we’ll be fine.” 

As Mr. Weasley vanished, Bill and Charlie entered the 
kitchen. 

“Did someone say Mad-Eye?” Bill asked. “What’s he 
been up to now? 

“He says someone tried to break into his house last 
night,” said Mrs. Weasley. 

“Mad-Eye Moody?” said George thoughtfully, 
spreading marmalade on his toast. “Isn’t he that 
nutter — ” 

“Your father thinks very highly of Mad-Eye Moody,” 
said Mrs. Weasley sternly. 



Page | 178 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, well, Dad collects plugs, doesn’t he?” said Fred 
quietly as Mrs. Weasley left the room. “Birds of a 
feather ...” 

“Moody was a great wizard in his time,” said Bill. 

“He’s an old friend of Dumbledore’s, isn’t he?” said 
Charlie. 

“Dumbledore’s not what you’d call normal, though, is 
he?” said Fred. “I mean, I know he’s a genius and 
everything ...” 

“Who is Mad-Eye?” asked Harry. 

“He’s retired, used to work at the Ministry,” said 
Charlie. “I met him once when Dad took me into work 
with him. He was an Auror — one of the best ... a 
Dark wizard catcher,” he added, seeing Harry’s blank 
look. “Half the cells in Azkaban are full because of 
him. He made himself loads of enemies, though ... the 
families of people he caught, mainly . . . and I heard 
he’s been getting really paranoid in his old age. 
Doesn’t trust anyone anymore. Sees Dark wizards 
everywhere.” 

Bill and Charlie decided to come and see everyone off 
at King’s Cross station, but Percy, apologizing most 
profusely, said that he really needed to get to work. 

“I just can’t justify taking more time off at the 
moment,” he told them. “Mr. Crouch is really starting 
to rely on me.” 

“Yeah, you know what, Percy?” said George seriously. 
“I reckon he’ll know your name soon.” 



Page | 179 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley had braved the telephone in the village 
post office to order three ordinary Muggle taxis to take 
them into London. 



“Arthur tried to borrow Ministry cars for us,” Mrs. 
Weasley whispered to Harry as they stood in the rain- 
washed yard, watching the taxi drivers heaving six 
heavy Hogwarts trunks into their cars. “But there 
weren’t any to spare. ... Oh dear, they don’t look 
happy, do they?” 

Harry didn’t like to tell Mrs. Weasley that Muggle taxi 
drivers rarely transported overexcited owls, and 
Pigwidgeon was making an earsplitting racket. Nor 
did it help that a number of Filibuster’s Fabulous 
Wet-Start, No-Heat Fireworks went off unexpectedly 
when Fred’s trunk sprang open, causing the driver 
carrying it to yell with fright and pain as Crookshanks 
clawed his way up the man’s leg. 

The journey was uncomfortable, owing to the fact that 
they were jammed in the back of the taxis with their 
trunks. Crookshanks took quite a while to recover 
from the fireworks, and by the time they entered 
London, Harry, Ron, and Hermione were all severely 
scratched. They were very relieved to get out at King’s 
Cross, even though the rain was coming down harder 
than ever, and they got soaked carrying their trunks 
across the busy road and into the station. 

Harry was used to getting onto platform nine and 
three-quarters by now. It was a simple matter of 
walking straight through the apparently solid barrier 
dividing platforms nine and ten. The only tricky part 
was doing this in an unobtrusive way, so as to avoid 
attracting Muggle attention. They did it in groups 
today; Harry, Ron, and Hermione (the most 
conspicuous, since they were accompanied by 
Pigwidgeon and Crookshanks) went first; they leaned 
Page | 180 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




casually against the barrier, chatting unconcernedly, 
and slid sideways through it ... and as they did so, 
platform nine and three-quarters materialized in front 
of them. 

The Hogwarts Express, a gleaming scarlet steam 
engine, was already there, clouds of steam billowing 
from it, through which the many Hogwarts students 
and parents on the platform appeared like dark 
ghosts. Pigwidgeon became noisier than ever in 
response to the hooting of many owls through the 
mist. Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off to find seats, 
and were soon stowing their luggage in a 
compartment halfway along the train. They then 
hopped back down onto the platform to say good-bye 
to Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and Charlie. 

“I might be seeing you all sooner than you think,” 
said Charlie, grinning, as he hugged Ginny good-bye. 

“Why?” said Fred keenly. 

“You’ll see,” said Charlie. “Just don’t tell Percy I 
mentioned it ... it’s ‘classified information, until such 
time as the Ministry sees fit to release it,’ after all.” 

“Yeah, I sort of wish I were back at Hogwarts this 
year,” said Bill, hands in his pockets, looking almost 
wistfully at the train. 

“Why?” said George impatiently. 

“You’re going to have an interesting year,” said Bill, 
his eyes twinkling. “I might even get time off to come 
and watch a bit of it. ...” 

“A bit of what?” said Ron. 



Page | 181 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But at that moment, the whistle blew, and Mrs. 
Weasley chivvied them toward the train doors. 

“Thanks for having us to stay, Mrs. Weasley,” said 
Hermione as they climbed on board, closed the door, 
and leaned out of the window to talk to her. 

“Yeah, thanks for everything, Mrs. Weasley,” said 
Harry. 

“Oh it was my pleasure, dears,” said Mrs. Weasley. 
“Td invite you for Christmas, but ... well, I expect 
you’re all going to want to stay at Hogwarts, what 
with ... one thing and another.” 

“Mum!” said Ron irritably. “What d’you three know 
that we don’t?” 

“You’ll find out this evening, I expect,” said Mrs. 
Weasley, smiling. “It’s going to be very exciting — 
mind you, I’m very glad they’ve changed the rules — ” 

“What rules?” said Harry, Ron, Fred, and George 
together. 

“I’m sure Professor Dumbledore will tell you. ... Now, 
behave, won’t you? Won’t you, Fred? And you, 
George?” 

The pistons hissed loudly and the train began to 
move. 

“Tell us what’s happening at Hogwarts!” Fred 
bellowed out of the window as Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and 
Charlie sped away from them. “What rules are they 
changing?” 



Page | 182 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But Mrs. Weasley only smiled and waved. Before the 
train had rounded the corner, she, Bill, and Charlie 
had Disapparated. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione went back to their 
compartment. The thick rain splattering the windows 
made it very difficult to see out of them. Ron undid 
his trunk, pulled out his maroon dress robes, and 
flung them over Pigwidgeon’s cage to muffle his 
hooting. 

“Bagman wanted to tell us what’s happening at 
Hogwarts,” he said grumpily, sitting down next to 
Harry. “At the World Cup, remember? But my own 
mother won’t say. Wonder what — ” 

“Shh!” Hermione whispered suddenly, pressing her 
finger to her lips and pointing toward the 
compartment next to theirs. Harry and Ron listened, 
and heard a familiar drawling voice drifting in 
through the open door. 

"... Father actually considered sending me to 
Durmstrang rather than Hogwarts, you know. He 
knows the headmaster, you see. Well, you know his 
opinion of Dumbledore — the man’s such a 
Mudblood-lover — and Durmstrang doesn’t admit 
that sort of riffraff. But Mother didn’t like the idea of 
me going to school so far away. Father says 
Durmstrang takes a far more sensible line than 
Hogwarts about the Dark Arts. Durmstrang students 
actually learn them, not just the defense rubbish we 
do. ...” 

Hermione got up, tiptoed to the compartment door, 
and slid it shut, blocking out Malfoy’s voice. 



Page | 183 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“So he thinks Durmstrang would have suited him, 
does he?” she said angrily. “I wish he had gone, then 
we wouldn’t have to put up with him.” 

“Durmstrang’s another wizarding school?” said Harry. 

“Yes,” said Hermione sniffily, “and it’s got a horrible 
reputation. According to An Appraisal of Magical 
Education in Europe, it puts a lot of emphasis on the 
Dark Arts.” 

“I think I’ve heard of it,” said Ron vaguely. “Where is 
it? What country?” 

“Well, nobody knows, do they?” said Hermione, 
raising her eyebrows. 

“Er — why not?” said Harry. 

“There’s traditionally been a lot of rivalry between all 
the magic schools. Durmstrang and Beauxbatons like 
to conceal their whereabouts so nobody can steal 
their secrets,” said Hermione matter-of-factly. 

“Come off it,” said Ron, starting to laugh. 
“Durmstrang’s got to be about the same size as 
Hogwarts — how are you going to hide a great big 
castle?” 

“But Hogwarts is hidden,” said Hermione, in surprise. 
“Everyone knows that ... well, everyone who’s read 
Hogwarts, A History, anyway.” 

“Just you, then,” said Ron. “So go on — how d’you 
hide a place like Hogwarts?” 

“It’s bewitched,” said Hermione. “If a Muggle looks at 
it, all they see is a moldering old ruin with a sign over 



Page | 184 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the entrance saying DANGER, DO NOT ENTER, 
UNSAFE.” 

“So Durmstrangll just look like a min to an outsider 
too?” 

“Maybe,” said Hermione, shrugging, “or it might have 
Muggle-repelling charms on it, like the World Cup 
stadium. And to keep foreign wizards from finding it, 
they’ll have made it Unplottable — ” 

“Come again?” 

“Well, you can enchant a building so it’s impossible to 
plot on a map, can’t you?” 

“Er ... if you say so,” said Harry. 

“But I think Durmstrang must be somewhere in the 
far north,” said Hermione thoughtfully. “Somewhere 
very cold, because they’ve got fur capes as part of 
their uniforms.” 

“Ah, think of the possibilities,” said Ron dreamily. “It 
would’ve been so easy to push Malfoy off a glacier and 
make it look like an accident. ... Shame his mother 
likes him. ...” 

The rain became heavier and heavier as the train 
moved farther north. The sky was so dark and the 
windows so steamy that the lanterns were lit by 
midday. The lunch trolley came rattling along the 
corridor, and Harry bought a large stack of Cauldron 
Cakes for them to share. 

Several of their friends looked in on them as the 
afternoon progressed, including Seamus Finnigan, 
Dean Thomas, and Neville Longbottom, a round- 
faced, extremely forgetful boy who had been brought 

Page | 185 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




up by his formidable witch of a grandmother. Seamus 
was still wearing his Ireland rosette. Some of its 
magic seemed to be wearing off now; it was still 
squeaking “ Troy — Mullet — Moran\” but in a very 
feeble and exhausted sort of way. After half an hour 
or so, Hermione, growing tired of the endless 
Quidditch talk, buried herself once more in The 
Standard Book of Spells, Grade 4, and started trying 
to learn a Summoning Charm. 

Neville listened jealously to the others’ conversation 
as they relived the Cup match. 

“Gran didn’t want to go,” he said miserably. “Wouldn’t 
buy tickets. It sounded amazing though.” 

“It was,” said Ron. “Look at this, Neville. ...” 

He rummaged in his trunk up in the luggage rack and 
pulled out the miniature figure of Viktor Krum. 

“Oh wow,” said Neville enviously as Ron tipped Krum 
onto his pudgy hand. 

“We saw him right up close, as well,” said Ron. “We 
were in the Top Box — ” 

“For the first and last time in your life, Weasley.” 

Draco Malfoy had appeared in the doorway. Behind 
him stood Crabbe and Goyle, his enormous, thuggish 
cronies, both of whom appeared to have grown at 
least a foot during the summer. Evidently they had 
overheard the conversation through the compartment 
door, which Dean and Seamus had left ajar. 

“Don’t remember asking you to join us, Malfoy,” said 
Harry coolly. 



Page | 186 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Weasley ... what is that?” said Malfoy, pointing at 
Pigwidgeon’s cage. A sleeve of Ron’s dress robes was 
dangling from it, swaying with the motion of the train, 
the moldy lace cuff very obvious. 

Ron made to stuff the robes out of sight, but Malfoy 
was too quick for him; he seized the sleeve and 
pulled. 

“Look at this!” said Malfoy in ecstasy, holding up 
Ron’s robes and showing Crabbe and Goyle, “Weasley, 
you weren’t thinking of wearing these, were you? I 
mean — they were very fashionable in about eighteen 
ninety. ...” 

“Eat dung, Malfoy!” said Ron, the same color as the 
dress robes as he snatched them back out of Malfoy’s 
grip. Malfoy howled with derisive laughter; Crabbe 
and Goyle guffawed stupidly. 

“So ... going to enter, Weasley? Going to try and bring 
a bit of glory to the family name? There’s money 
involved as well, you know ... you’d be able to afford 
some decent robes if you won. ...” 

“What are you talking about?” snapped Ron. 

“ Are you going to enter?” Malfoy repeated. “I suppose 
you will, Potter? You never miss a chance to show off, 
do you?” 

“Either explain what you’re on about or go away, 
Malfoy,” said Hermione testily, over the top of The 
Standard Book of Spells, Grade 4. 

A gleeful smile spread across Malfoy’s pale face. 

“Don’t tell me you don’t know?” he said delightedly. 
“You’ve got a father and brother at the Ministry and 

Page | 187 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




you don’t even know ? My God, my father told me 
about it ages ago ... heard it from Cornelius Fudge. 
But then, Father’s always associated with the top 
people at the Ministry. . . . Maybe your father’s too 
junior to know about it, Weasley ... yes ... they 
probably don’t talk about important stuff in front of 
him. ...” 

Laughing once more, Malfoy beckoned to Crabbe and 
Goyle, and the three of them disappeared. 

Ron got to his feet and slammed the sliding 
compartment door so hard behind them that the glass 
shattered. 

“Ronl” said Hermione reproachfully, and she pulled 
out her wand, muttered “ ReparoV ’ and the glass 
shards flew back into a single pane and back into the 
door. 

“Well ... making it look like he knows everything and 
we don’t. ...” Ron snarled. “ ‘Father’s always 
associated with the top people at the Ministry.’... Dad 
could’ve got a promotion any time ... he just likes it 
where he is. ...” 

“Of course he does,” said Hermione quietly. “Don’t let 
Malfoy get to you, Ron — ” 

“Him! Get to me!? As if!” said Ron, picking up one of 
the remaining Cauldron Cakes and squashing it into 
a pulp. 

Ron’s bad mood continued for the rest of the journey. 
He didn’t talk much as they changed into their school 
robes, and was still glowering when the Hogwarts 
Express slowed down at last and finally stopped in 
the pitch-darkness of Hogsmeade station. 



Page | 188 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




As the train doors opened, there was a rumble of 
thunder overhead. Hermione bundled up 
Crookshanks in her cloak and Ron left his dress 
robes over Pigwidgeon as they left the train, heads 
bent and eyes narrowed against the downpour. The 
rain was now coming down so thick and fast that it 
was as though buckets of ice-cold water were being 
emptied repeatedly over their heads. 

“Hi, Hagrid!” Harry yelled, seeing a gigantic silhouette 
at the far end of the platform. 

“All righ’, Harry?” Hagrid bellowed back, waving. “See 
yeh at the feast if we don’ drown!” 

First years traditionally reached Hogwarts Castle by 
sailing across the lake with Hagrid. 

“Oooh, I wouldn’t fancy crossing the lake in this 
weather,” said Hermione fervently, shivering as they 
inched slowly along the dark platform with the rest of 
the crowd. A hundred horseless carriages stood 
waiting for them outside the station. Harry, Ron, 
Hermione, and Neville climbed gratefully into one of 
them, the door shut with a snap, and a few moments 
later, with a great lurch, the long procession of 
carriages was rumbling and splashing its way up the 
track toward Hogwarts Castle. 



Page | 189 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE TRIWIZARD TOURNAMENT 

Through the gates, flanked with statues of winged 
boars, and up the sweeping drive the carriages 
trundled, swaying dangerously in what was fast 
becoming a gale. Leaning against the window, Harry 
could see Hogwarts coming nearer, its many lighted 
windows blurred and shimmering behind the thick 
curtain of rain. Lightning flashed across the sky as 
their carriage came to a halt before the great oak front 
doors, which stood at the top of a flight of stone steps. 
People who had occupied the carriages in front were 
already hurrying up the stone steps into the castle. 
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville jumped down from 
their carriage and dashed up the steps too, looking up 
only when they were safely inside the cavernous, 
torch-lit entrance hall, with its magnificent marble 
staircase. 

“Blimey,” said Ron, shaking his head and sending 
water everywhere, “if that keeps up the lake’s going to 
overflow. I’m soak — ARRGH!” 



Page | 190 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



A large, red, water-filled balloon had dropped from 
out of the ceiling onto Ron’s head and exploded. 
Drenched and sputtering, Ron staggered sideways 
into Harry, just as a second water bomb dropped — 
narrowly missing Hermione, it burst at Harry’s feet, 
sending a wave of cold water over his sneakers into 
his socks. People all around them shrieked and 
started pushing one another in their efforts to get out 
of the line of fire. Harry looked up and saw, floating 
twenty feet above them, Peeves the Poltergeist, a little 
man in a bell-covered hat and orange bow tie, his 
wide, malicious face contorted with concentration as 
he took aim again. 

“PEEVES!” yelled an angry voice. “Peeves, come down 
here at ONCE!” 

Professor McGonagall, Deputy Headmistress and 
head of Gryffindor House, had come dashing out of 
the Great Hall; she skidded on the wet floor and 
grabbed Hermione around the neck to stop herself 
from falling. 

“Ouch — sorry, Miss Granger — ” 

“That’s all right, Professor!” Hermione gasped, 
massaging her throat. 

“Peeves, get down here NOW!” barked Professor 
McGonagall, straightening her pointed hat and 
glaring upward through her square-rimmed 
spectacles. 

“Not doing nothing!” cackled Peeves, lobbing a water 
bomb at several fifth-year girls, who screamed and 
dived into the Great Hall. “Already wet, aren’t they? 
Little squirts! Wheeeeeeeeee!” And he aimed another 
bomb at a group of second years who had just 
arrived. 

Page | 191 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I shall call the headmaster!” shouted Professor 
McGonagall. “I’m warning you, Peeves — ” 

Peeves stuck out his tongue, threw the last of his 
water bombs into the air, and zoomed off up the 
marble staircase, cackling insanely. 

“Well, move along, then!” said Professor McGonagall 
sharply to the bedraggled crowd. “Into the Great Hall, 
come on!” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione slipped and slid across the 
entrance hall and through the double doors on the 
right, Ron muttering furiously under his breath as he 
pushed his sopping hair off his face. 

The Great Hall looked its usual splendid self, 
decorated for the start-of-term feast. Golden plates 
and goblets gleamed by the light of hundreds and 
hundreds of candles, floating over the tables in 
midair. The four long House tables were packed with 
chattering students; at the top of the Hall, the staff 
sat along one side of a fifth table, facing their pupils. 

It was much warmer in here. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione walked past the Slytherins, the 
Ravenclaws, and the Hufflepuffs, and sat down with 
the rest of the Gryffindors at the far side of the Hall, 
next to Nearly Headless Nick, the Gryffindor ghost. 
Pearly white and semitransparent, Nick was dressed 
tonight in his usual doublet, but with a particularly 
large ruff, which served the dual purpose of looking 
extra-festive, and insuring that his head didn’t wobble 
too much on his partially severed neck. 

“Good evening,” he said, beaming at them. 

“Says who?” said Harry, taking off his sneakers and 
emptying them of water. “Hope they hurry up with the 
Sorting. I’m starving.” 

Page | 192 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The Sorting of the new students into Houses took 
place at the start of every school year, but by an 
unlucky combination of circumstances, Harry hadn’t 
been present at one since his own. He was quite 
looking forward to it. Just then, a highly excited, 
breathless voice called down the table. 

“Hiya, Harry!” 

It was Colin Creevey, a third year to whom Harry was 
something of a hero. 

“Hi, Colin,” said Harry warily. 

“Harry, guess what? Guess what, Harry? My brother’s 
starting! My brother Dennis!” 

“Er — good,” said Harry. 

“He’s really excited!” said Colin, practically bouncing 
up and down in his seat. “I just hope he’s in 
Gryffindor! Keep your fingers crossed, eh, Harry?” 

“Er — yeah, all right,” said Harry. He turned back to 
Hermione, Ron, and Nearly Headless Nick. “Brothers 
and sisters usually go in the same Houses, don’t 
they?” he said. He was judging by the Weasleys, all 
seven of whom had been put into Gryffindor. 

“Oh no, not necessarily,” said Hermione. “Parvati 
Patil’s twin’s in Ravenclaw, and they’re identical. 
You’d think they’d be together, wouldn’t you?” 

Harry looked up at the staff table. There seemed to be 
rather more empty seats there than usual. Hagrid, of 
course, was still fighting his way across the lake with 
the first years; Professor McGonagall was presumably 
supervising the drying of the entrance hall floor, but 



Page | 193 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




there was another empty chair too, and Harry 
couldn’t think who else was missing. 

“Where’s the new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher?” said Hermione, who was also looking up at 
the teachers. 

They had never yet had a Defense Against the Dark 
Arts teacher who had lasted more than three terms. 
Harry’s favorite by far had been Professor Lupin, who 
had resigned last year. He looked up and down the 
staff table. There was definitely no new face there. 

“Maybe they couldn’t get anyone!” said Hermione, 
looking anxious. 

Harry scanned the table more carefully. Tiny little 
Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was sitting on 
a large pile of cushions beside Professor Sprout, the 
Herbology teacher, whose hat was askew over her 
flyaway gray hair. She was talking to Professor 
Sinistra of the Astronomy department. On Professor 
Sinistra ’s other side was the sallow-faced, hook- 
nosed, greasy-haired Potions master, Snape — 

Harry’s least favorite person at Hogwarts. Harry’s 
loathing of Snape was matched only by Snape ’s 
hatred of him, a hatred which had, if possible, 
intensified last year, when Harry had helped Sirius 
escape right under Snape ’s overlarge nose — Snape 
and Sirius had been enemies since their own school 
days. 

On Snape ’s other side was an empty seat, which 
Harry guessed was Professor McGonagall’s. Next to it, 
and in the very center of the table, sat Professor 
Dumbledore, the headmaster, his sweeping silver hair 
and beard shining in the candlelight, his magnificent 
deep green robes embroidered with many stars and 
moons. The tips of Dumbledore ’s long, thin fingers 
Page | 194 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




were together and he was resting his chin upon them, 
staring up at the ceiling through his half-moon 
spectacles as though lost in thought. Harry glanced 
up at the ceiling too. It was enchanted to look like the 
sky outside, and he had never seen it look this 
stormy. Black and purple clouds were swirling across 
it, and as another thunderclap sounded outside, a 
fork of lightning flashed across it. 

“Oh hurry up,” Ron moaned, beside Harry, “I could 
eat a hippogriff.” 

The words were no sooner out of his mouth than the 
doors of the Great Hall opened and silence fell. 
Professor McGonagall was leading a long line of first 
years up to the top of the Hall. If Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione were wet, it was nothing to how these first 
years looked. They appeared to have swum across the 
lake rather than sailed. All of them were shivering 
with a combination of cold and nerves as they filed 
along the staff table and came to a halt in a line 
facing the rest of the school — all of them except the 
smallest of the lot, a boy with mousy hair, who was 
wrapped in what Harry recognized as Hagrid’s 
moleskin overcoat. The coat was so big for him that it 
looked as though he were draped in a furry black 
circus tent. His small face protruded from over the 
collar, looking almost painfully excited. When he had 
lined up with his terrified-looking peers, he caught 
Colin Creevey’s eye, gave a double thumbs-up, and 
mouthed, I fell in the lake\ He looked positively 
delighted about it. 

Professor McGonagall now placed a three-legged stool 
on the ground before the first years and, on top of it, 
an extremely old, dirty, patched wizard’s hat. The first 
years stared at it. So did everyone else. For a 
moment, there was silence. Then a long tear near the 



Page | 195 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




brim opened wide like a mouth, and the hat broke 
into song: 

A thousand years or more ago, 

When I was newly sewn, 

There lived four wizards of renown, 

Whose names are still well known: 

Bold Gryffindor, from wild moor, 

Fair Ravenclaw, from glen, 

Sweet Hufflepuff, from valley broad, 

Shrewd Slytherin, from fen. 

They shared a wish, a hope, a dream, 

They hatched a daring plan 
To educate young sorcerers 
Thus Hogwarts School began. 

Now each of these four founders 
Formed their own house, for each 
Did value different virtues 
In the ones they had to teach. 

By Gryffindor, the bravest were 
Prized far beyond the rest; 

For Ravenclaw, the cleverest 
Would always be the best; 

For Hufflepuff, hard workers were 
Most worthy of admission; 

And power-hungry Slytherin 
Loved those of great ambition. 

While still alive they did divide 
Their favorites from the throng, 

Yet how to pick the worthy ones 
When they were dead and gone? 

Twas Gryffindor who found the way, 

He whipped me off his head 

The founders put some brains in me 

So I could choose instead! 

Now slip me snug about your ears, 

I’ve never yet been wrong, 

111 have a look inside your mind 
And tell where you belong! 

Page | 196 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



