The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Star-Master, by Ray Cummings

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: The Star-Master

Author: Ray Cummings

Release Date: May 20, 2020 [EBook #62170]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR-MASTER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            THE STAR-MASTER

                            By RAY CUMMINGS

                    Docile, decadent Venus was easy
                pickings for that twenty-first century
                   Hitler's dream of cosmic empire.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


My name is Arthur Frane. You who read this story now, of course
are familiar with momentous events into which I was unexpectedly
plunged--momentous for all mankind.

I write this narrative now to add the true details to what you have
all read and heard blared by the newscasters around the world. I have
been extolled as a hero although I did nothing except try to keep from
getting killed.

I was twenty-six years old last summer, in June of 2003, when fate
so strangely brought Venta and me together. My family is wealthy, as
you have heard. Do not envy me for that. An income of ten thousand
decimars, however nice it may seem in theory, is in reality no
advantage to a young man of twenty-six. I am a big blond fellow whom
the newscasters have been pleased to call Viking-like and handsome as a
god. I'm much obliged. But whatever truth there is in it, that too has
been a disadvantage.

The weird events began in July, last summer, when with Jim Gregg I
went hunting in that Adirondac forest. Jim and I were in Government
College together. I left to spend my income and become a dawdler--the
disadvantage of money; and Jim joined the Crime Prevention Bureau of
the New York Shadow Squad. We got a one-day hunting permit. Jim took
his official crime-tracker equipment, with an extra flash-gun for me;
we flew to the Adirondac mountain slope which our permit named and
hopefully set out on foot to try our luck.

But we had no luck. A few birds, which even the minimum pencil-ray
flash had all but burned to a crisp, were all we had bagged. Evening
came, with twilight settling so that the forest glades were deepening
into purple. And then suddenly it seemed that we heard a rustling in
the underbrush--a rustling which ought to be a deer.

We crouched in a thicket, waiting. The sound stopped. "Let's try the
listener," I whispered.

Jim got out his little eavesdropping gadget. But he had no time to
connect it. The rustling began again. It was obviously up a short slope
no more than a hundred feet from us--some wild animal which seemed now
to be retreating.

"I'll take a chance," I muttered. "If that's a deer, we'll lose it if I
can't drill it now."

We knew it could not be a human, since our permit for today barred
anyone else from the twenty square miles of Government preserve
allotted to us. I fired at the sound, with my violet pencil-flash
eating through the underbrush at the top of the slope.

There was a startled, weird outcry; and from the summit of the little
rise a shape broke cover. A girl! She came bursting from a thicket no
more than three feet to the side of the swath my flash had burned, and
for a second or two she stood poised on a rock with the open evening
sky a background above and behind her. A slim shape of bare legs and
arms with a brief drape from shoulders to her thighs. The starlight and
fading daylight gleamed on her bronzed skin as though she were a metal
statue.

"Well--I say--" Jim muttered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thoughts are instant things. There was in my mind the vague idea that
here, by some wild circumstances, was a girl in a fancy-dress party
costume or something of the kind. But the thought, and Jim's muttered
words of astonishment, were in another second stricken away. She paused
for that instant on the rock, and then she leaped. Amazing, incredible
leap! It carried her in a flat arc some ten or fifteen feet above the
ground and twenty feet away, where light as a faun she landed on the
toes of her bare feet. Nearer to us now; and seeing us, perhaps for the
first time, she stood and stared.

I could see the silvery streaks running through the black hair that
framed her face. It was a queerly beautiful face, apparently devoid of
normal cosmetic-make-up. Negroid? Oriental? In that second I had the
thought that it was neither--nor anything else that I could name. A
girl with a mysterious wild beauty which stirred my pulses.

"Well--good Lord--" Jim muttered again. He too was staring, with a
hand in his shock of bristling red hair, and I can imagine the look of
numbed astonishment on his freckled, pug-nosed face. "Good Lord, how
did she jump like that?"

I heard myself stammering, "You--up there--what in the devil--"

Like a terrified fugitive the girl abruptly swept a look behind her;
and then she leaped again, and landed almost beside us.

"You--you--Oh you mus' help me! There was a flash that tried to kill
me--"

English! With weird, indescribable intonation, she gasped the English
words.

"I--shot at you," I stammered. "Sorry--we thought you were an animal.
No human is allowed here today but us."

Somehow it seemed futile, incongruous that I should try to explain
anything rational to a girl so weird as this.

But she smiled. "Oh--I thought--I thought--"

"Someone is after you?" Jim said quickly.

"Yes. I thought--but I guess not now. Oh you are good Earthmen--not
like Curtmann. I escaped, and I have come long long a way from my poor
terrified people."

I saw Jim glance at me significantly. We both had the same thought, of
course. A girl demented; with painted skin and fancy dress--trappings
of insanity; and she had escaped from some asylum?

But those leaps were far beyond the power of any trained athlete!

"What's your name?" I murmured.

"Venta. I was a prisoner--and now I have to tell someone of importance
here on Earth. I did escape when I was brought here by Curtmann." She
babbled it out, breathless, terrified. "I did not know what to do, he
is so bad to my people--to the Midge--to all of us. And I--I do not
love him. I am afraid of him. In Shan he rules--and my family now are
all in the great Forest City. And Curtmann will capture that too."

Blankly Jim and I exchanged glances. And suddenly with a muttered oath,
Jim gasped,

"My God, Art! Look at that--thing! There--behind you!"

I whirled. But whatever he had seen, or thought he saw, was gone.

"Behind me? What?"

"Why--why--" Jim could only gasp. The girl was staring at us blankly.
Jim was stupified into incoherency. "Why--why--a little thing--it
ran--" And then he raised his left wrist with another muttered gasp.

"What in the devil?" I demanded. "Are you crazy too?"

"Electro-eavesdropper on us! Look--" An eavesdropper detector was on
his wrist, connected with his watch. Part of his S.S. equipment and he
always wore it. The underplate was glowing now, its warmth against his
flesh attracting his attention.

An eavesdropper being used against us! I knew it was illegal for anyone
but a Federal Man to have one; but criminals had them, and most of the
other S.S. devices and weapons, of course. Some criminal was near here,
listening to us now!

"Someone not far away!" Jim gasped. "Look at that dial!"

His little detector-needle was swaying violently, in the range of one
to two hundred feet. Then it swung back to normal as the ray evidently
was shut off.

I snatched out my flash-gun. Jim and I crouched with the numbed,
terrified girl between us.

"Oh--" she muttered. "They have come, and they will kill us."

"There it is again!" Jim's hand gripped my arm. "My God--that little
thing!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The purple shadows of night were deepening in the forest now. But in
the gloom I saw it. On the bole of a tree no more than six or eight
feet from us a tiny figure stood peering at us. The glistening,
brown-bronze figure of a man; a broad-shouldered, stocky little
figure no more than a foot high! I had an instant glimpse of a
powerfully-muscled body, a tiny hairless round head, then the creature
leaped to the ground, recovered its balance and ran. In another second
it was lost in the gloom.

The girl too, had seen it. "A Midge! Here? Why--then Curtmann's men are
here, too!"

She stopped abruptly. From the leafy darkness something hurtled into a
tree beside us. There was the faint tinkling of fragile glass, then a
sickening sweet smell assailed us, and sticky liquid splattered on us.

"Anesthesia-bomb!" Jim gasped. "Get away from here--grab the girl!"

My head was reeling, with senses fading so that the dim scene was
blurring around me. Jim and I dragged the girl through the thickets.
Then came a shot at us, the sizzling flash just missing us, shriveling
the foliage over our heads. Jim's shot answered it. I saw a skulking
figure by a nearby tree, and fired quickly. My shot caught him full; he
went down.

In front of me, Jim had dropped prone into the brush. His voice warned:
"They're here. Get down."

We had no chance to fight them off. I drilled a shape that appeared in
front of me; but another pounced on my shoulders as I crouched. Blurred
by the drug, I squirmed, reached up and grabbed him by the throat. But
another man was on us. Jim's shot sounded again; and then as I fought,
I saw several dark shapes leaping on him. His panting oaths mingled
with the girl's scream.

In the melee glass hit my face, breaking with the sticky drug oozing
out on me. A man's fist followed it, with a crack that made my head
burst into roaring light before I drifted off into an abyss of
nothingness....


                                  II

I came to with the sound of distant throbbing in my ears. It seemed
that I was lying on a metal grid-floor; and as I stirred, a familiar
voice sounded.

"Thank the Lord, you're coming out of it at last."

It was Jim, here on the floor with me, bending anxiously over me in a
luminous darkness. His pug-nosed face grinned down at me.

"I sure thought you might never come back, Art. You been a day,
sleeping off that damned drug."

Dizzily I tried to sit up as he held me. "What--what happened? Where
the devil are we?" Then I remembered the fight. "Venta--" I murmured.

"She's all right. I've seen her, and talked with her."

I could see that Jim and I were alone in a small, triangular metal
apartment. A closed door was to one side. And to the other, there was
a round bull's-eye window. It was black out there, with bright white
points of stars. The thrumming was a faint distant electronic throb,
off in this strange interior.

I could feel my strength rapidly coming back. I sat up, shoving Jim
away. "I'm all right now. Where are we?"

He grinned wryly. "Hold your breath for a shock. We're out in Space,
plenty far. I guess, by now, we're on our way to Venus!"

Out in Space! How often, like everyone else in our modern world of
science, I had envisaged it, and wondered why it had never been made
possible.

"On the way to Venus?"

"So they tell me, an' Lord knows I wouldn't doubt it. If you don't
believe me, come take a look."

With his arm around me, I staggered dizzily to the bull's-eye porte. It
was an amazing scene! The Heavens everywhere were a black vault, strewn
with myriad white gems of the blazing worlds. Filling one whole side,
the familiar Earth hung motionless. It was mottled with clouds, beneath
which the configurations of the oceans and continents were plainly
visible.

I stared, awed, wordless; and then, still weak and dizzy with the cold
sweat of the drug chilling me, I was glad enough to sit down on the
couch, with Jim beside me.

"Who's got us?" I asked presently.

"A fellow named Curtmann and his band. A dozen or more of them here
on board. I've talked with one of them--they're all Earthmen--this
ship was built on Earth. Would you believe it? A damned scientist from
mid-Europe built it secretly. He never told the world about it, but
gathered a bunch of crooks and beat it off."

"Not so fast," I murmured. "Don't get incoherent."

       *       *       *       *       *

I tried to sort it out as he breathlessly told me what he had
learned. Some eight or ten years ago, among the captive people of
mid-Europe under police domination of the Anglo-American Federation,
a fellow named Karl Curtmann had built this hundred foot cylindrical
space-flyer. The same old urge for world conquest. But this fellow
Curtmann had known that on Earth he had no chance. This was not
1915, nor 1939. And so he had gathered others like himself; all
English-speaking, since their racial language had been banned by the
Federation before they were born, and with his ship and his men, they
had adventured into Space.

"Seems they landed on Venus," Jim was saying. "It was a fertile field
for a world-conqueror, by what I hear! Peaceful, simple people, with
these Earth cutthroats jumping on them. They used a bunch of our
Shadow Squad weapons, which was enough and plenty."

Once established there as a conqueror, Curtmann had gone back to Earth
on several trips, for supplies and more weapons and men.

"I guess there are several hundred of 'em on Venus now," Jim went
on. "Built themselves a little city, and made slaves out of the
Venus-people. You can imagine what this style Earthman would do when
he's a conqueror with nothing to challenge him! And the Venus-people
are on the down-grade. Dying out, except for the Midges."

"Midges?"

"They're the little people of Venus. They serve. They believe that all
Earth men are gods, or something." Jim shrugged. "Don't ask me. We'll
find out soon enough."

The Midge! I remembered that little bronze man-figure which had peered
at us.

"And Venta?" I prompted.

"Her father--No, I guess it's her grandfather--he's a leader on Venus.
Religious leader, or something. He and some others have escaped to a
Forest City. Curtmann had Venta. Venta says he's just trying to make
her love him--make her see how wonderful he is. Curtmann, the Man of
Destiny--I can't wait to meet him!"

He had taken Venta on one of his forays to Earth, and she had escaped
from him. "An' they got us along with her," Jim finished wryly. "Damned
lucky we didn't get killed. We will yet, most probably."

A little rasp here in the darkness made us turn. A doorslide had
opened; a man's heavy-featured face scowled in at us.

"At last you have recovered," he said to me. His voice was the heavy,
guttural timber of a mid-European. He was a villainous-looking fellow,
his slack-jowled face bluish with a week's growth of beard.

"Yes," I said. "Fortunately for me. Are you Curtmann?"

"He's Frantz," Jim put in. "He's been feeding me."

"Tell your master I want to see him," I said. "And take me to the girl,
Venta."

The fellow leered. "You talk like you own the ship," he commented.

The doorslide closed. His footsteps retreated, but presently they came
back. He opened the door. "The Great-Master says, bring you," he said
with an ironic grin. "Come on. You can both come."

       *       *       *       *       *

Silently we followed him down a narrow metal corridor.

"This way--" I saw our captor now as a bulky six-foot fellow clad
incongruously in a crudely plaited robe of dried vegetable fibre,
draped upon him like a Roman toga. He stood aside at an oval doorway;
and Jim and I went into a small triangular room. Starlight filtered
into it from a side bull's-eye.

Clad still in her brief garment, Venta sat on a square pad on the
floor. As we entered she flung me a look, and then stared straight
ahead.

"So? This is the fellow who thought he would steal my little Venta?
Come in, Frane. Stand over there; I want to look you over."

Karl Curtmann. He was seated in a small, straight-backed armchair. He
was a smallish, slim fellow, not over forty perhaps. A vivid blue toga
encased him; sandals were on his feet. At our entrance he raised one of
his bare ornamented arms with a gesture.

The costume was queerly incongruous to a modern Earthman; but upon
Curtmann there was an immense dignity, a sense of the consciousness
of his own greatness. More than mere conceit, it seemed to radiate
from him. On his heavy, square-jawed face there was a look of amused
contempt as he regarded me.

"My little Venta has asked me not to kill you," he added. His voice was
soft and suave. English was his native language, taught him exclusively
by Government decree. But the inherited timbre was guttural. "That is
fortunate, is it not?"

"Yes," I agreed. "Very. I thank her."

His eyes twinkled; his immaculate hands with jeweled fingers, brushed
his crisp blond hair. "You can also thank me. I am permitting you to
join our life. You know now, of course, that I am Master of Venus? It
is their good fortune. Always I shall protect them from any harm, and
teach them the life that is good for them."

He was utterly sincere. His eyes were gleaming with his fervour. Man of
Destiny. He believed it with the faith of a child. And now his gaze
went to Venta.

"Her people--" He was still talking to me, though he stared at her.
"Some of them still are misguided. Old Prytan, her grandfather, is a
very wicked old man, Frane. He has fled to the Forest City. He defies
my rule. I shall have to punish that Forest City."

Suddenly his face contorted; his arm shook as he pounded his fist on
his chair. "I shall not tolerate it. They are all to die. Nor in the
city of Shan itself will I have rebellion. I am a man of peace--there
shall be no strife. And each year, from Earth, more of my men will come
to mate with the Venus women. The new race. The new Empire of Curtmann.
Is it not a wonderful future, Venta? I shall make you Empress."

"Yes," she murmured.

"Race of the Gods," he said. "And I--Karl Curtmann--"

He checked himself. There was a little sound of beating wings here in
the dim starlit room. I turned as through the door a tiny shape came
like a fluttering bird through the air. A footlong bronze man-shape.
One of the Midge! Again my mind leaped back to that little figure in
the Adirondac forest. It had had wings, though then I had not noticed
them.

This one came and poised on the arm of Curtmann's chair. "What is it,
Rahn?" he said.

The Midge's voice was tiny, but clear. "The flight-master has asked
that you come now to check his calculations of our course." The English
words, taught to this Midge, were quaintly intoned. The voice was
gentle, humble.

Curtmann stood up. "All right. I shall go." He waved an arm at the
burly Frantz who was standing silently to one side. "Our captives can
remain here, Frantz."

He turned, smiled gently at Venta, and strode from the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the days passed we were allowed a fair freedom of movement. A
freedom to plan--what? I must confess that Jim and I had no conception
of what we might do in circumstances like these.

Once Venta had whispered to me, "We shall escape from here--it can be
done."

Escape from this Curtmann, join Venta's grandfather--old Prytan--out
there in the Venus Forest City.... Certainly it was all that Jim and I
could hope for. And then came that night when the misty lead-grey ball
of Venus had grown to a monstrous disc beneath us, with the cone of its
shadow blotting out the Sun as we dropped down into the heavy Venus
atmosphere. There came a moment when Venta, Jim and I were alone, and
from the dim corridor with a little beat of wings, Rhan, the Midge,
came to join us. He was carrying an oxohydro heat-torch. Amazing little
man-shape. The alumite torch was as big as himself, and heavier. His
diaphanous, dragonfly wings struggled with it. Like a giant flying ant,
with an ant's monstrous strength in proportion to its size. Panting, he
fluttered heavily and laid it at my feet.

"You, the Great God," he said. "I serve you. Here it is."

He stood now by the torch he had brought. The muscles on his broad
chest heaved under the sleek bronzed skin with his panting breath.

"For you," he added. "No one saw me. I got it for you. I did well,
Seyla Venta?"

"Oh yes. Thank you, Rhan." Venta was trembling now with excitement.
"When we get lower into the atmosphere, we'll go to one of the
pressure-portes at the bottom of the hull. There are space suits there,
if we can get to them."

"Let's close this door," Jim said quickly. "Not so loud, Venta."

We planned it, as the ship settled down through the heavy,
sullen-looking Venus clouds and then burst out into the lower
atmosphere with the dark surface of Venus far down beneath us. Rhan
watched and reported that Curtmann and most of his men were forward by
the control turret. Then Jim, Venta and I were able to get down through
one of the dim corridors, down a little catwalk ladder into the lower
hull. The metal pressure porte door was locked.

I stood at the bottom of the ladder. Above me the voices of Curtmann's
ruffians were audible. Every moment I expected that we would be missed.

"Hurry it," I murmured.

The porte doorlock melted as Jim held the torch upon it. We slid into
the porte, closed the door after us. Venta, on the voyage to Earth, had
been trained by Curtmann in the use of these pressure-suits, and in a
moment we stood in them, helmeted, with the air bloating the suits so
that we were shapeless monsters.

I opened the outer doorslide. A little at first, and then wider. In
the rarified atmosphere of Venus at this fifty mile height, the air of
the little porte went out with a rush. It blew us out with it. I had a
sickening sensation of falling into nothingness. Then it seemed that my
head steadied. I fumbled with a hand upon the anti-gravity mechanisms
by which the fall could be guided.

Above me the dark finned shape of Curtmann's space ship was drawing
swiftly upward and away. Head down, with the bloated shapes of Jim
and Venta beside me, we plummeted like falling meteorites through the
sub-stratosphere darkness.


                                  III

"A rainbow storm is coming," old Prytan said. "We shall have to wait
until it is passed before trying to get to the broken city."

We were in the depths of an orange-blue forest of giant, spindly
vegetation that rose in fantastic shapes from the soft, porous ground
five hundred feet or more into the air. Pods and vines hung upon the
lacery of trees. There were huge vivid flowers, redolent with a perfume
exotic, cloying in the heavy humid air.

Everything, particularly at first, to me was heavy, oppressive. Venus
is denser than the Earth, and the gravity is a full third heavier. It
made walking, to us Earthmen, a panting labor. I felt that I weighed,
not my normal hundred and eighty pounds, but almost two hundred and
fifty. For us to run seemed impossible.

I had seen but little of this Forest City. It was a group of perhaps a
thousand dwellings, all seemingly built of slabs of the porous forest
trees, with walls and roofs of thatch. The houses nestled between the
great fantastic trees. Some were like birds' nests in the branches,
with vine-ladders from the ground leading up to them. The colors of the
thatch were vivid blue, red and yellow.

It was a fairyland of woodland fantasy, peopled by the humans of this
scattered, futile Venus-race. I had seen gaping groups of them as
Venta and I pushed through them, heading for old Prytan's dwelling.
Men, women and children crowded the flower-lined, crooked little city
streets. They were all gaudily-dressed in toga-like fabrics made from
the vivid-colored, dried vegetable fibres. A few of them had fled
here from Shan where they had picked up a little English from the
Earth-conquerors. But most of them babbled at me in their own weird
tongue. They were a gentle people. The lack of struggle, lack of
accomplishment for generations now, had stamped them with a futility.
Here in the benign climate of Venus they had grown content with simple
wants. Love-making, music--that was enough for them. The Midge attended
their every want.

Decadence perhaps, but who shall say but what it is to be preferred
to the bloody upward struggles of our own Earth's history? All that
too, had been upon Venus. Far ahead of Earth in the life-cycle of its
humans, there had been great scientific civilizations here. The science
of war had risen into all its ghastly power and then had destroyed
itself, with mankind at last coming to realize its tragic futility.
There were ruins of great cities here, with the silt of centuries upon
them and the forests growing lush amid their wreckage.

"You two Earthmen are not quite like Curtmann and his fellows," old
Prytan said to me. His eyes twinkled beneath his shaggy white brows.
His seamed old face wrinkled with a smile.

"No," I said. "We hope not."

"But your Earth still struggles, with each man wanting more than his
neighbor."

We were in a room of a huge, crudely-built dwelling of thatch. A
thousand Midges had woven it in a day. Venta was here; and draped
on the floor at her feet was the graceful, gaudily-clad figure of a
young Venusman. His name was Jahnt. He was her cousin, I understood.
A handsome fellow with longish, bushy dark hair; an oval face with
pointed chin, hawk nose and eyes with an almost Oriental slant. He
spoke English as fluently as Venta. I don't know why I took an instant
dislike to him, save that he always seemed to want to be beside Venta.

A rainbow storm was coming. I could see the premonitory signs of it.
The room here was lighted with little braziers--seemingly the caged
bodies of tiny insects which were luminous as fireflies. Through the
oval window-openings the night outside was turgidly dark. But wind
now was pattering the trees, and there were distant flares of weird
opalescent lightning.

A tenseness was here in this room of old Prytan's home--and it was
everywhere about the little city. Like an aura of terror it seemed to
envelope us. All this day that had passed, Midges by hundreds had been
flying in from Shan. And now, this evening, the big people themselves
had begun coming. Fugitives. Terrified people who had escaped from
Shan; rebellious, wanting to do something to rid Venus of these cruel
conquerors, coming to Prytan as their leader; helplessly throwing
themselves upon him, asking him what they should do. Groups of people
milled in the streets, eyed the coming storm. Rebellion against the
Earth-conquerors. But it was more than that. Among us all, here in this
eerie opalescent room there was the feeling of impending disaster.
Curtmann had returned to Shan. In a rage at the loss of Venta, he had
learned that the rebellion against him was growing. Would he wait for
old Prytan to organize some attack? Certainly I doubted it. And my mind
swept back so that again I seemed to hear his grim words: "I shall have
to punish that Forest City!"

Was Curtmann planning to strike at us now?

"... but until the storm is over we can do nothing," old Prytan was
saying.

Even then, what could we do? In somber voices that seemed to echo
dully through the rustic room and mingled with the weird storm-noises
outside, we discussed it. One of the great broken cities of by-gone
days was only some ten miles away. In it there was hidden away a cache
of ancient weapons of science.

"I have kept them workable," Prytan said grimly. "And my father before
me also attended them. And before him, his father. But never did we
really think the horrible time would come when they should be used."

       *       *       *       *       *

But whatever we could do, certainly must be done soon. The news from
Shan every moment was more serious. Upon Curtmann's return, open
disorder had broken out in the capital city. As punishment, a thousand
or more of the young Venusmen of the city had been summarily killed by
the diabolic flash-guns of the Earthmen. "Only our men he kills," young
Jahnt put in ironically. "Why not? Our women are very beautiful. Like
you, is it not so, Venta?"

I tensed at the glance with which he swept her. "I shall bring in the
supper," Venta said. His gaze followed her as she rose and left us.

"I tell you all this about our hidden weapons," Prytan was saying to
me in his cracked treble voice. "We can trust you, even though you are
Earthmen?"

"Yes," I agreed.

"Listen," Jim put in. "These young men you've got here--well, no
offense meant--on Earth we'd call them ladylike." His gaze barely
touched the gaudy figure of Jahnt and then went back to Prytan. "My
business, sir, on Earth is to deal with criminals. I'm pretty good in
a fight. You just give me some of your weapons."

"I trust you," Prytan agreed. "Never, until tonight, has anyone but
myself known about the weapons. If Curtmann knew it--"

"He won't," I said. "We'll get them tonight. We--"

I checked myself. The beat of wings sounded, and a Midge came through
the window, and landed on Prytan's shoulder.

"Well, Meeta," he said, "you come with more bad news?"

A female Midge. It was the first one I had seen except at a distance.
She was a fairylike little creature--a ten-inch high miniature
of Venta. Her flesh was like pink-white satin, glistening in the
insect-light. Her wings thrummed to balance her as she poised.

"English?" she said in her tiny voice.

"Yes," Prytan nodded. "These are good Earthmen."

Her pixie-like, tiny face turned toward me. I saw then, in those tiny
glowing eyes, the leap of her instinctive adoration for my giant size.
Here a new God for her to worship and serve.

"English, yes," she agreed. "Master, there have been still more
killings. They kill our men now for no reason; and those of the women
who are young and beautiful they have herded together into a harem."

Prytan's old body trembled with anger. "We must stop it. And Meeta,
have you told the Midge to meet us in the broken city?"

"Master, yes. They will be there when the storm is passed. We cannot
fly in the wind, and even now it is very strong."

I could hear it, crackling through the giant foliage outside. Then
there was a monstrous flare of color as though a rainbow had burst
around us.

"It gets bad," young Jahnt muttered. He went to one of the windows;
then sauntered to a door-oval and disappeared.

Meeta, I understood now, was one of the leaders of the Midge. It was
her brother who had aided us to escape from Curtmann's ship. I told her
about it now as she perched on my hand, with her soft eyes roaming my
face and her tiny lips parted with eager breath as she listened.

"Oh I am glad of that. Rahn so wants to do what is right in serving
our Gods. But it is confusing, Gods here on Venus who fight with one
another--"

Through the window, upon a blast of storm-wind another little figure
came fluttering. Another female Midge, like Meeta. With beating wings
she hovered a second and then fell to the floor at our feet.

"Mela!" old Prytan gasped. "What is it?"

The storm had tossed her against a tree. One of her wings was broken;
blood was on her body. But she had struggled on to us, bringing her
news.

"What is it?" old Prytan demanded.

"Curtmann comes! He and all his men--his army, coming now to attack the
Forest City!"

Curtmann coming to attack us! A dozen little male Midges here on the
floor of the room heard it and scurried away.

"Curtmann coming?" Prytan gasped. "Why--why we will not be ready for
him."

It stunned us. Within a minute, out in the city, the news was spreading
with cries of the frightened people. A panic was beginning here. That
would have to be controlled.

"They've left Shan already?" I demanded of the little Midge.

"No. Perhaps not. But they are ready--the storm may hold them off."

       *       *       *       *       *

I was on my feet. Old Prytan was trembling with the palsy of his
confused terror. By what Jim and I had seen of the young men of the
Forest City, there was not one who could be counted on to do anything
constructive in this crisis. If the Venus-people were to have any
leadership, it would have to be Jim and me.

"Send word that the women and children are to stay in their homes,"
I said. "There must be no panic. Have the young men come here. Storm
or no storm we shall have to get to the broken city, and get those
Venus-weapons."

"How far is it from here to Shan?" Jim put in.

"Twenty Earth-miles perhaps," old Prytan stammered. "If Curtmann and
his men should start now--"

"Maybe they won't," I said. "The storm is still going strong."

"Where is Venta?" Prytan stared helplessly about the room. "She said
she would bring us food. What use of that? We have no time to eat it
now." He suddenly raised his shaking old voice. "Venta. Venta, where
are you?"

There was no answer from the nearby interior door-oval through which
Venta had gone. Just blank, stark silence. Horror struck at me.

Jim and I were on our feet. Jim gasped, "I'll go see." But before he
could move, we heard a woman's moan, followed again by silence!

Jim broke it with an oath. I tossed little Meeta into the air with a
flip of my hand as I ran toward the crude kitchen, out there beyond the
dim door-oval.

Thank God, it was not Venta. On the packed loam of the floor an old
serving woman lay sprawled. Her throat was a ghastly welter of crimson,
and near her a Midge lay dead.

The old woman was still alive. She tried faintly to gasp in English as
I bent over her.

"He--took her--Venta--"

"Who took her?"

"Jahnt--he--"

The blood choked her. But I had no interest in hearing more. Jahnt!

"Why--he's got the secret of those weapons now!" Jim gasped. "Get the
idea, Art?"

The commotion had brought others. They all stood milling, helpless,
frightened. Jim and I shoved them away.

"He'd probably head for the broken city," Jim said. "It's much closer
to here."

"That he might do," Prytan agreed. "And where is his Midge--you
people--you have seen little Ort lately?"

"Jahnt could send that Midge flying to Shanga to tell Curtmann about
the weapons," I suggested.

Old Prytan could only stammer assent to the possibility. And if
Curtmann and his ruffians got to that cache before we could get there,
that indeed would be the end of any possibility of overcoming him.

"Where is Meeta?" I demanded. "Meeta knows the location of the broken
city."

She fluttered from behind me at the sound of my voice. "Master I am
here. What I can do to serve?"

"We're going after Jahnt," Jim said. "He can't have gotten far."

"But you run so heavily," old Prytan murmured. "My young men here--"

They were all standing looking frightened and confused. Jim swept them
with a glance and drew me past them. It occurred to me that we might
use the three spacesuits in which we had escaped from Curtmann. With
their anti-gravity mechanisms and tiny rocket-streams we could propel
ourselves over the forest. But we found now that they were gone.

Precious minutes were passing. We would have to go on foot. At the door
we paused, appalled by the wind and a chromatic burst of glaring light.
Meeta fluttered in the air beside my head, and as the wind hit her she
was tossed back.

"You can't fly out into that, Meeta?"

"No, I am afraid it's not possible now. But you can carry me."

She fluttered to my shoulder, crouching with a tiny hand gripping my
coat collar. With Jim beside me we plunged out into the roaring riot of
the rainbow storm.


                                  IV

"Guess we'll have to wait a bit longer," Jim murmured. "But it seems to
be easing, don't you think?"

In a sheltered recess of the forest we were crouching, forced to wait
for the weird storm to pass. There had been no possible chance of
finding the fleeing Jahnt. We could only hope now that he would go on
to the broken city. The storm seemed to be lessening but still it was
a roar of wind which cracked through the spindly giant trees, often
bringing down great segments of branches which it had torn loose.

A lull came at last, and through a ragged, littered forest Jim and I
pushed our tortuous way. Meeta could fly now. She guided us, and with
little forays hummed ahead and to the sides, seeking some signs of
Jahnt and Venta. But there were none.

The storm had been a torture of delay. In my heart now I had no thought
that we would be able to locate Jahnt and Venta. I could only hope that
they might be in the broken city. Had Curtmann received news of the
Venus weapons? My mind was upon Venta, but still I could envisage that
bloodthirsty band of Earth cutthroats advancing upon the Forest City.

"I say, is it much further?" Jim demanded suddenly of Meeta. "This is
tough going for us."

"Master, no. It is ahead, just down that slope."

The dim forest glade was descending into a great shallow area of
deeper shadow. And presently we could see the ruins of tumbled, broken
buildings lying here, half buried by the rank forest growth. In the
turgid dimness, with a faint orange luminosity that seemed inherent
to the great trees, it was an eerie place of colored shadows. Great
buildings were everywhere around us now, weird of shape and substance,
some of them still partly erect with the spindly trees growing through
them.

It was a place of the ghosts of Venus' past.

"It is down in here," Meeta said, pointing.

A littered rocky depression was before us. A ruined amphitheatre, with
its walls almost gone and the forest like a monstrous clump in its
middle. We descended into it. The ground in places was rocky. Some
natural cataclysm must have torn this ground since the original arena
was built.

Then we saw the cache of weapons. It was half a demolished room in some
broken structure that now was unrecognizable; an apartment partly open
at the top, of some two hundred feet diameter. A little light filtered
down from the lurid greenish-yellow storm-clouds high overhead.

"No one here ahead of us, Jim?" In the darkness, with Meeta perched
again upon my shoulder, we stood peering and listening. There was only
silence.

"Where are the weapons?" Jim demanded.

Meeta led us. "There in that little recess, Master. Many old broken
boxes are filled with them."

We stood before the rock-shelves, numbed with disappointment and
horror. The crumbling old metal boxes were here. But they were strewn
about; broken open; empty! The weapons were gone!

       *       *       *       *       *

"Gone!" Jim gasped. "That damned Jahnt!"

Abruptly Meeta cried, "Look! He is over there!"

With his hiding place discovered, Jahnt leaped suddenly erect from the
shadows of a rocky niche. A knife was in his hand. I was nearest to
him. I leaped. But I had miscalculated my abnormal heaviness. I hit
the rocks a few feet short of him, stumbled, almost went down. As my
arms flailed I saw him over me, his pointed face demoniac with lustful
triumph, his knife stabbing at my chest.

There was a whirring of wings, and a glistening body went past my head.
Meeta. The ten inches of her elfin form flapped and struck Jahnt in
the face. He hit wildly at her with his left hand, went off balance,
with his knife-thrust going wild; and collided against me so that I
was able to fling my arms around him. Then my left hand caught his
wrist, twisted and the knife fell away. We went down, locked together,
rolling. And suddenly I felt the knife hit my hand. Meeta with swift
agility had retrieved it and brought it to me. The lithe Jahnt, far
stronger than he looked, was momentarily on top of me. I seized the
knife, stabbed upward into his chest; and with a choked cry he went
limp, fell forward on me.

I scrambled to my feet. Jahnt wasn't quite dead, but obviously dying.
Jim and I bent over him.

"You got away with the weapons?" Jim muttered. "Or are they still
around here?"

"Curtmann has them. My little Midge flew to him, and came back with
some of Curtmann's men. They left just a little while ago. I--showed
them how to use the weapons. You will--be defeated by Curtmann. You
damned--"

Again little Meeta suddenly called us. "Here! Here is Venta!"

She was lying, bound and gagged, but unharmed in the recess of some
crags nearby. Jim and I rushed to her.

The three spacesuits were with her. Jim had gone back to the dying
Jahnt and he called me. Blood was gushing now from Jahnt's mouth; he
was gasping, but still he was trying ironically to smile.

"I--did not tell Curtmann's men that I had Venta. Why should I be
in the battle? I just thought I would stay here with Venta, and if
Curtmann won, then I would join him."

"Has he started from Shan?" Jim demanded.

"Oh--yes. He and his men must be half way to the Forest City by now. I
am sorry now I did not go with them."

I had a sudden thought. "Is he planning to use that spaceship of his?"

Jahnt was choking now with the blood in his throat. Then he gasped,
"No--his men said they--could not handle it--so close to the
ground--such a--short distance. They are on foot--in the forest--"

Venta was with us now, bending down over the dying Jahnt. His glazing
eyes saw her, and he murmured, "You--if you had loved me--this would
not have happened. I'm dying--you'll all die when--Curtmann uses those
weapons against you. I'm--glad of that--"

His body twitched. Horribly the blood rattled in his throat, choking
him; and then in another moment he was gone.

"They're half way to the Forest City," Jim muttered. "Good Lord, we've
got to stop them. But how? How can we do it, Art?"

Venta was standing apart from us, with the tiny Meeta on her shoulder.
They were murmuring together, and abruptly Meeta flew to me.

"She says it is right and it can be done. We Midges--serve the Gods,
and surely now we know the good Gods from the evil."

       *       *       *       *       *

An army of the Little People! Jim and I stood blankly listening while
Venta told us what she and Meeta had been planning. A myriad of Midges
could be rallied now. And they had human intelligence.... Only a foot
high, or less. But, especially the females, they could fly with the
agility of humming birds.

"And we can be armed," Meeta cried. She hummed away, came back in a
moment. In her tiny hand there was a thorn. It was no more than two
inches long, but to her it was a sword, stiff and sharp as a needle.

"The poisoned enta-thorn!" Venta exclaimed. "But I did not know that
any of the enta-shrub was near here."

"I found it," Meeta said proudly. "There is much of it."

