Marchbanks moved on he heard a roar from the 
distant cabin that echoed through the darkness right 
to the top of the Astronomy Tower. Several of the 
people around Harry ducked out from behind their 
telescopes and peered instead in the direction of 
Hagrid’s cabin. 

Professor Tofty gave another dry little cough. 

“Try and concentrate, now, boys and girls,” he said 
softly. 

Most people returned to their telescopes. Harry looked 
to his left. Hermione was gazing transfixed at 
Hagrid’s. 

“Ahem — twenty minutes to go,” said Professor Tofty. 

Hermione jumped and returned at once to her star 
chart; Harry looked down at his own and noticed that 



Page | 919Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he had mislabelled Venus as Mars. He bent to correct 
it. 

There was a loud BANG from the grounds. Several 
people said “Ouch!” as they poked themselves in the 
face with the ends of their telescopes, hastening to 
see what was going on below. 

Hagrid’s door had burst open and by the light flooding 
out of the cabin they saw him quite clearly, a massive 
figure roaring and brandishing his fists, surrounded 
by six people, all of whom, judging by the tiny threads 
of red light they were casting in his direction, seemed 
to be attempting to Stun him. 

“No!” cried Hermione. 

“My dear!” said Professor Tofty in a scandalized voice. 
“This is an examination!” 

But nobody was paying the slightest attention to their 
star charts anymore: Jets of red light were still flying 
beside Hagrid’s cabin, yet somehow they seemed to be 
bouncing off him. He was still upright and still, as far 
as Harry could see, fighting. Cries and yells echoed 
across the grounds; a man yelled, “Be reasonable, 
Hagrid!” and Hagrid roared, “Reasonable be damned, 
yeh won’ take me like this, Dawlish!” 

Harry could see the tiny outline of Fang, attempting 
to defend Hagrid, leaping at the wizards surrounding 
him until a Stunning Spell caught him and he fell to 
the ground. Hagrid gave a howl of fury, lifted the 
culprit bodily from the ground, and threw him: The 
man flew what looked like ten feet and did not get up 
again. Hermione gasped, both hands over her mouth; 
Harry looked around at Ron and saw that he too was 
looking scared. None of them had ever seen Hagrid in 
a real temper before... 

Page | 920Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Look!” squealed Parvati, who was leaning over the 
parapet and pointing to the foot of the castle where 
the front doors seemed to have opened again; more 
light had spilled out onto the dark lawn and a single 
long black shadow was now rippling across the lawn. 

“Now, really!” said Professor Tofty anxiously. “Only 
sixteen minutes left, you know!” 

But nobody paid him the slightest attention: They 
were watching the person now sprinting toward the 
battle beside Hagrid’s cabin. 

“How dare you!” the figure shouted as she ran. “How 
dare you!” 

“It’s McGonagall!” whispered Hermione. 

“Leave him alone! Alone, I say!” said Professor 
McGonagall’s voice through the darkness. “On what 
grounds are you attacking him? He has done nothing, 
nothing to warrant such — ” 

Hermione, Parvati, and Lavender all screamed. No 
fewer than four Stunners had shot from the figures 
around the cabin toward Professor McGonagall. 
Halfway between cabin and castle the red beams 
collided with her. For a moment she looked luminous, 
illuminated by an eerie red glow, then was lifted right 
off her feet, landed hard on her back, and moved no 
more. 

“Galloping gargoyles!” shouted Professor Tofty, who 
seemed to have forgotten the exam completely. “Not 
so much as a warning! Outrageous behavior!” 

“COWARDS!” bellowed Hagrid, his voice carrying 
clearly to the top of the tower, and several lights 



Page | 921Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




flickered back on inside the castle. “RUDDY 
COWARDS! HAVE SOME O’ THAT — AN’ THAT — ” 

“Oh my — ” gasped Hermione. 

Hagrid took two massive swipes at his closest 
attackers; judging by their immediate collapse, they 
had been knocked cold. Harry saw him double over 
and thought for a moment that he had finally been 
overcome by a spell, but on the contrary, next 
moment Hagrid was standing again with what 
appeared to be a sack on his back — then Harry 
realized that Fang’s limp body was draped around his 
shoulders. 

“Get him, get him!” screamed Umbridge, but her 
remaining helper seemed highly reluctant to go within 
reach of Hagrid ’s fists. Indeed, he was backing away 
so fast he tripped over one of his unconscious 
colleagues and fell over. Hagrid had turned and 
begun to run with Fang still hung around his neck; 
Umbridge sent one last Stunning Spell after him but 
it missed, and Hagrid, running full-pelt toward the 
distant gates, disappeared into the darkness. 

There was a long minute’s quivering silence, 
everybody gazing openmouthed into the grounds. 
Then Professor Tofty’s voice said feebly, “Um ... five 
minutes to go, everybody ...” 

Though he had only filled in two-thirds of his chart, 
Harry was desperate for the end of the exam. When it 
came at last he, Ron, and Hermione forced their 
telescopes haphazardly back into their holders and 
dashed back down the spiral staircase. None of the 
students were going to bed — they were all talking 
loudly and excitedly at the foot of the stairs about 
what they had witnessed. 



Page | 922Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“That evil woman!” gasped Hermione, who seemed to 
be having difficulty talking due to rage. “Trying to 
sneak up on Hagrid in the dead of night!” 

“She clearly wanted to avoid another scene like 
Trelawney’s,” said Ernie Macmillan sagely, squeezing 
over to join them. 

“Hagrid did well, didn’t he?” said Ron, who looked 
more alarmed than impressed. “How come all the 
spells bounced off him?” 

“It’ll be his giant blood,” said Hermione shakily. “It’s 
very hard to Stun a giant, they’re like trolls, really 
tough... But poor Professor McGonagall... Four 
Stunners straight in the chest, and she’s not exactly 
young, is she?” 

“Dreadful, dreadful,” said Ernie, shaking his head 
pompously. “Well, I’m off to bed... ’Night, all ...” 

People around them were drifting away, still talking 
excitedly about what they had just seen. 

“At least they didn’t get to take Hagrid off to 
Azkaban,” said Ron. “I ’spect he’s gone to join 
Dumbledore, hasn’t he?” 

“I suppose so,” said Hermione, who looked tearful. 
“Oh, this is awful, I really thought Dumbledore would 
be back before long, but now we’ve lost Hagrid too...” 

They traipsed back to the Gryffindor common room to 
find it full. The commotion out in the grounds had 
woken several people, who had hastened to rouse 
their friends. Seamus and Dean, who had arrived 
ahead of Harry, Ron, and Hermione, were now telling 
everyone what they had heard from the top of the 
Astronomy Tower. 

Page | 923Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But why sack Hagrid now?” asked Angelina Johnson, 
shaking her head. “It’s not like Trelawney, he’s been 
teaching much better than usual this year!” 

“Umbridge hates part-humans,” said Hermione 
bitterly, flopping down into an armchair. “She was 
always going to try and get Hagrid out.” 

“And she thought Hagrid was putting nifflers in her 
office,” piped up Katie Bell. 

“Oh blimey,” said Lee Jordan, covering his mouth. 

“It’s me’s been putting the nifflers in her office, Fred 
and George left me a couple, I’ve been levitating them 
in through her window...” 

“She’d have sacked him anyway,” said Dean. “He was 
too close to Dumbledore.” 

“That’s true,” said Harry, sinking into an armchair 
beside Hermione ’s. 

“I just hope Professor McGonagall’s all right,” said 
Lavender tearfully. 

“They carried her back up to the castle, we watched 
through the dormitory window,” said Colin Creevey. 
“She didn’t look very well...” 

“Madam Pomfrey will sort her out,” said Alicia 
Spinnet firmly. “She’s never failed yet.” 

It was nearly four in the morning before the common 
room cleared. Harry felt wide awake — the image of 
Hagrid sprinting away into the dark was haunting 
him. He was so angry with Umbridge he could not 
think of a punishment bad enough for her, though 
Ron’s suggestion of having her fed to a box of starving 
Blast-Ended Skrewts had its merits. He fell asleep 
Page | 924Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




contemplating hideous revenges and arose from bed 
three hours later feeling distinctly unrested. 



Their final exam, History of Magic, was not to take 
place until that afternoon. Harry would very much 
have liked to go back to bed after breakfast, but he 
had been counting on the morning for a spot of last- 
minute studying, so instead he sat with his head in 
his hands by the common room window, trying hard 
not to doze off as he read through some of the notes 
stacked three-and-a-half feet high that Hermione had 
lent him. 

The fifth years entered the Great Hall at two o’clock 
and took their places in front of their overturned 
examination papers. Harry felt exhausted. He just 
wanted this to be over so that he could go and sleep. 
Then tomorrow, he and Ron were going to go down to 
the Quidditch pitch — he was going to have a fly on 
Ron’s broom and savor their freedom from studying... 

“Turn over your papers,” said Professor Marchbanks 
from the front of the Hall, flicking over the giant 
hourglass. “You may begin...” 

Harry stared fixedly at the first question. It was 
several seconds before it occurred to him that he had 
not taken in a word of it; there was a wasp buzzing 
distractingly against one of the high windows. Slowly, 
tortuously, he began to write an answer. 

He was finding it very difficult to remember names 
and kept confusing dates. He simply skipped question 
four: In your opinion, did wand legislation contribute 
to, or lead to better control of, goblin riots of the 
eighteenth century? thinking that he would go back to 
it if he had time at the end. He had a stab at question 
five: How was the Statute of Secrecy breached in 1 749 
and what measures were introduced to prevent a 
Page | 925Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




recurrence? but had a nagging suspicion that he had 
missed several important points. He had a feeling 
vampires had come into the story somewhere... 

He looked ahead for a question he could definitely 
answer and his eyes alighted upon number ten. 

Describe the circumstances that led to the Formation 
of the International Confederation of Wizards and 
explain why the warlocks of Liechtenstein refused to 
join. 

I know this, Harry thought, though his brain felt 
torpid and slack. He could visualize a heading, in 
Hermione’s handwriting: The Formation of the 
International Confederation of Wizards. . . He had read 
these notes only this morning... 

He began to write, looking up now and again to check 
the large hourglass on the desk beside Professor 
Marchbanks. He was sitting right behind Parvati 
Patil, whose long dark hair fell below the back of her 
chair. Once or twice he found himself staring at the 
tiny golden lights that glistened in it when she moved 
her head very slightly and had to give his own head a 
little shake to clear it. 

... the first Supreme Mugwump of the International 
Confederation of Wizards was Pierre Bonaccord, but 
his appointment was contested by the Wizarding 
community of Liechtenstein, because — 

All around Harry quills were scratching on parchment 
like scurrying, burrowing rats. The sun was very hot 
on the back of his head. What was it that Bonaccord 
had done to offend the wizards of Liechtenstein? 

Harry had a feeling it had something to do with 
trolls... He gazed blankly at the back of Parvati ’s head 
again. If he could only perform Legilimency and open 
Page | 926Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




a window in the back of her head and see what it was 
about trolls that had caused the breach between 
Pierre Bonaccord and Liechtenstein... 



Harry closed his eyes and buried his face in his 
hands, so that the glowing red of his eyelids grew 
dark and cool. Bonaccord had wanted to stop troll- 
hunting and give the trolls rights . . . but Liechtenstein 
was having problems with a tribe of particularly 
vicious mountain trolls... That was it... 

He opened his eyes; they stung and watered at the 
sight of the blazing- white parchment. Slowly he wrote 
two lines about the trolls then read through what he 
had done so far. It did not seem very informative or 
detailed, yet he was sure Hermione’s notes on the 
confederation had gone on for pages and pages... 

He closed his eyes again, trying to see them, trying to 
remember. . . The confederation had met for the first 
time in France, yes, he had written that already... 

Goblins had tried to attend and been ousted... He had 
written that too... 

And nobody from Liechtenstein had wanted to come 



Think, he told himself, his face in his hands, while all 
around him quills scratched out never-ending 
answers and the sand trickled through the hourglass 
at the front... 

He was walking along the cool, dark corridor to the 
Department of Mysteries again, walking with a firm 
and purposeful tread, breaking occasionally into a 
run, determined to reach his destination at last... The 
black door swung open for him as usual, and here he 
was in the circular room with its many doors... 

Page | 927Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Straight across the stone floor and through the 
second door . . . patches of dancing light on the walls 
and floor and that odd mechanical clicking, but no 
time to explore, he must hurry... 

He jogged the last few feet to the third door, which 
swung open just like the others... 

Once again he was in the cathedral-sized room full of 
shelves and glass spheres... His heart was beating 
very fast now... He was going to get there this time... 
When he reached number ninety-seven he turned left 
and hurried along the aisle between two rows... 

But there was a shape on the floor at the very end, a 
black shape moving upon the floor like a wounded 
animal... Harry’s stomach contracted with fear ... with 
excitement... 

A voice issued from his own mouth, a high, cold voice 
empty of any human kindness, “Take it for me... Lift it 
down, now... I cannot touch it ... but you can...” 

The black shape upon the floor shifted a little. Harry 
saw a long-fingered white hand clutching a wand rise 
on the end of his own arm . . . heard the high, cold 
voice say, “ Cruciol ” 

The man on the floor let out a scream of pain, 
attempted to stand but fell back, writhing. Harry was 
laughing. He raised his wand, the curse lifted, and 
the figure groaned and became motionless. 

“Lord Voldemort is waiting...” 

Very slowly, his arms trembling, the man on the 
ground raised his shoulders a few inches and lifted 
his head. His face was bloodstained and gaunt, 
twisted in pain yet rigid with defiance... 

Page | 928Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ll have to kill me,” whispered Sirius. 

“Undoubtedly I shall in the end,” said the cold voice. 
“But you will fetch it for me first, Black... You think 
you have felt pain thus far? Think again... We have 
hours ahead of us and nobody to hear you scream...” 

But somebody screamed as Voldemort lowered his 
wand again; somebody yelled and fell sideways off a 
hot desk onto the cold stone floor. Harry hit the 
ground and awoke, still yelling, his scar on fire, as the 
Great Hall erupted all around him. 



Page | 929Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






OUT OF THE FIRE 

“I’m not going... I don’t need the hospital wing... I 
don’t want ...” 

He was gibbering, trying to pull away from Professor 
Tofty, who was looking at him with much concern, 
and who had just helped Harry out into the entrance 
hall while the students all around them stared. 

“I’m — I’m fine, sir,” Harry stammered, wiping the 
sweat from his face. “Really ... I just fell asleep... Had 
a nightmare ...” 

“Pressure of examinations!” said the old wizard 
sympathetically, patting Harry shakily on the 
shoulder. “It happens, young man, it happens! Now, a 
cooling drink of water, and perhaps you will be ready 
to return to the Great Hall? The examination is nearly 
over, but you may be able to round off your last 
answer nicely?” 

“Yes,” said Harry wildly. “I mean ... no ... I’ve done — 
done as much as I can, I think...” 

Page | 930Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“Very well, very well,” said the old wizard gently. “I 
shall go and collect your examination paper, and I 
suggest that you go and have a nice lie down...” 

“I’ll do that,” said Harry, nodding vigorously. “Thanks 
very much.” 

He waited for the second when the old man’s heels 
disappeared over the threshold into the Great Hall, 
then ran up the marble staircase and then more 
staircases toward the hospital wing, hurtling along 
the corridors so fast that the portraits he passed 
muttered reproaches, and burst through the double 
doors like a hurricane, causing Madam Pomfrey, who 
had been spooning some bright blue liquid into 
Montague’s open mouth, to shriek in alarm. 

“Potter, what do you think you’re doing?” 

“I need to see Professor McGonagall,” gasped Harry, 
the breath tearing his lungs. “Now ... It’s urgent...” 

“She’s not here, Potter,” said Madam Pomfrey sadly. 
“She was transferred to St. Mungo’s this morning. 
Four Stunning Spells straight to the chest at her age? 
It’s a wonder they didn’t kill her.” 

“She’s ... gone?” said Harry, stunned. 

The bell rang just outside the dormitory, and he 
heard the usual distant rumbling of students starting 
to flood out into the corridors above and below him. 
He remained quite still, looking at Madam Pomfrey. 
Terror was rising inside him. 

There was nobody left to tell. Dumbledore had gone, 
Hagrid had gone, but he had always expected 
Professor McGonagall to be there, irascible and 



Page | 931Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




inflexible, perhaps, but always dependably, solidly 
present... 

“I don’t wonder you’re shocked, Potter,” said Madam 
Pomfrey with a kind of fierce approval in her face. “As 
if one of them could have Stunned Minerva 
McGonagall face on by daylight! Cowardice, that’s 
what it was... Despicable cowardice ... If I wasn’t 
worried what would happen to you students without 
me, I’d resign in protest...” 

“Yes,” said Harry blankly. 

He strode blindly from the hospital wing into the 
teeming corridor where he stood, buffeted by the 
crowd, the panic expanding inside him like poison gas 
so that his head swam and he could not think what to 
do... 

Ron and Hermione, said a voice in his head. 

He was running again, pushing students out of the 
way, oblivious to their angry protests and shouts. He 
sprinted back down two floors and was at the top of 
the marble staircase when he saw them hurrying 
toward him. 

“Harry!” said Hermione at once, looking very 
frightened. “What happened? Are you all right? Are 
you ill?” 

“Where have you been?” demanded Ron. 

“Come with me,” Harry said quickly. “Come on, I’ve 
got to tell you something...” 

He led them along the first-floor corridor, peering 
through doorways, and at last found an empty 
classroom into which he dived, closing the door 

Page | 932Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




behind Ron and Hermione the moment they were 
inside and leaning against it, facing them. 

“Voldemort’s got Sirius.” 

“What?” 

“How d’you — ?” 

“Saw it. Just now. When I fell asleep in the exam.” 

“But — but where? How?” said Hermione, whose face 
was white. 

“I dunno how,” said Harry. “But I know exactly where. 
There’s a room in the Department of Mysteries full of 
shelves covered in these little glass balls, and they’re 
at the end of row ninety-seven ... He’s trying to use 
Sirius to get whatever it is he wants from in there... 
He’s torturing him... Says he’ll end by killing him ...” 

Harry found his voice was shaking, as were his knees. 
He moved over to a desk and sat down on it, trying to 
master himself. 

“How’re we going to get there?” he asked them. 

There was a moment’s silence. Then Ron said, “G-get 
there?” 

“Get to the Department of Mysteries, so we can rescue 
Sirius!” Harry said loudly. 

“But — Harry ...” said Ron weakly. 

“What? What?” said Harry. 



Page | 933Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He could not understand why they were both gaping 
at him as though he was asking them something 
unreasonable. 

“Harry,” said Hermione in a rather frightened voice, 

“er . . . how . . . how did Voldemort get into the Ministry 
of Magic without anybody realizing he was there?” 

“How do I know?” bellowed Harry. “The question is 
how we’re going to get in there!” 

“But ... Harry, think about this,” said Hermione, 
taking a step toward him, “it’s five o’clock in the 
afternoon... The Ministry of Magic must be full of 
workers... How would Voldemort and Sirius have got 
in without being seen? Harry . . . they’re probably the 
two most wanted wizards in the world... You think 
they could get into a building full of Aurors 
undetected?” 

“I dunno, Voldemort used an Invisibility Cloak or 
something!” Harry shouted. “Anyway, the Department 
of Mysteries has always been completely empty 
whenever I’ve been — ” 

“You’ve never been there, Harry,” said Hermione 
quietly. “You’ve dreamed about the place, that’s all.” 

“They’re not normal dreams!” Harry shouted in her 
face, standing up and taking a step closer to her in 
turn. He wanted to shake her. “How d’you explain 
Ron’s dad then, what was all that about, how come I 
knew what had happened to him?” 

“He’s got a point,” said Ron quietly, looking at 
Hermione. 

“But this is just — just so unlikely\” said Hermione 
desperately. “Harry, how on earth could Voldemort 

Page | 934Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have got hold of Sirius when he’s been in Grimmauld 
Place all the time?” 

“Sirius might’ve cracked and just wanted some fresh 
air,” said Ron, sounding worried. “He’s been 
desperate to get out of that house for ages — ” 

“But why,” Hermione persisted, “why on earth would 
Voldemort want to use Sirius to get the weapon, or 
whatever the thing is?” 

“I dunno, there could be loads of reasons!” Harry 
yelled at her. “Maybe Sirius is just someone 
Voldemort doesn’t care about seeing hurt — ” 

“You know what, I’ve just thought of something,” said 
Ron in a hushed voice. “Sirius’s brother was a Death 
Eater, wasn’t he? Maybe he told Sirius the secret of 
how to get the weapon!” 

“Yeah — and that’s why Dumbledore’s been so keen 
to keep Sirius locked up all the time!” said Harry. 

“Look, I’m sorry,” cried Hermione, “but neither of you 
are making sense, and we’ve got no proof for any of 
this, no proof Voldemort and Sirius are even there — ” 

“Hermione, Harry’s seen them!” said Ron, rounding 
on her. 

“Okay,” she said, looking frightened yet determined, 
“I’ve just got to say this...” 

“What?” 

“You ... This isn’t a criticism, Harry! But you do ... 
sort of ... I mean — don’t you think you’ve got a bit of 
a — a — saving-people-thing?” she said. 



Page | 935Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He glared at her. “And what’s that supposed to mean, 
a ‘saving-people-thing’?” 

“Well ... you ...” She looked more apprehensive than 
ever. “I mean . . . last year, for instance ... in the lake 
... during the Tournament ... you shouldn’t have ... I 
mean, you didn’t need to save that little Delacour 
girl... You got a bit ... carried away ...” 

A wave of hot, prickly anger swept Harry’s body — 
how could she remind him of that blunder now? 

"... I mean, it was really great of you and everything,” 
said Hermione quickly, looking positively petrified at 
the look on Harry’s face. “Everyone thought it was a 
wonderful thing to do — ” 

“That’s funny,” said Harry in a trembling voice, 
“because I definitely remember Ron saying I’d wasted 
time acting the hero... Is that what you think this is? 
You reckon I want to act the hero again?” 

“No, no, no!” said Hermione, looking aghast. “That’s 
not what I mean at all!” 

“Well, spit out what you’ve got to say, because we’re 
wasting time here!” Harry shouted. 

“I’m trying to say — Voldemort knows you, Harry! He 
took Ginny down into the Chamber of Secrets to lure 
you there, it’s the kind of thing he does, he knows 
you’re the — the sort of person who’d go to Sirius’s 
aid! What if he’s just trying to get you into the 
Department of Myst — ?” 

“Hermione, it doesn’t matter if he’s done it to get me 
there or not — they’ve taken McGonagall to St. 
Mungo’s, there isn’t anyone left from the Order at 



Page | 936Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hogwarts who we can tell, and if we don’t go, Sirius is 
dead!” 



“But Harry — what if your dream was — was just 
that, a dream?” 

Harry let out a roar of frustration. Hermione actually 
stepped back from him, looking alarmed. 

“You don’t get it!” Harry shouted at her. “I’m not 
having nightmares, I’m not just dreaming! What d’you 
think all the Occlumency was for, why d’you think 
Dumbledore wanted me prevented from seeing these 
things? Because they’re REAL, Hermione — Sirius is 
trapped — I’ve seen him — Voldemort’s got him, and 
no one else knows, and that means we’re the only 
ones who can save him, and if you don’t want to do it, 
fine, but I’m going, understand? And if I remember 
rightly, you didn’t have a problem with my saving - 
people-thing when it was you I was saving from the 
dementors, or” — he rounded on Ron — “when it was 
your sister I was saving from the basilisk — ” 

“I never said I had a problem!” said Ron heatedly. 

“But Harry, you’ve just said it,” said Hermione 
fiercely. “Dumbledore wanted you to learn to shut 
these things out of your mind, if you’d done 
Occlumency properly you’d never have seen this — ” 

“IF YOU THINK I’M JUST GOING TO ACT LIKE I 
HAVEN T SEEN — ” 

“Sirius told you there was nothing more important 
than you learning to close your mind!” 

“WELL, I EXPECT HE’D SAY SOMETHING 
DIFFERENT IF HE KNEW WHAT I’D JUST — ” 

Page | 937Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The classroom door opened. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione whipped around. Ginny walked in, looking 
curious, followed by Luna, who as usual looked as 
though she had drifted in accidentally. 

“Hi,” said Ginny uncertainly. “We recognized Harry’s 
voice — what are you yelling about?” 

“Never you mind,” said Harry roughly. 

Ginny raised her eyebrows. 

“There’s no need to take that tone with me,” she said 
coolly. “I was only wondering whether I could help.” 

“Well, you can’t,” said Harry shortly. 

“You’re being rather rude, you know,” said Luna 
serenely. 

Harry swore and turned away. The very last thing he 
wanted now was a conversation with Luna Lovegood. 

“Wait,” said Hermione suddenly. “Wait ... Harry, they 
can help.” 

Harry and Ron looked at her. 

“Listen,” she said urgently, “Harry, we need to 
establish whether Sirius really has left headquarters 



“I’ve told you, I saw — ” 

“Harry, I’m begging you, please!” said Hermione 
desperately. “Please let’s just check that Sirius isn’t at 
home before we go charging off to London — if we find 
out he’s not there then I swear I won’t try and stop 



Page | 938Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




you, I’ll come, I’ll d-do whatever it takes to try and 
save him — ” 

“Sirius is being tortured NOW!” shouted Harry. “We 
haven’t got time to waste — ” 

“But if this is a trick of V-Voldemort’s — Harry, we’ve 
got to check, we’ve got to — ” 

“How?” Harry demanded. “How’re we going to check?” 

“We’ll have to use Umbridge’s fire and see if we can 
contact him,” said Hermione, who looked positively 
terrified at the thought. “Well draw Umbridge away 
again, but we’ll need lookouts, and that’s where we 
can use Ginny and Luna.” 

Though clearly struggling to understand what was 
going on, Ginny said immediately, “Yeah, well do it,” 
and Luna said, “When you say ‘Sirius,’ are you 
talking about Stubby Boardman?” 

Nobody answered her. 

“Okay,” Harry said aggressively to Hermione, “Okay, if 
you can think of a way of doing this quickly, I’m with 
you, otherwise I’m going to the Department of 
Mysteries right now — ” 

“The Department of Mysteries?” said Luna, looking 
mildly surprised. “But how are you going to get 
there?” 

Again, Harry ignored her. 

“Right,” said Hermione, twisting her hands together 
and pacing up and down between the desks. “Right ... 
well ... One of us has to go and find Umbridge and — 
and send her off in the wrong direction, keep her 

Page | 939Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




away from her office. They could tell her — I don’t 
know — that Peeves is up to something awful as 
usual...” 



“I’ll do it,” said Ron at once. “I’ll tell her Peeves is 
smashing up the Transfiguration department or 
something, it’s miles away from her office. Come to 
think of it, I could probably persuade Peeves to do it if 
I met him on the way...” 

It was a mark of the seriousness of the situation that 
Hermione made no objection to the smashing up of 
the Transfiguration department. 

“Okay,” she said, her brow furrowed as she continued 
to pace. “Now, we need to keep students away from 
her office while we force entry, or some Slytherin’s 
bound to go and tip her off...” 

“Luna and I can stand at either end of the corridor,” 
said Ginny promptly, “and warn people not to go 
down there because someone’s let off a load of 
Garroting Gas.” Hermione looked surprised at the 
readiness with which Ginny had come up with this 
lie. Ginny shrugged and said, “Fred and George were 
planning to do it before they left.” 

“Okay,” said Hermione, “well then, Harry, you and I 
will be under the Invisibility Cloak, and we’ll sneak 
into the office and you can talk to Sirius — ” 

“He’s not there, Hermione!” 

“I mean, you can — can check whether Sirius is at 
home or not while I keep watch, I don’t think you 
should be in there alone, Lee’s already proved the 
window’s a weak spot, sending those nifflers through 
it.” 

Page | 940Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Even through his anger and impatience Harry 
recognized Hermione ’s offer to accompany him into 
Umbridge’s office as a sign of solidarity and loyalty. 

“I ... okay, thanks,” he muttered. 

“Right, well, even if we do all of that, I don’t think 
we’re going to be able to bank on more than five 
minutes,” said Hermione, looking relieved that Harry 
seemed to have accepted the plan, “not with Filch and 
the wretched Inquisitorial Squad floating around.” 

“Five minutes’ll be enough,” said Harry. “C’mon, let’s 
go 



“Now?” said Hermione, looking shocked. 

“Of course now!” said Harry angrily. “What did you 
think, we’re going to wait until after dinner or 
something? Hermione, Sirius is being tortured right 
now\” 

“I — oh all right,” she said desperately. “You go and 
get the Invisibility Cloak and we’ll meet you at the end 
of Umbridge’s corridor, okay?” 

Harry did not answer, but flung himself out of the 
room and began to fight his way through the milling 
crowds outside. Two floors up he met Seamus and 
Dean, who hailed him jovially and told him they were 
planning a dusk-till-dawn end-of-exams celebration 
in the common room. Harry barely heard them. He 
scrambled through the portrait hole while they were 
still arguing about how many black-market 
butterbeers they would need and was climbing back 
out of it, the Invisibility Cloak and Sirius’s knife 
secure in his bag, before they noticed he had left 
them. 



Page | 941Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, d’you want to chip in a couple of Galleons? 
Harold Dingle reckons he could sell us some 
firewhisky...” 

But Harry was already tearing away back along the 
