      memorable drive, the same, with the least suspicion of curiosity,
      the merest touch of malice, and a real desire to do good, was
      passed on to June.

      “And what a _dreadful_ thing to say, my dear!” ended Aunt Juley;
      “that about not going home. What did she mean?”

      It was a strange recital for the girl. She heard it flushing
      painfully, and, suddenly, with a curt handshake, took her
      departure.

      “Almost rude!” Mrs. Small said to Aunt Hester, when June was
      gone.

      The proper construction was put on her reception of the news. She
      was upset. Something was therefore very wrong. Odd! She and Irene
      had been such friends!

      It all tallied too well with whispers and hints that had been
      going about for some time past. Recollections of Euphemia’s
      account of the visit to the theatre—Mr. Bosinney always at
      Soames’s? Oh, indeed! Yes, of course, he _would_ be—about the
      house! Nothing open. Only upon the greatest, the most important
      provocation was it necessary to say anything open on Forsyte
      ’Change. This machine was too nicely adjusted; a hint, the merest
      trifling expression of regret or doubt, sufficed to set the
      family soul so sympathetic—vibrating. No one desired that harm
      should come of these vibrations—far from it; they were set in
      motion with the best intentions, with the feeling that each
      member of the family had a stake in the family soul.

      And much kindness lay at the bottom of the gossip; it would
      frequently result in visits of condolence being made, in
      accordance with the customs of Society, thereby conferring a real
      benefit upon the sufferers, and affording consolation to the
      sound, who felt pleasantly that someone at all events was
      suffering from that from which they themselves were not
      suffering. In fact, it was simply a desire to keep things
      well-aired, the desire which animates the Public Press, that
      brought James, for instance, into communication with Mrs.
      Septimus, Mrs. Septimus, with the little Nicholases, the little
      Nicholases with who-knows-whom, and so on. That great class to
      which they had risen, and now belonged, demanded a certain
      candour, a still more certain reticence. This combination
      guaranteed their membership.

      Many of the younger Forsytes felt, very naturally, and would
      openly declare, that they did not want their affairs pried into;
      but so powerful was the invisible, magnetic current of family
      gossip, that for the life of them they could not help knowing all
      about everything. It was felt to be hopeless.

      One of them (young Roger) had made an heroic attempt to free the
      rising generation, by speaking of Timothy as an “old cat.” The
      effort had justly recoiled upon himself; the words, coming round
      in the most delicate way to Aunt Juley’s ears, were repeated by
      her in a shocked voice to Mrs. Roger, whence they returned again
      to young Roger.

      And, after all, it was only the wrong-doers who suffered; as, for
      instance, George, when he lost all that money playing billiards;
      or young Roger himself, when he was so dreadfully near to
      marrying the girl to whom, it was whispered, he was already
      married by the laws of Nature; or again Irene, who was thought,
      rather than said, to be in danger.

      All this was not only pleasant but salutary. And it made so many
      hours go lightly at Timothy’s in the Bayswater Road; so many
      hours that must otherwise have been sterile and heavy to those
      three who lived there; and Timothy’s was but one of hundreds of
      such homes in this City of London—the homes of neutral persons of
      the secure classes, who are out of the battle themselves, and
      must find their reason for existing, in the battles of others.

      But for the sweetness of family gossip, it must indeed have been
      lonely there. Rumours and tales, reports, surmises—were they not
      the children of the house, as dear and precious as the prattling
      babes the brother and sisters had missed in their own journey? To
      talk about them was as near as they could get to the possession
      of all those children and grandchildren, after whom their soft
      hearts yearned. For though it is doubtful whether Timothy’s heart
      yearned, it is indubitable that at the arrival of each fresh
      Forsyte child he was quite upset.

      Useless for young Roger to say, “Old cat!” for Euphemia to hold
      up her hands and cry: “Oh! those three!” and break into her
      silent laugh with the squeak at the end. Useless, and not too
      kind.

      The situation which at this stage might seem, and especially to
      Forsyte eyes, strange—not to say “impossible”—was, in view of
      certain facts, not so strange after all.

      Some things had been lost sight of.

      And first, in the security bred of many harmless marriages, it
      had been forgotten that Love is no hot-house flower, but a wild
      plant, born of a wet night, born of an hour of sunshine; sprung
      from wild seed, blown along the road by a wild wind. A wild plant
      that, when it blooms by chance within the hedge of our gardens,
      we call a flower; and when it blooms outside we call a weed; but,
      flower or weed, whose scent and colour are always, wild!

      And further—the facts and figures of their own lives being
      against the perception of this truth—it was not generally
      recognised by Forsytes that, where this wild plant springs, men
      and women are but moths around the pale, flame-like blossom.

      It was long since young Jolyon’s escapade—there was danger of a
      tradition again arising that people in their position never cross
      the hedge to pluck that flower; that one could reckon on having
      love, like measles, once in due season, and getting over it
      comfortably for all time—as with measles, on a soothing mixture
      of butter and honey—in the arms of wedlock.

      Of all those whom this strange rumour about Bosinney and Mrs.
      Soames reached, James was the most affected. He had long
      forgotten how he had hovered, lanky and pale, in side whiskers of
      chestnut hue, round Emily, in the days of his own courtship. He
      had long forgotten the small house in the purlieus of Mayfair,
      where he had spent the early days of his married life, or rather,
      he had long forgotten the early days, not the small house,—a
      Forsyte never forgot a house—he had afterwards sold it at a clear
      profit of four hundred pounds.

      He had long forgotten those days, with their hopes and fears and
      doubts about the prudence of the match (for Emily, though pretty,
      had nothing, and he himself at that time was making a bare
      thousand a year), and that strange, irresistible attraction which
      had drawn him on, till he felt he must die if he could not marry
      the girl with the fair hair, looped so neatly back, the fair arms
      emerging from a skin-tight bodice, the fair form decorously
      shielded by a cage of really stupendous circumference.

      James had passed through the fire, but he had passed also through
      the river of years which washes out the fire; he had experienced
      the saddest experience of all—forgetfulness of what it was like
      to be in love.

      Forgotten! Forgotten so long, that he had forgotten even that he
      had forgotten.

      And now this rumour had come upon him, this rumour about his
      son’s wife; very vague, a shadow dodging among the palpable,
      straightforward appearances of things, unreal, unintelligible as
      a ghost, but carrying with it, like a ghost, inexplicable terror.

      He tried to bring it home to his mind, but it was no more use
      than trying to apply to himself one of those tragedies he read of
      daily in his evening paper. He simply could not. There could be
      nothing in it. It was all their nonsense. She didn’t get on with
      Soames as well as she might, but she was a good little thing—a
      good little thing!

      Like the not inconsiderable majority of men, James relished a
      nice little bit of scandal, and would say, in a matter-of-fact
      tone, licking his lips, “Yes, yes—she and young Dyson; they tell
      me they’re living at Monte Carlo!”

      But the significance of an affair of this sort—of its past, its
      present, or its future—had never struck him. What it meant, what
      torture and raptures had gone to its construction, what slow,
      overmastering fate had lurked within the facts, very naked,
      sometimes sordid, but generally spicy, presented to his gaze. He
      was not in the habit of blaming, praising, drawing deductions, or
      generalizing at all about such things; he simply listened rather
      greedily, and repeated what he was told, finding considerable
      benefit from the practice, as from the consumption of a sherry
      and bitters before a meal.

      Now, however, that such a thing—or rather the rumour, the breath
      of it—had come near him personally, he felt as in a fog, which
      filled his mouth full of a bad, thick flavour, and made it
      difficult to draw breath.

      A scandal! A possible scandal!

      To repeat this word to himself thus was the only way in which he
      could focus or make it thinkable. He had forgotten the sensations
      necessary for understanding the progress, fate, or meaning of any
      such business; he simply could no longer grasp the possibilities
      of people running any risk for the sake of passion.

      Amongst all those persons of his acquaintance, who went into the
      City day after day and did their business there, whatever it was,
      and in their leisure moments bought shares, and houses, and ate
      dinners, and played games, as he was told, it would have seemed
      to him ridiculous to suppose that there were any who would run
      risks for the sake of anything so recondite, so figurative, as
      passion.

      Passion! He seemed, indeed, to have heard of it, and rules such
      as “A young man and a young woman ought never to be trusted
      together” were fixed in his mind as the parallels of latitude are
      fixed on a map (for all Forsytes, when it comes to “bed-rock”
      matters of fact, have quite a fine taste in realism); but as to
      anything else—well, he could only appreciate it at all through
      the catch-word “scandal.”

      Ah! but there was no truth in it—could not be. He was not afraid;
      she was really a good little thing. But there it was when you got
      a thing like that into your mind. And James was of a nervous
      temperament—one of those men whom things will not leave alone,
      who suffer tortures from anticipation and indecision. For fear of
      letting something slip that he might otherwise secure, he was
      physically unable to make up his mind until absolutely certain
      that, by not making it up, he would suffer loss.

      In life, however, there were many occasions when the business of
      making up his mind did not even rest with himself, and this was
      one of them.

      What could he do? Talk it over with Soames? That would only make
      matters worse. And, after all, there was nothing in it, he felt
      sure.

      It was all that house. He had mistrusted the idea from the first.
      What did Soames want to go into the country for? And, if he must
      go spending a lot of money building himself a house, why not have
      a first-rate man, instead of this young Bosinney, whom nobody
      knew anything about? He had told them how it would be. And he had
      heard that the house was costing Soames a pretty penny beyond
      what he had reckoned on spending.

      This fact, more than any other, brought home to James the real
      danger of the situation. It was always like this with these
      “artistic” chaps; a sensible man should have nothing to say to
      them. He had warned Irene, too. And see what had come of it!

      And it suddenly sprang into James’s mind that he ought to go and
      see for himself. In the midst of that fog of uneasiness in which
      his mind was enveloped the notion that he could go and look at
      the house afforded him inexplicable satisfaction. It may have
      been simply the decision to do something—more possibly the fact
      that he was going to look at a house—that gave him relief. He
      felt that in staring at an edifice of bricks and mortar, of wood
      and stone, built by the suspected man himself, he would be
      looking into the heart of that rumour about Irene.

      Without saying a word, therefore, to anyone, he took a hansom to
      the station and proceeded by train to Robin Hill; thence—there
      being no “flies,” in accordance with the custom of the
      neighbourhood—he found himself obliged to walk.

      He started slowly up the hill, his angular knees and high
      shoulders bent complainingly, his eyes fixed on his feet, yet,
      neat for all that, in his high hat and his frock-coat, on which
      was the speckless gloss imparted by perfect superintendence.
      Emily saw to that; that is, she did not, of course, see to
      it—people of good position not seeing to each other’s buttons,
      and Emily was of good position—but she saw that the butler saw to
      it.

      He had to ask his way three times; on each occasion he repeated
      the directions given him, got the man to repeat them, then
      repeated them a second time, for he was naturally of a talkative
      disposition, and one could not be too careful in a new
      neighbourhood.

      He kept assuring them that it was a new house he was looking for;
      it was only, however, when he was shown the roof through the
      trees that he could feel really satisfied that he had not been
      directed entirely wrong.

      A heavy sky seemed to cover the world with the grey whiteness of
      a whitewashed ceiling. There was no freshness or fragrance in the
      air. On such a day even British workmen scarcely cared to do more
      then they were obliged, and moved about their business without
      the drone of talk which whiles away the pangs of labour.

      Through spaces of the unfinished house, shirt-sleeved figures
      worked slowly, and sounds arose—spasmodic knockings, the scraping
      of metal, the sawing of wood, with the rumble of wheelbarrows
      along boards; now and again the foreman’s dog, tethered by a
      string to an oaken beam, whimpered feebly, with a sound like the
      singing of a kettle.

      The fresh-fitted window-panes, daubed each with a white patch in
      the centre, stared out at James like the eyes of a blind dog.

      And the building chorus went on, strident and mirthless under the
      grey-white sky. But the thrushes, hunting amongst the
      fresh-turned earth for worms, were silent quite.

      James picked his way among the heaps of gravel—the drive was
      being laid—till he came opposite the porch. Here he stopped and
      raised his eyes. There was but little to see from this point of
      view, and that little he took in at once; but he stayed in this
      position many minutes, and who shall know of what he thought.

      His china-blue eyes under white eyebrows that jutted out in
      little horns, never stirred; the long upper lip of his wide
      mouth, between the fine white whiskers, twitched once or twice;
      it was easy to see from that anxious rapt expression, whence
      Soames derived the handicapped look which sometimes came upon his
      face. James might have been saying to himself: “I don’t
      know—life’s a tough job.”

      In this position Bosinney surprised him.

      James brought his eyes down from whatever bird’s-nest they had
      been looking for in the sky to Bosinney’s face, on which was a
      kind of humorous scorn.

      “How do you do, Mr. Forsyte? Come down to see for yourself?”

      It was exactly what James, as we know, had come for, and he was
      made correspondingly uneasy. He held out his hand, however,
      saying:

      “How are you?” without looking at Bosinney.

      The latter made way for him with an ironical smile.

      James scented something suspicious in this courtesy. “I should
      like to walk round the outside first,” he said, “and see what
      you’ve been doing!”

      A flagged terrace of rounded stones with a list of two or three
      inches to port had been laid round the south-east and south-west
      sides of the house, and ran with a bevelled edge into mould,
      which was in preparation for being turfed; along this terrace
      James led the way.

      “Now what did _this_ cost?” he asked, when he saw the terrace
      extending round the corner.

      “What should you think?” inquired Bosinney.

      “How should I know?” replied James somewhat nonplussed; “two or
      three hundred, I dare say!”

      “The exact sum!”

      James gave him a sharp look, but the architect appeared
      unconscious, and he put the answer down to mishearing.

      On arriving at the garden entrance, he stopped to look at the
      view.

      “That ought to come down,” he said, pointing to the oak-tree.

      “You think so? You think that with the tree there you don’t get
      enough view for your money.”

      Again James eyed him suspiciously—this young man had a peculiar
      way of putting things: “Well!” he said, with a perplexed,
      nervous, emphasis, “I don’t see what you want with a tree.”

      “It shall come down to-morrow,” said Bosinney.

      James was alarmed. “Oh,” he said, “don’t go saying I said it was
      to come down! _I_ know nothing about it!”

      “No?”

      James went on in a fluster: “Why, what should I know about it?
      It’s nothing to do with me! You do it on your own
      responsibility.”

      “You’ll allow me to mention your name?”

      James grew more and more alarmed: “I don’t know what you want
      mentioning my name for,” he muttered; “you’d better leave the
      tree alone. It’s not your tree!”

      He took out a silk handkerchief and wiped his brow. They entered
      the house. Like Swithin, James was impressed by the inner
      court-yard.

      “You must have spent a deuce of a lot of money here,” he said,
      after staring at the columns and gallery for some time. “Now,
      what did it cost to put up those columns?”

      “I can’t tell you off-hand,” thoughtfully answered Bosinney, “but
      I know it was a deuce of a lot!”

      “I should think so,” said James. “I should....” He caught the
      architect’s eye, and broke off. And now, whenever he came to
      anything of which he desired to know the cost, he stifled that
      curiosity.

      Bosinney appeared determined that he should see everything, and
      had not James been of too “noticing” a nature, he would certainly
      have found himself going round the house a second time. He seemed
      so anxious to be asked questions, too, that James felt he must be
      on his guard. He began to suffer from his exertions, for, though
      wiry enough for a man of his long build, he was seventy-five
      years old.

      He grew discouraged; he seemed no nearer to anything, had not
      obtained from his inspection any of the knowledge he had vaguely
      hoped for. He had merely increased his dislike and mistrust of
      this young man, who had tired him out with his politeness, and in
      whose manner he now certainly detected mockery.

      The fellow was sharper than he had thought, and better-looking
      than he had hoped. He had a—a “don’t care” appearance that James,
      to whom risk was the most intolerable thing in life, did not
      appreciate; a peculiar smile, too, coming when least expected;
      and very queer eyes. He reminded James, as he said afterwards, of
      a hungry cat. This was as near as he could get, in conversation
      with Emily, to a description of the peculiar exasperation,
      velvetiness, and mockery, of which Bosinney’s manner had been
      composed.

      At last, having seen all that was to be seen, he came out again
      at the door where he had gone in; and now, feeling that he was
      wasting time and strength and money, all for nothing, he took the
      courage of a Forsyte in both hands, and, looking sharply at
      Bosinney, said:

      “I dare say you see a good deal of my daughter-in-law; now, what
      does _she_ think of the house? But she hasn’t seen it, I
      suppose?”

      This he said, knowing all about Irene’s visit not, of course,
      that there was anything in the visit, except that extraordinary
      remark she had made about “not caring to get home”—and the story
      of how June had taken the news!

      He had determined, by this way of putting the question, to give
      Bosinney a chance, as he said to himself.

      The latter was long in answering, but kept his eyes with
      uncomfortable steadiness on James.

      “She _has_ seen the house, but I can’t tell you what she thinks
      of it.”

      Nervous and baffled, James was constitutionally prevented from
      letting the matter drop.

      “Oh!” he said, “she has seen it? Soames brought her down, I
      suppose?”

      Bosinney smilingly replied: “Oh, no!”

      “What, did she come down alone?”

      “Oh, no!”

      “Then—who brought her?”

      “I really don’t know whether I ought to tell you who brought
      her.”

      To James, who knew that it was Swithin, this answer appeared
      incomprehensible.

      “Why!” he stammered, “you know that....” but he stopped, suddenly
      perceiving his danger.

      “Well,” he said, “if you don’t want to tell me I suppose you
      won’t! Nobody tells me anything.”

      Somewhat to his surprise Bosinney asked him a question.

      “By the by,” he said, “could you tell me if there are likely to
      be any more of you coming down? I should like to be on the spot!”

      “Any more?” said James bewildered, “who should there be more? I
      don’t know of any more. Good-bye.”

      Looking at the ground he held out his hand, crossed the palm of
      it with Bosinney’s, and taking his umbrella just above the silk,
      walked away along the terrace.

      Before he turned the corner he glanced back, and saw Bosinney
      following him slowly—“slinking along the wall” as he put it to
      himself, “like a great cat.” He paid no attention when the young
      fellow raised his hat.

      Outside the drive, and out of sight, he slackened his pace still
      more. Very slowly, more bent than when he came, lean, hungry, and
      disheartened, he made his way back to the station.

      The Buccaneer, watching him go so sadly home, felt sorry perhaps
      for his behaviour to the old man.




      CHAPTER V SOAMES AND BOSINNEY CORRESPOND

      James said nothing to his son of this visit to the house; but,
      having occasion to go to Timothy’s one morning on a matter
      connected with a drainage scheme which was being forced by the
      sanitary authorities on his brother, he mentioned it there.

      It was not, he said, a bad house. He could see that a good deal
      could be made of it. The fellow was clever in his way, though
      what it was going to cost Soames before it was done with he
      didn’t know.

      Euphemia Forsyte, who happened to be in the room—she had come
      round to borrow the Rev. Mr. Scoles’ last novel, “Passion and
      Paregoric”, which was having such a vogue—chimed in.

      “I saw Irene yesterday at the Stores; she and Mr. Bosinney were
      having a nice little chat in the Groceries.”

      It was thus, simply, that she recorded a scene which had really
      made a deep and complicated impression on her. She had been
      hurrying to the silk department of the Church and Commercial
      Stores—that Institution than which, with its admirable system,
      admitting only guaranteed persons on a basis of payment before
      delivery, no emporium can be more highly recommended to
      Forsytes—to match a piece of prunella silk for her mother, who
      was waiting in the carriage outside.

      Passing through the Groceries her eye was unpleasantly attracted
      by the back view of a very beautiful figure. It was so charmingly
      proportioned, so balanced, and so well clothed, that Euphemia’s
      instinctive propriety was at once alarmed; such figures, she
      knew, by intuition rather than experience, were rarely connected
      with virtue—certainly never in her mind, for her own back was
      somewhat difficult to fit.

      Her suspicions were fortunately confirmed. A young man coming
      from the Drugs had snatched off his hat, and was accosting the
      lady with the unknown back.

      It was then that she saw with whom she had to deal; the lady was
      undoubtedly Mrs. Soames, the young man Mr. Bosinney. Concealing
      herself rapidly over the purchase of a box of Tunisian dates, for
      she was impatient of awkwardly meeting people with parcels in her
      hands, and at the busy time of the morning, she was quite
      unintentionally an interested observer of their little interview.

      Mrs. Soames, usually somewhat pale, had a delightful colour in
      her cheeks; and Mr. Bosinney’s manner was strange, though
      attractive (she thought him rather a distinguished-looking man,
      and George’s name for him, “The Buccaneer”—about which there was
      something romantic—quite charming). He seemed to be pleading.
      Indeed, they talked so earnestly—or, rather, he talked so
      earnestly, for Mrs. Soames did not say much—that they caused,
      inconsiderately, an eddy in the traffic. One nice old General,
      going towards Cigars, was obliged to step quite out of the way,
      and chancing to look up and see Mrs. Soames’s face, he actually
      took off his hat, the old fool! So like a man!

      But it was Mrs. Soames’ eyes that worried Euphemia. She never
      once looked at Mr. Bosinney until he moved on, and then she
      looked after him. And, oh, that look!

      On that look Euphemia had spent much anxious thought. It is not
      too much to say that it had hurt her with its dark, lingering
      softness, for all the world as though the woman wanted to drag
      him back, and unsay something she had been saying.

      Ah, well, she had had no time to go deeply into the matter just
      then, with that prunella silk on her hands; but she was “very
      _intriguée_”—very! She had just nodded to Mrs. Soames, to show
      her that she had seen; and, as she confided, in talking it over
      afterwards, to her chum Francie (Roger’s daughter), “Didn’t she
      look caught out just?...”

      James, most averse at the first blush to accepting any news
      confirmatory of his own poignant suspicions, took her up at once.

      “Oh” he said, “they’d be after wall-papers no doubt.”

      Euphemia smiled. “In the Groceries?” she said softly; and, taking
      “Passion and Paregoric” from the table, added: “And so you’ll
      lend me this, dear Auntie? Good-bye!” and went away.

      James left almost immediately after; he was late as it was.

      When he reached the office of Forsyte, Bustard and Forsyte, he
      found Soames, sitting in his revolving, chair, drawing up a
      defence. The latter greeted his father with a curt good-morning,
      and, taking an envelope from his pocket, said:

      “It may interest you to look through this.”

      James read as follows:

      “309D, SLOANE STREET,
      “_May_ 15,

      “DEAR FORSYTE,
          “The construction of your house being now completed, my
          duties as architect have come to an end. If I am to go on
          with the business of decoration, which at your request I
          undertook, I should like you to clearly understand that I
          must have a free hand.
          “You never come down without suggesting something that goes
          counter to my scheme. I have here three letters from you,
          each of which recommends an article I should never dream of
          putting in. I had your father here yesterday afternoon, who
          made further valuable suggestions.
          “Please make up your mind, therefore, whether you want me to
          decorate for you, or to retire which on the whole I should
          prefer to do.
          “But understand that, if I decorate, I decorate alone,
          without interference of any sort.
          “If I do the thing, I will do it thoroughly, but I must have
          a free hand.

      “Yours truly,
      “PHILIP BOSINNEY.”

      The exact and immediate cause of this letter cannot, of course,
      be told, though it is not improbable that Bosinney may have been
      moved by some sudden revolt against his position towards
      Soames—that eternal position of Art towards Property—which is so
      admirably summed up, on the back of the most indispensable of
      modern appliances, in a sentence comparable to the very finest in
      Tacitus:

      THOS. T. SORROW,
          Inventor.

      BERT M. PADLAND,
          Proprietor.

      “What are you going to say to him?” James asked.

      Soames did not even turn his head. “I haven’t made up my mind,”
      he said, and went on with his defence.

      A client of his, having put some buildings on a piece of ground
      that did not belong to him, had been suddenly and most
      irritatingly warned to take them off again. After carefully going
      into the facts, however, Soames had seen his way to advise that
      his client had what was known as a title by possession, and that,
      though undoubtedly the ground did not belong to him, he was
      entitled to keep it, and had better do so; and he was now
      following up this advice by taking steps to—as the sailors
      say—“make it so.”

      He had a distinct reputation for sound advice; people saying of
      him: “Go to young Forsyte—a long-headed fellow!” and he prized
      this reputation highly.

      His natural taciturnity was in his favour; nothing could be more
      calculated to give people, especially people with property
      (Soames had no other clients), the impression that he was a safe
      man. And he was safe. Tradition, habit, education, inherited
      aptitude, native caution, all joined to form a solid professional
      honesty, superior to temptation—from the very fact that it was
      built on an innate avoidance of risk. How could he fall, when his
      soul abhorred circumstances which render a fall possible—a man
      cannot fall off the floor!

      And those countless Forsytes, who, in the course of innumerable
      transactions concerned with property of all sorts (from wives to
      water rights), had occasion for the services of a safe man, found
      it both reposeful and profitable to confide in Soames. That
      slight superciliousness of his, combined with an air of mousing
      amongst precedents, was in his favour too—a man would not be
      supercilious unless he knew!

      He was really at the head of the business, for though James still
      came nearly every day to, see for himself, he did little now but
      sit in his chair, twist his legs, slightly confuse things already
      decided, and presently go away again, and the other partner,
      Bustard, was a poor thing, who did a great deal of work, but
      whose opinion was never taken.

      So Soames went steadily on with his defence. Yet it would be idle
      to say that his mind was at ease. He was suffering from a sense
      of impending trouble, that had haunted him for some time past. He
      tried to think it physical—a condition of his liver—but knew that
      it was not.

      He looked at his watch. In a quarter of an hour he was due at the
      General Meeting of the New Colliery Company—one of Uncle Jolyon’s
      concerns; he should see Uncle Jolyon there, and say something to
      him about Bosinney—he had not made up his mind what, but
      something—in any case he should not answer this letter until he
      had seen Uncle Jolyon. He got up and methodically put away the
      draft of his defence. Going into a dark little cupboard, he
      turned up the light, washed his hands with a piece of brown
      Windsor soap, and dried them on a roller towel. Then he brushed
      his hair, paying strict attention to the parting, turned down the
      light, took his hat, and saying he would be back at half-past
      two, stepped into the Poultry.

      It was not far to the Offices of the New Colliery Company in
      Ironmonger Lane, where, and not at the Cannon Street Hotel, in
      accordance with the more ambitious practice of other companies,
      the General Meeting was always held. Old Jolyon had from the
      first set his face against the Press. What business—he said—had
      the Public with his concerns!

      Soames arrived on the stroke of time, and took his seat alongside
      the Board, who, in a row, each Director behind his own ink-pot,
      faced their Shareholders.

      In the centre of this row old Jolyon, conspicuous in his black,
      tightly-buttoned frock-coat and his white moustaches, was leaning
      back with finger tips crossed on a copy of the Directors’ report
      and accounts.

      On his right hand, always a little larger than life, sat the
      Secretary, “Down-by-the-starn” Hemmings; an all-too-sad sadness
      beaming in his fine eyes; his iron-grey beard, in mourning like
      the rest of him, giving the feeling of an all-too-black tie
      behind it.

      The occasion indeed was a melancholy one, only six weeks having
      elapsed since that telegram had come from Scorrier, the mining
      expert, on a private mission to the Mines, informing them that
      Pippin, their Superintendent, had committed suicide in
      endeavouring, after his extraordinary two years’ silence, to
      write a letter to his Board. That letter was on the table now; it
      would be read to the Shareholders, who would of course be put
      into possession of all the facts.

      Hemmings had often said to Soames, standing with his coat-tails
      divided before the fireplace:

      “What our Shareholders don’t know about our affairs isn’t worth
      knowing. You may take that from me, Mr. Soames.”

      On one occasion, old Jolyon being present, Soames recollected a
      little unpleasantness. His uncle had looked up sharply and said:
      “Don’t talk nonsense, Hemmings! You mean that what they _do_ know
      isn’t worth knowing!” Old Jolyon detested humbug.

      Hemmings, angry-eyed, and wearing a smile like that of a trained
      poodle, had replied in an outburst of artificial applause: “Come,
      now, that’s good, sir—that’s very good. Your uncle _will_ have
      his joke!”

      The next time he had seen Soames he had taken the opportunity of
      saying to him: “The chairman’s getting very old!—I can’t get him
      to understand things; and he’s so wilful—but what can you expect,
      with a chin like his?”

      Soames had nodded.

      Everyone knew that Uncle Jolyon’s chin was a caution. He was
      looking worried to-day, in spite of his General Meeting look; he
      (Soames) should certainly speak to him about Bosinney.

      Beyond old Jolyon on the left was little Mr. Booker, and he, too,
      wore his General Meeting look, as though searching for some
      particularly tender shareholder. And next him was the deaf
      director, with a frown; and beyond the deaf director, again, was
      old Mr. Bleedham, very bland, and having an air of conscious
      virtue—as well he might, knowing that the brown-paper parcel he
      always brought to the Board-room was concealed behind his hat
      (one of that old-fashioned class, of flat-brimmed top-hats which
      go with very large bow ties, clean-shaven lips, fresh cheeks, and
      neat little, white whiskers).

      Soames always attended the General Meeting; it was considered
      better that he should do so, in case “anything should arise!” He
      glanced round with his close, supercilious air at the walls of
      the room, where hung plans of the mine and harbour, together with
      a large photograph of a shaft leading to a working which had
      proved quite remarkably unprofitable. This photograph—a witness
      to the eternal irony underlying commercial enterprise—still
      retained its position on the wall, an effigy of the directors’
      pet, but dead, lamb.

      And now old Jolyon rose, to present the report and accounts.

      Veiling under a Jove-like serenity that perpetual antagonism
      deep-seated in the bosom of a director towards his shareholders,
      he faced them calmly. Soames faced them too. He knew most of them
      by sight. There was old Scrubsole, a tar man, who always came, as
      Hemmings would say, “to make himself nasty,” a
      cantankerous-looking old fellow with a red face, a jowl, and an
      enormous low-crowned hat reposing on his knee. And the Rev. Mr.
      Boms, who always proposed a vote of thanks to the chairman, in
      which he invariably expressed the hope that the Board would not
      forget to elevate their employees, using the word with a double
      e, as being more vigorous and Anglo-Saxon (he had the strong
      Imperialistic tendencies of his cloth). It was his salutary
      custom to buttonhole a director afterwards, and ask him whether
      he thought the coming year would be good or bad; and, according
      to the trend of the answer, to buy or sell three shares within
      the ensuing fortnight.

      And there was that military man, Major O’Bally, who could not
      help speaking, if only to second the re-election of the auditor,
      and who sometimes caused serious consternation by taking
      toasts—proposals rather—out of the hands of persons who had been
      flattered with little slips of paper, entrusting the said
      proposals to their care.

      These made up the lot, together with four or five strong, silent
      shareholders, with whom Soames could sympathize—men of business,
      who liked to keep an eye on their affairs for themselves, without
      being fussy—good, solid men, who came to the City every day and
      went back in the evening to good, solid wives.

      Good, solid wives! There was something in that thought which
      roused the nameless uneasiness in Soames again.

      What should he say to his uncle? What answer should he make to
      this letter?

      . . . . “If any shareholder has any question to put, I shall be
      glad to answer it.” A soft thump. Old Jolyon had let the report
      and accounts fall, and stood twisting his tortoise-shell glasses
      between thumb and forefinger.

      The ghost of a smile appeared on Soames’s face. They had better
      hurry up with their questions! He well knew his uncle’s method
      (the ideal one) of at once saying: “I propose, then, that the
      report and accounts be adopted!” Never let them get their
      wind—shareholders were notoriously wasteful of time!

      A tall, white-bearded man, with a gaunt, dissatisfied face,
      arose:

      “I believe I am in order, Mr. Chairman, in raising a question on
      this figure of £5000 in the accounts. ‘To the widow and family’”
      (he looked sourly round), “‘of our late superintendent,’ who
      so—er—ill-advisedly (I say—ill-advisedly) committed suicide, at a
      time when his services were of the utmost value to this Company.
      You have stated that the agreement which he has so unfortunately
      cut short with his own hand was for a period of five years, of
      which one only had expired—I—”

      Old Jolyon made a gesture of impatience.

      “I believe I am in order, Mr. Chairman—I ask whether this amount
      paid, or proposed to be paid, by the Board to the er—deceased—is
      for services which might have been rendered to the Company—had he
      not committed suicide?”

      “It is in recognition of past services, which we all know—you as
      well as any of us—to have been of vital value.”

      “Then, sir, all I have to say is that the services being past,
      the amount is too much.”

      The shareholder sat down.

      Old Jolyon waited a second and said: “I now propose that the
      report and—”

      The shareholder rose again: “May I ask if the Board realizes that
      it is not their money which—I don’t hesitate to say that if it
      were their money....”

      A second shareholder, with a round, dogged face, whom Soames
      recognised as the late superintendent’s brother-in-law, got up
      and said warmly: “In my opinion, sir, the sum is not enough!”

      The Rev. Mr. Boms now rose to his feet. “If I may venture to
      express myself,” he said, “I should say that the fact of
      the—er—deceased having committed suicide should weigh very
      heavily—_very_ heavily with our worthy chairman. I have no doubt
      it has weighed with him, for—I say this for myself and I think
      for everyone present (hear, hear)—he enjoys our confidence in a
      high degree. We all desire, I should hope, to be charitable. But
      I feel sure” (he-looked severely at the late superintendent’s
      brother-in-law) “that he will in some way, by some written
      expression, or better perhaps by reducing the amount, record our
      grave disapproval that so promising and valuable a life should
      have been thus impiously removed from a sphere where both its own
      interests and—if I may say so—our interests so imperatively
      demanded its continuance. We should not—nay, we may
      not—countenance so grave a dereliction of all duty, both human
      and divine.”

      The reverend gentleman resumed his seat. The late
      superintendent’s brother-in-law again rose: “What I have said I
      stick to,” he said; “the amount is not enough!”

      The first shareholder struck in: “I challenge the legality of the
      payment. In my opinion this payment is not legal. The Company’s
      solicitor is present; I believe I am in order in asking him the
      question.”

      All eyes were now turned upon Soames. Something had arisen!

      He stood up, close-lipped and cold; his nerves inwardly
      fluttered, his attention tweaked away at last from contemplation
      of that cloud looming on the horizon of his mind.

      “The point,” he said in a low, thin voice, “is by no means clear.
      As there is no possibility of future consideration being
      received, it is doubtful whether the payment is strictly legal.
      If it is desired, the opinion of the court could be taken.”

      The superintendent’s brother-in-law frowned, and said in a
      meaning tone: “We have no doubt the opinion of the court could be
      taken. May I ask the name of the gentleman who has given us that
      striking piece of information? Mr. Soames Forsyte? Indeed!” He
      looked from Soames to old Jolyon in a pointed manner.

      A flush coloured Soames’s pale cheeks, but his superciliousness
      did not waver. Old Jolyon fixed his eyes on the speaker.

      “If,” he said, “the late superintendents brother-in-law has
      nothing more to say, I propose that the report and accounts....”

      At this moment, however, there rose one of those five silent,
      stolid shareholders, who had excited Soames’s sympathy. He said:

      “I deprecate the proposal altogether. We are expected to give
      charity to this man’s wife and children, who, you tell us, were
      dependent on him. They may have been; I do not care whether they
      were or not. I object to the whole thing on principle. It is high
      time a stand was made against this sentimental humanitarianism.
      The country is eaten up with it. I object to my money being paid
      to these people of whom I know nothing, who have done nothing to
      earn it. I object _in toto;_ it is not business. I now move that
      the report and accounts be put back, and amended by striking out
      the grant altogether.”

      Old Jolyon had remained standing while the strong, silent man was
      speaking. The speech awoke an echo in all hearts, voicing, as it
      did, the worship of strong men, the movement against generosity,
      which had at that time already commenced among the saner members
      of the community.

      The words “it is not business” had moved even the Board;
      privately everyone felt that indeed it was not. But they knew
      also the chairman’s domineering temper and tenacity. He, too, at
      heart must feel that it was not business; but he was committed to
      his own proposition. Would he go back upon it? It was thought to
      be unlikely.

      All waited with interest. Old Jolyon held up his hand;
      dark-rimmed glasses depending between his finger and thumb
      quivered slightly with a suggestion of menace.

      He addressed the strong, silent shareholder.

      “Knowing, as you do, the efforts of our late superintendent upon
      the occasion of the explosion at the mines, do you seriously wish
      me to put that amendment, sir?”

      “I do.”

      Old Jolyon put the amendment.

      “Does anyone second this?” he asked, looking calmly round.

      And it was then that Soames, looking at his uncle, felt the power
      of will that was in that old man. No one stirred. Looking
      straight into the eyes of the strong, silent shareholder, old
      Jolyon said:

      “I now move, ‘That the report and accounts for the year 1886 be
      received and adopted.’ You second that? Those in favour signify
      the same in the usual way. Contrary—no. Carried. The next
      business, gentlemen....”

      Soames smiled. Certainly Uncle Jolyon had a way with him!

      But now his attention relapsed upon Bosinney.

      Odd how that fellow haunted his thoughts, even in business hours.

      Irene’s visit to the house—but there was nothing in that, except
      that she might have told him; but then, again, she never did tell
      him anything. She was more silent, more touchy, every day. He
      wished to God the house were finished, and they were in it, away
      from London. Town did not suit her; her nerves were not strong
      enough. That nonsense of the separate room had cropped up again!

      The meeting was breaking up now. Underneath the photograph of the
      lost shaft Hemmings was buttonholed by the Rev. Mr. Boms. Little
      Mr. Booker, his bristling eyebrows wreathed in angry smiles, was
      having a parting turn-up with old Scrubsole. The two hated each
      other like poison. There was some matter of a tar-contract
      between them, little Mr. Booker having secured it from the Board
      for a nephew of his, over old Scrubsole’s head. Soames had heard
      that from Hemmings, who liked a gossip, more especially about his
      directors, except, indeed, old Jolyon, of whom he was afraid.

      Soames awaited his opportunity. The last shareholder was
      vanishing through the door, when he approached his uncle, who was
      putting on his hat.

      “Can I speak to you for a minute, Uncle Jolyon?”

      It is uncertain what Soames expected to get out of this
      interview.

      Apart from that somewhat mysterious awe in which Forsytes in
      general held old Jolyon, due to his philosophic twist, or
      perhaps—as Hemmings would doubtless have said—to his chin, there
      was, and always had been, a subtle antagonism between the younger
      man and the old. It had lurked under their dry manner of
      greeting, under their non-committal allusions to each other, and
      arose perhaps from old Jolyon’s perception of the quiet tenacity
      (“obstinacy,” he rather naturally called it) of the young man, of
      a secret doubt whether he could get his own way with him.

      Both these Forsytes, wide asunder as the poles in many respects,
      possessed in their different ways—to a greater degree than the
      rest of the family—that essential quality of tenacious and
      prudent insight into “affairs,” which is the highwater mark of
      their great class. Either of them, with a little luck and
      opportunity, was equal to a lofty career; either of them would
      have made a good financier, a great contractor, a statesman,
      though old Jolyon, in certain of his moods when under the
      influence of a cigar or of Nature—would have been capable of, not
      perhaps despising, but certainly of questioning, his own high
