announce that she was off to the library. “There’s a 
bit about the village in A History of Magic, wait ...” 

She opened the beaded bag and rummaged for a 
while, finally extracting her copy of their old school 
textbook, A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot, 
which she thumbed through until finding the page 
she wanted. 

“ ‘Upon the signature of the International Statute of 
Secrecy in 1689, wizards went into hiding for good. It 
was natural, perhaps, that they formed their own 
small communities within a community. Many small 
villages and hamlets attracted several magical 
families, who banded together for mutual support and 
protection. The villages of Tinworth in Cornwall, Upper 
Flagley in Yorkshire, and Ottery St. Catchpole on the 
south coast of England were notable homes to knots of 
Wizarding families who lived alongside tolerant and 
sometimes Confunded Muggles. Most celebrated of 
these half-magical dwelling places is, perhaps, 

Godric’s Hollow, the West Country village where the 
great wizard Godric Gryffindor was born, and where 
Bowman Wright, Wizarding smith, forged the first 
Golden Snitch. The graveyard is full of the names of 
ancient magical families, and this accounts, no doubt, 
for the stories of hauntings that have dogged the little 
church beside it for many centuries.’ 

Page | 359 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You and your parents aren’t mentioned,” Hermione 
said, closing the book, “because Professor Bagshot 
doesn’t cover anything later than the end of the 
nineteenth century. But you see? Godric’s Hollow, 
Godric Gryffindor, Gryffindor’s sword; don’t you think 
Dumbledore would have expected you to make the 
connection?” 

“Oh yeah ...” 

Harry did not want to admit that he had not been 
thinking about the sword at all when he suggested 
they go to Godric’s Hollow. For him, the lure of the 
village lay in his parents’ graves, the house where he 
had narrowly escaped death, and in the person of 
Bathilda Bagshot. 

“Remember what Muriel said?” he asked eventually. 
“Who?” 

“You know,” he hesitated: He did not want to say 
Ron’s name. “Ginny’s great-aunt. At the wedding. The 
one who said you had skinny ankles.” 

“Oh,” said Hermione. It was a sticky moment: Harry 
knew that she had sensed Ron’s name in the offing. 
He rushed on: 

“She said Bathilda Bagshot still lives in Godric’s 
Hollow.” 

“Bathilda Bagshot,” murmured Hermione, running 
her index finger over Bathilda’s embossed name on 
the front cover of A History of Magic. “Well, I suppose 



She gasped so dramatically that Harry’s insides 
turned over; he drew his wand, looking around at the 

Page | 360 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




entrance, half expecting to see a hand forcing its way 
through the entrance flap, but there was nothing 
there. 

“What?” he said, half angry, half relieved. “What did 
you do that for? I thought you’d seen a Death Eater 
unzipping the tent, at least — ” 

“Harry, what if Bathilda’ s got the sword? What if 
Dumbledore entrusted it to her?” 

Harry considered this possibility. Bathilda would be 
an extremely old woman by now, and according to 
Muriel, she was “gaga.” Was it likely that Dumbledore 
would have hidden the sword of Gryffindor with her? 

If so, Harry felt that Dumbledore had left a great deal 
to chance: Dumbledore had never revealed that he 
had replaced the sword with a fake, nor had he so 
much as mentioned a friendship with Bathilda. Now, 
however, was not the moment to cast doubt on 
Hermione’s theory, not when she was so surprisingly 
willing to fall in with Harry’s dearest wish. 

“Yeah, he might have done! So, are we going to go to 
Godric’s Hollow?” 

“Yes, but we’ll have to think it through carefully, 
Harry.” She was sitting up now, and Harry could tell 
that the prospect of having a plan again had lifted her 
mood as much as his. “We’ll need to practice 
Disapparating together under the Invisibility Cloak for 
a start, and perhaps Disillusionment Charms would 
be sensible too, unless you think we should go the 
whole hog and use Polyjuice Potion? In that case we’ll 
need to collect hair from somebody. I actually think 
we’d better do that, Harry, the thicker our disguises 
the better. ...” 



Page | 361 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry let her talk, nodding and agreeing whenever 
there was a pause, but his mind had left the 
conversation. For the first time since he had 
discovered that the sword in Gringotts was a fake, he 
felt excited. 

He was about to go home, about to return to the place 
where he had had a family. It was in Godric’s Hollow 
that, but for Voldemort, he would have grown up and 
spent every school holiday. He could have invited 
friends to his house. ... He might even have had 
brothers and sisters. ... It would have been his 
mother who had made his seventeenth birthday cake. 
The life he had lost had hardly ever seemed so real to 
him as at this moment, when he knew he was about 
to see the place where it had been taken from him. 
After Hermione had gone to bed that night, Harry 
quietly extracted his rucksack from Hermione ’s 
beaded bag, and from inside it, the photograph album 
Hagrid had given him so long ago. For the first time in 
months, he perused the old pictures of his parents, 
smiling and waving up at him from the images, which 
were all he had left of them now. 

Harry would gladly have set out for Godric’s Hollow 
the following day, but Hermione had other ideas. 
Convinced as she was that Voldemort would expect 
Harry to return to the scene of his parents’ deaths, 
she was determined that they would set off only after 
they had ensured that they had the best disguises 
possible. It was therefore a full week later — once 
they had surreptitiously obtained hairs from innocent 
Muggles who were Christmas shopping, and had 
practiced Apparating and Disapparating while 
underneath the Invisibility Cloak together — that 
Hermione agreed to make the journey. 

They were to Apparate to the village under cover of 
darkness, so it was late afternoon when they finally 

Page | 362 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




swallowed Polyjuice Potion, Harry transforming into a 
balding, middle-aged Muggle man, Hermione into his 
small and rather mousy wife. The beaded bag 
containing all of their possessions (apart from the 
Horcrux, which Harry was wearing around his neck) 
was tucked into an inside pocket of Hermione ’s 
buttoned-up coat. Harry lowered the Invisibility Cloak 
over them, then they turned into the suffocating 
darkness once again. 

Heart beating in his throat, Harry opened his eyes. 
They were standing hand in hand in a snowy lane 
under a dark blue sky, in which the night’s first stars 
were already glimmering feebly. Cottages stood on 
either side of the narrow road, Christmas decorations 
twinkling in their windows. A short way ahead of 
them, a glow of golden streetlights indicated the 
center of the village. 

“All this snow!” Hermione whispered beneath the 
cloak. “Why didn’t we think of snow? After all our 
precautions, we’ll leave prints! We’ll just have to get 
rid of them — you go in front, I’ll do it — ” 

Harry did not want to enter the village like a 
pantomime horse, trying to keep themselves 
concealed while magically covering their traces. 

“Let’s take off the Cloak,” said Harry, and when she 
looked frightened, “Oh, come on, we don’t look like us 
and there’s no one around.” 

He stowed the Cloak under his jacket and they made 
their way forward unhampered, the icy air stinging 
their faces as they passed more cottages: Any one of 
them might have been the one in which James and 
Lily had once lived or where Bathilda lived now. Harry 
gazed at the front doors, their snow-burdened roofs, 
and their front porches, wondering whether he 
Page | 363 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




remembered any of them, knowing deep inside that it 
was impossible, that he had been little more than a 
year old when he had left this place forever. He was 
not even sure whether he would be able to see the 
cottage at all; he did not know what happened when 
the subjects of a Fidelius Charm died. Then the little 
lane along which they were walking curved to the left 
and the heart of the village, a small square, was 
revealed to them. 

Strung all around with colored lights, there was what 
looked like a war memorial in the middle, partly 
obscured by a windblown Christmas tree. There were 
several shops, a post office, a pub, and a little church 
whose stained-glass windows were glowing jewel- 
bright across the square. 

The snow here had become impacted: It was hard and 
slippery where people had trodden on it all day. 
Villagers were crisscrossing in front of them, their 
figures briefly illuminated by streetlamps. They heard 
a snatch of laughter and pop music as the pub door 
opened and closed; then they heard a carol start up 
inside the little church. 

“Harry, I think it’s Christmas Eve!” said Hermione. 

“Is it?” 

He had lost track of the date; they had not seen a 
newspaper for weeks. 

“I’m sure it is,” said Hermione, her eyes upon the 
church. “They ... they’ll be in there, won’t they? Your 
mum and dad? I can see the graveyard behind it.” 

Harry felt a thrill of something that was beyond 
excitement, more like fear. Now that he was so near, 
he wondered whether he wanted to see after all. 

Page | 364 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Perhaps Hermione knew how he was feeling, because 
she reached for his hand and took the lead for the 
first time, pulling him forward. Halfway across the 
square, however, she stopped dead. 

“Harry, look!” 

She was pointing at the war memorial. As they had 
passed it, it had transformed. Instead of an obelisk 
covered in names, there was a statue of three people: 
a man with untidy hair and glasses, a woman with 
long hair and a kind, pretty face, and a baby boy 
sitting in his mother’s arms. Snow lay upon all their 
heads, like fluffy white caps. 

Harry drew closer, gazing up into his parents’ faces. 
He had never imagined that there would be a statue. 

. . . How strange it was to see himself represented in 
stone, a happy baby without a scar on his forehead. 



“C’mon,” said Harry, when he had looked his fill, and 
they turned again toward the church. As they crossed 
the road, he glanced over his shoulder; the statue had 
turned back into the war memorial. 

The singing grew louder as they approached the 
church. It made Harry’s throat constrict, it reminded 
him so forcefully of Hogwarts, of Peeves bellowing 
rude versions of carols from inside suits of armor, of 
the Great Hall’s twelve Christmas trees, of 
Dumbledore wearing a bonnet he had won in a 
cracker, of Ron in a hand-knitted sweater. . . . 

There was a kissing gate at the entrance to the 
graveyard. Hermione pushed it open as quietly as 
possible and they edged through it. On either side of 
the slippery path to the church doors, the snow lay 
deep and untouched. They moved off through the 
Page | 365 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




snow, carving deep trenches behind them as they 
walked around the building, keeping to the shadows 
beneath the brilliant windows. 

Behind the church, row upon row of snowy 
tombstones protruded from a blanket of pale blue 
that was flecked with dazzling red, gold, and green 
wherever the reflections from the stained glass hit the 
snow. Keeping his hand closed tightly on the wand in 
his jacket pocket, Harry moved toward the nearest 
grave. 

“Look at this, it’s an Abbott, could be some long-lost 
relation of Hannah’s!” 

“Keep your voice down,” Hermione begged him. 

They waded deeper and deeper into the graveyard, 
gouging dark tracks into the snow behind them, 
stooping to peer at the words on old headstones, 
every now and then squinting into the surrounding 
darkness to make absolutely sure that they were 
unaccompanied . 

“Harry, here!” 

Hermione was two rows of tombstones away; he had 
to wade back to her, his heart positively banging in 
his chest. 

“Is it — ?” 



“No, but look!” 

She pointed to the dark stone. Harry stooped down 
and saw, upon the frozen, lichen-spotted granite, the 
words KENDRA DUMBLEDORE and, a short way 
below her dates of birth and death, AND HER 
DAUGHTER ARIANA. There was also a quotation: 
Page | 366 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 



So Rita Skeeter and Muriel had got some of their facts 
right. The Dumbledore family had indeed lived here, 
and part of it had died here. 

Seeing the grave was worse than hearing about it. 
Harry could not help thinking that he and 
Dumbledore both had deep roots in this graveyard, 
and that Dumbledore ought to have told him so, yet 
he had never thought to share the connection. They 
could have visited the place together; for a moment 
Harry imagined coming here with Dumbledore, of 
what a bond that would have been, of how much it 
would have meant to him. But it seemed that to 
Dumbledore, the fact that their families lay side by 
side in the same graveyard had been an unimportant 
coincidence, irrelevant, perhaps, to the job he wanted 
Harry to do. 

Hermione was looking at Harry, and he was glad that 
his face was hidden in shadow. He read the words on 
the tombstone again. Where your treasure is, there 
will your heart be also. He did not understand what 
these words meant. Surely Dumbledore had chosen 
them, as the eldest member of the family once his 
mother had died. 

“Are you sure he never mentioned — ?” Hermione 
began. 

“No,” said Harry curtly, then, “let’s keep looking,” and 
he turned away, wishing he had not seen the stone: 

He did not want his excited trepidation tainted with 
resentment. 

“Here!” cried Hermione again a few moments later 
from out of the darkness. “Oh no, sorry! I thought it 
said Potter.” 

Page | 367 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




She was rubbing at a crumbling, mossy stone, gazing 
down at it, a little frown on her face. 



“Harry, come back a moment.” 

He did not want to be sidetracked again, and only 
grudgingly made his way back through the snow 
toward her. 

“What?” 

“Look at this!” 

The grave was extremely old, weathered so that Harry 
could hardly make out the name. Hermione showed 
him the symbol beneath it. 

“Harry, that’s the mark in the book!” 

He peered at the place she indicated: The stone was 
so worn that it was hard to make out what was 
engraved there, though there did seem to be a 
triangular mark beneath the nearly illegible name. 

“Yeah ... it could be. ...” 

Hermione lit her wand and pointed it at the name on 
the headstone. 

“It says Ig — Ignotus, I think. ...” 

“I’m going to keep looking for my parents, all right?” 
Harry told her, a slight edge to his voice, and he set 
off again, leaving her crouched beside the old grave. 

Every now and then he recognized a surname that, 
like Abbott, he had met at Hogwarts. Sometimes there 
were several generations of the same Wizarding family 
represented in the graveyard: Harry could tell from 

Page | 368 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the dates that it had either died out, or the current 
members had moved away from Godric’s Hollow. 
Deeper and deeper amongst the graves he went, and 
every time he reached a new headstone he felt a little 
lurch of apprehension and anticipation. 

The darkness and the silence seemed to become, all of 
a sudden, much deeper. Harry looked around, 
worried, thinking of dementors, then realized that the 
carols had finished, that the chatter and flurry of 
churchgoers were fading away as they made their way 
back into the square. Somebody inside the church 
had just turned off the lights. 

Then Hermione’s voice came out of the blackness for 
the third time, sharp and clear from a few yards 
away. 

“Harry, they’re here ... right here.” 

And he knew by her tone that it was his mother and 
father this time: He moved toward her, feeling as if 
something heavy were pressing on his chest, the 
same sensation he had had right after Dumbledore 
had died, a grief that had actually weighed on his 
heart and lungs. 

The headstone was only two rows behind Kendra and 
Ariana’s. It was made of white marble, just like 
Dumbledore’s tomb, and this made it easy to read, as 
it seemed to shine in the dark. Harry did not need to 
kneel or even approach very close to it to make out 
the words engraved upon it. 

JAMES POTTER 
BORN 27 MARCH 1960 

LILY POTTER 

BORN 30 JANUARY 1960 

Page | 369 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




DIED 31 OCTOBER 1981 



The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. 

Harry read the words slowly, as though he would 
have only one chance to take in their meaning, and 
he read the last of them aloud. 

“ The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death’...” 

A horrible thought came to him, and with it a kind of 
panic. “Isn’t that a Death Eater idea? Why is that 
there?” 

“It doesn’t mean defeating death in the way the Death 
Eaters mean it, Harry,” said Hermione, her voice 
gentle. “It means ... you know ... living beyond death. 
Living after death.” 

But they were not living, thought Harry: They were 
gone. The empty words could not disguise the fact 
that his parents’ moldering remains lay beneath snow 
and stone, indifferent, unknowing. And tears came 
before he could stop them, boiling hot then instantly 
freezing on his face, and what was the point in wiping 
them off or pretending? He let them fall, his lips 
pressed hard together, looking down at the thick 
snow hiding from his eyes the place where the last of 
Lily and James lay, bones now, surely, or dust, not 
knowing or caring that their living son stood so near, 
his heart still beating, alive because of their sacrifice 
and close to wishing, at this moment, that he was 
sleeping under the snow with them. 

Hermione had taken his hand again and was gripping 
it tightly. He could not look at her, but returned the 
pressure, now taking deep, sharp gulps of the night 
air, trying to steady himself, trying to regain control. 
He should have brought something to give them, and 
he had not thought of it, and every plant in the 
Page | 370 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




graveyard was leafless and frozen. But Hermione 
raised her wand, moved it in a circle through the air, 
and a wreath of Christmas roses blossomed before 
them. Harry caught it and laid it on his parents’ 
grave. 

As soon as he stood up he wanted to leave: He did not 
think he could stand another moment there. He put 
his arm around Hermione’s shoulders, and she put 
hers around his waist, and they turned in silence and 
walked away through the snow, past Dumbledore’s 
mother and sister, back toward the dark church and 
the out-of-sight kissing gate. 



Page | 371 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






BATHILDA’S SECRET 

“Harry, stop.” 

“What’s wrong?” 

They had only just reached the grave of the unknown 
Abbott. 

“There’s someone there. Someone watching us. I can 
tell. There, over by the bushes.” 

They stood quite still, holding on to each other, gazing 
at the dense black boundary of the graveyard. Harry 
could not see anything. 

“Are you sure?” 

“I saw something move, I could have sworn I did. ...” 
She broke from him to free her wand arm. 

“We look like Muggles,” Harry pointed out. 



Page | 372 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“Muggles who ’ve just been laying flowers on your 
parents’ grave! Harry, I’m sure there’s someone over 
there!” 



Harry thought of A History of Magic ; the graveyard 
was supposed to be haunted: what if — ? But then he 
heard a rustle and saw a little eddy of dislodged snow 
in the bush to which Hermione had pointed. Ghosts 
could not move snow. 

“It’s a cat,” said Harry, after a second or two, “or a 
bird. If it was a Death Eater we’d be dead by now. But 
let’s get out of here, and we can put the Cloak back 
on.” 

They glanced back repeatedly as they made their way 
out of the graveyard. Harry, who did not feel as 
sanguine as he had pretended when reassuring 
Hermione, was glad to reach the gate and the slippery 
pavement. They pulled the Invisibility Cloak back over 
themselves. The pub was fuller than before: Many 
voices inside it were now singing the carol that they 
had heard as they approached the church. For a 
moment Harry considered suggesting they take refuge 
inside it, but before he could say anything Hermione 
murmured, “Let’s go this way,” and pulled him down 
the dark street leading out of the village in the 
opposite direction from which they had entered. Harry 
could make out the point where the cottages ended 
and the lane turned into open country again. They 
walked as quickly as they dared, past more windows 
sparkling with multicolored lights, the outlines of 
Christmas trees dark through the curtains. 

“How are we going to find Bathilda’s house?” asked 
Hermione, who was shivering a little and kept 
glancing back over her shoulder. “Harry? What do you 
think? Harry?” 

Page | 373 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




She tugged at his arm, but Harry was not paying 
attention. He was looking toward the dark mass that 
stood at the very end of this row of houses. Next 
moment he had sped up, dragging Hermione along 
with him; she slipped a little on the ice. 

“Harry — ” 

“Look. ... Look at it, Hermione. ...” 

“I don’t ... oh!” 

He could see it; the Fidelius Charm must have died 
with James and Lily. The hedge had grown wild in the 
sixteen years since Hagrid had taken Harry from the 
rubble that lay scattered amongst the waist-high 
grass. Most of the cottage was still standing, though 
entirely covered in dark ivy and snow, but the right 
side of the top floor had been blown apart; that, Harry 
was sure, was where the curse had backfired. He and 
Hermione stood at the gate, gazing up at the wreck of 
what must once have been a cottage just like those 
that flanked it. 

“I wonder why nobody’s ever rebuilt it?” whispered 
Hermione. 

“Maybe you can’t rebuild it?” Harry replied. “Maybe 
it’s like the injuries from Dark Magic and you can’t 
repair the damage?” 

He slipped a hand from beneath the Cloak and 
grasped the snowy and thickly rusted gate, not 
wishing to open it, but simply to hold some part of the 
house. 

“You’re not going to go inside? It looks unsafe, it 
might — oh, Harry, look!” 



Page | 374 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




His touch on the gate seemed to have done it. A sign 
had risen out of the ground in front of them, up 
through the tangles of nettles and weeds, like some 
bizarre, fast-growing flower, and in golden letters 
upon the wood it said: 



On this spot, on the night of 31 October 1 981, Lily and 
James Potter lost their lives. Their son, Harry, remains 
the only wizard ever to have survived the Killing Curse. 
This house, invisible to Muggles, has been left in its 
ruined state as a monument to the Potters and as a 
reminder of the violence that tore apart their family. 

And all around these neatly lettered words, scribbles 
had been added by other witches and wizards who 
had come to see the place where the Boy Who Lived 
had escaped. Some had merely signed their names in 
Everlasting Ink; others had carved their initials into 
the wood, still others had left messages. The most 
recent of these, shining brightly over sixteen years’ 
worth of magical graffiti, all said similar things. 

Good luck, Harry, wherever you are. 

If you read this, Harry, we’re all behind you! 

Long live Harry Potter. 

“They shouldn’t have written on the sign!” said 
Hermione, indignant. 

But Harry beamed at her. 

“It’s brilliant. I’m glad they did. I ...” 

He broke off. A heavily muffled figure was hobbling up 
the lane toward them, silhouetted by the bright lights 

Page | 375 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




in the distant square. Harry thought, though it was 
hard to judge, that the figure was a woman. She was 
moving slowly, possibly frightened of slipping on the 
snowy ground. Her stoop, her stoutness, her shuffling 
gait all gave an impression of extreme age. They 
watched in silence as she drew nearer. Harry was 
waiting to see whether she would turn into any of the 
cottages she was passing, but he knew instinctively 
that she would not. At last she came to a halt a few 
yards from them and simply stood there in the middle 
of the frozen road, facing them. 

He did not need Hermione’s pinch to his arm. There 
was next to no chance that this woman was a Muggle: 
She was standing there gazing at a house that ought 
to have been completely invisible to her, if she was 
not a witch. Even assuming that she was a witch, 
however, it was odd behavior to come out on a night 
this cold, simply to look at an old ruin. By all the 
rules of normal magic, meanwhile, she ought not to 
be able to see Hermione and him at all. Nevertheless, 
Harry had the strangest feeling that she knew that 
they were there, and also who they were. Just as he 
had reached this uneasy conclusion, she raised a 
gloved hand and beckoned. 

Hermione moved closer to him under the Cloak, her 
arm pressed against his. 

“How does she know?” 

He shook his head. The woman beckoned again, more 
vigorously. Harry could think of many reasons not to 
obey the summons, and yet his suspicions about her 
identity were growing stronger every moment that 
they stood facing each other in the deserted street. 

Was it possible that she had been waiting for them all 
these long months? That Dumbledore had told her to 

Page | 376 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




wait, and that Harry would come in the end? Was it 
not likely that it was she who had moved in the 
shadows in the graveyard and had followed them to 
this spot? Even her ability to sense them suggested 
some Dumbledore-ish power that he had never 
encountered before. 

Finally Harry spoke, causing Hermione to gasp and 
jump. 

“Are you Bathilda?” 

The muffled figure nodded and beckoned again. 

Beneath the Cloak Harry and Hermione looked at 
each other. Harry raised his eyebrows; Hermione gave 
a tiny, nervous nod. 

They stepped toward the woman and, at once, she 
turned and hobbled off back the way they had come. 
Leading them past several houses, she turned in at a 
gate. They followed her up the front path through a 
garden nearly as overgrown as the one they had just 
left. She fumbled for a moment with a key at the front 
door, then opened it and stepped back to let them 
pass. 

She smelled bad, or perhaps it was her house: Harry 
wrinkled his nose as they sidled past her and pulled 
off the Cloak. Now that he was beside her, he realized 
how tiny she was; bowed down with age, she came 
barely level with his chest. She closed the door behind 
them, her knuckles blue and mottled against the 
peeling paint, then turned and peered into Harry’s 
face. Her eyes were thick with cataracts and sunken 
into folds of transparent skin, and her whole face was 
dotted with broken veins and liver spots. He 
wondered whether she could make him out at all; 



Page | 377 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




even if she could, it was the balding Muggle whose 
identity he had stolen that she would see. 

The odor of old age, of dust, of unwashed clothes and 
stale food intensified as she unwound a moth-eaten 
black shawl, revealing a head of scant white hair 
through which the scalp showed clearly. 

“Bathilda?” Harry repeated. 

She nodded again. Harry became aware of the locket 
against his skin; the thing inside it that sometimes 
ticked or beat had woken; he could feel it pulsing 
through the cold gold. Did it know, could it sense, 
that the thing that would destroy it was near? 

Bathilda shuffled past them, pushing Hermione aside 
as though she had not seen her, and vanished into 
what seemed to be a sitting room. 

“Harry, I’m not sure about this,” breathed Hermione. 

“Look at the size of her; I think we could overpower 
her if we had to,” said Harry. “Listen, I should have 
told you, I knew she wasn’t all there. Muriel called her 
‘gaga.’ ” 

“Come!” called Bathilda from the next room. 

Hermione jumped and clutched Harry’s arm. 

“It’s okay,” said Harry reassuringly, and he led the 
way into the sitting room. 

Bathilda was tottering around the place lighting 
candles, but it was still very dark, not to mention 
extremely dirty. Thick dust crunched beneath their 
feet, and Harry’s nose detected, underneath the dank 
and mildewed smell, something worse, like meat gone 
Page | 378 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




bad. He wondered when was the last time anyone had 
been inside Bathilda’s house to check whether she 
was coping. She seemed to have forgotten that she 
could do magic, too, for she lit the candles clumsily 
by hand, her trailing lace cuff in constant danger of 
catching fire. 

“Let me do that,” offered Harry, and he took the 
matches from her. She stood watching him as he 
finished lighting the candle stubs that stood on 
saucers around the room, perched precariously on 
stacks of books and on side tables crammed with 
cracked and moldy cups. 

The last surface on which Harry spotted a candle was 
a bow-fronted chest of drawers on which there stood 
a large number of photographs. When the flame 
danced into life, its reflection wavered on their dusty 
glass and silver. He saw a few tiny movements from 
the pictures. As Bathilda fumbled with logs for the 
fire, he muttered “ Tergeo ”: The dust vanished from 
the photographs, and he saw at once that half a 
dozen were missing from the largest and most ornate 
frames. He wondered whether Bathilda or somebody 
else had removed them. Then the sight of a 
photograph near the back of the collection caught his 
eye, and he snatched it up. 

It was the golden-haired, merry-faced thief, the young 
man who had perched on Gregorovitch’s windowsill, 
smiling lazily up at Harry out of the silver frame. And 
it came to Harry instantly where he had seen the boy 
before: in The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore, arm 
in arm with the teenage Dumbledore, and that must 
be where all the missing photographs were: in Rita’s 
book. 

“Mrs. — Miss — Bagshot?” he said, and his voice 
shook slightly. “Who is this?” 

Page | 379 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Bathilda was standing in the middle of the room 
watching Hermione light the fire for her. 

“Miss Bagshot?” Harry repeated, and he advanced 
with the picture in his hands as the flames burst into 
life in the fireplace. Bathilda looked up at his voice, 
and the Horcrux beat faster upon his chest. 

“Who is this person?” Harry asked her, pushing the 
picture forward. 

She peered at it solemnly, then up at Harry. 

“Do you know who this is?” he repeated in a much 
slower and louder voice than usual. “This man? Do 
you know him? What’s he called?” 

Bathilda merely looked vague. Harry felt an awful 
frustration. How had Rita Skeeter unlocked Bathilda’s 
memories? 

“Who is this man?” he repeated loudly. 

“Harry, what are you doing?” asked Hermione. 

“This picture, Hermione, it’s the thief, the thief who 
stole from Gregorovitch! Please!” he said to Bathilda. 
“Who is this?” 

But she only stared at him. 

“Why did you ask us to come with you, Mrs. — Miss 
— Bagshot?” asked Hermione, raising her own voice. 
“Was there something you wanted to tell us?” 

Giving no sign that she had heard Hermione, Bathilda 
now shuffled a few steps closer to Harry. With a little 
jerk of her head she looked back into the hall. 



Page | 380 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You want us to leave?” he asked. 



She repeated the gesture, this time pointing firstly at 
him, then at herself, then at the ceiling. 

“Oh, right ... Hermione, I think she wants me to go 
upstairs with her.” 

“All right,” said Hermione, “let’s go.” 

But when Hermione moved, Bathilda shook her head 
with surprising vigor, once more pointing first at 
Harry, then to herself. 

“She wants me to go with her, alone.” 

“Why?” asked Hermione, and her voice rang out sharp 
and clear in the candlelit room; the old lady shook her 
head a little at the loud noise. 

“Maybe Dumbledore told her to give the sword to me, 
and only to me?” 

“Do you really think she knows who you are?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, looking down into the milky eyes 
fixed upon his own, “I think she does.” 

“Well, okay then, but be quick, Harry.” 

“Lead the way,” Harry told Bathilda. 

She seemed to understand, because she shuffled 
around him toward the door. Harry glanced back at 
Hermione with a reassuring smile, but he was not 
sure she had seen it; she stood hugging herself in the 
midst of the candlelit squalor, looking toward the 
bookcase. As Harry walked out of the room, unseen 
by both Hermione and Bathilda, he slipped the silver- 

P a g e | 381 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 


