

Page | 471Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




dangerous in some way, and it doesn’t look as though 
they are...” 

She, Harry, and Ron watched George projectile-vomit 
into the bucket, gulp down the rest of the chew, and 
straighten up, beaming with his arms wide to 
protracted applause. 

“You know, I don’t get why Fred and George only got 
three O.W.L.s each,” said Harry, watching as Fred, 
George, and Lee collected gold from the eager crowd. 
“They really know their stuff...” 

“Oh, they only know flashy stuff that’s no real use to 
anyone,” said Hermione disparagingly. 

“No real use?” said Ron in a strained voice. 

“Hermione, they’ve got about twenty-six Galleons 
already...” 

It was a long while before the crowd around the 
Weasleys dispersed, and then Fred, Lee, and George 
sat up counting their takings even longer, so that it 
was well past midnight when Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione finally had the common room to themselves 
again. At long last, Fred closed the doorway to the 
boys’ dormitories behind him, rattling his box of 
Galleons ostentatiously so that Hermione scowled. 
Harry, who was making very little progress with his 
Potions essay, decided to give it up for the night. As 
he put his books away, Ron, who was dozing lightly in 
an armchair, gave a muffled grunt, awoke, looked 
blearily into the fire and said, “Sirius!” 

Harry whipped around; Sirius’s untidy dark head was 
sitting in the fire again. 

“Hi,” he said, grinning. 



Page | 472Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Hi,” chorused Harry, Ron, and Hermione, all three 
kneeling down upon the hearthrug. Crookshanks 
purred loudly and approached the fire, trying, despite 
the heat, to put his face close to Sirius’s. 

“How’re things?” said Sirius. 

“Not that good,” said Harry, as Hermione pulled 
Crookshanks back to stop him singeing his whiskers. 
“The Ministry’s forced through another decree, which 
means we’re not allowed to have Quidditch teams — ” 

“ — or secret Defense Against the Dark Arts groups?” 
said Sirius. 

There was a short pause. 

“How did you know about that?” Harry demanded. 

“You want to choose your meeting places more 
carefully,” said Sirius, grinning still more broadly. 
“The Hog’s Head, I ask you ...” 

“Well, it was better than the Three Broomsticks!” said 
Hermione defensively. “That’s always packed with 
people — ” 

“ — which means you’d have been harder to overhear,” 
said Sirius. “You’ve got a lot to learn, Hermione.” 

“Who overheard us?” Harry demanded. 

“Mundungus, of course,” said Sirius, and when they 
all looked puzzled he laughed. “He was the witch 
under the veil.” 

“That was Mundungus?” Harry said, stunned. “What 
was he doing in the Hog’s Head?” 



Page | 473Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What do you think he was doing?” said Sirius 
impatiently. “Keeping an eye on you, of course.” 

“I’m still being followed?” asked Harry angrily. 

“Yeah, you are,” said Sirius, “and just as well, isn’t it, 
if the first thing you’re going to do on your weekend 
off is organize an illegal defense group.” 

But he looked neither angry nor worried; on the 
contrary, he was looking at Harry with distinct pride. 

“Why was Dung hiding from us?” asked Ron, 
sounding disappointed. “We’d’ve liked to’ve seen him.” 

“He was banned from the Hog’s Head twenty years 
ago,” said Sirius, “and that barman’s got a long 
memory. We lost Moody’s spare Invisibility Cloak 
when Sturgis was arrested, so Dung’s been dressing 
as a witch a lot lately... Anyway ... First of all, Ron — 
I’ve sworn to pass on a message from your mother.” 

“Oh yeah?” said Ron, sounding apprehensive. 

“She says on no account whatsoever are you to take 
part in an illegal secret Defense Against the Dark Arts 
group. She says you’ll be expelled for sure and your 
future will be ruined. She says there will be plenty of 
time to learn how to defend yourself later and that 
you are too young to be worrying about that right 
now. She also” — Sirius’s eyes turned to the other two 
— “advises Harry and Hermione not to proceed with 
the group, though she accepts that she has no 
authority over either of them and simply begs them to 
remember that she has their best interests at heart. 
She would have written all this to you, but if the owl 
had been intercepted you’d all have been in real 
trouble, and she can’t say it for herself because she’s 
on duty tonight.” 

Page | 474Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“On duty doing what?” said Ron quickly. 

“Never you mind, just stuff for the Order,” said Sirius. 
“So it’s fallen to me to be the messenger and make 
sure you tell her I passed it all on, because I don’t 
think she trusts me to.” 

There was another pause in which Crookshanks, 
mewing, attempted to paw Sirius’s head, and Ron 
fiddled with a hole in the hearthrug. 

“So you want me to say I’m not going to take part in 
the defense group?” he muttered finally. 

“Me? Certainly not!” said Sirius, looking surprised. “I 
think it’s an excellent idea!” 

“You do?” said Harry, his heart lifting. 

“Of course I do!” said Sirius. “D’you think your father 
and I would’ve lain down and taken orders from an 
old hag like Umbridge?” 

“But — last term all you did was tell me to be careful 
and not take risks — ” 

“Last year all the evidence was that someone inside 
Hogwarts was trying to kill you, Harry!” said Sirius 
impatiently. “This year we know that there’s someone 
outside Hogwarts who’d like to kill us all, so I think 
learning to defend yourselves properly is a very good 
idea!” 

“And if we do get expelled?” Hermione asked, a 
quizzical look on her face. 

“Hermione, this whole thing was your idea!” said 
Harry, staring at her. 



Page | 475Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I know it was... I just wondered what Sirius 
thought,” she said, shrugging. 

“Well, better expelled and able to defend yourselves 
than sitting safely in school without a clue,” said 
Sirius. 

“Hear, hear,” said Harry and Ron enthusiastically. 

“So,” said Sirius, “how are you organizing this group? 
Where are you meeting?” 

“Well, that’s a bit of a problem now,” said Harry. 
“Dunno where we’re going to be able to go...” 

“How about the Shrieking Shack?” suggested Sirius. 

“Hey, that’s an idea!” said Ron excitedly, but 
Hermione made a skeptical noise and all three of 
them looked at her, Sirius’s head turning in the 
flames. 

“Well, Sirius, it’s just that there were only four of you 
meeting in the Shrieking Shack when you were at 
school,” said Hermione, “and all of you could 
transform into animals and I suppose you could all 
have squeezed under a single Invisibility Cloak if 
you’d wanted to. But there are twenty-eight of us and 
none of us is an Animagus, so we wouldn’t need so 
much an Invisibility Cloak as an Invisibility Marquee 



“Fair point,” said Sirius, looking slightly crestfallen. 
“Well, I’m sure you’ll come up with somewhere... 
There used to be a pretty roomy secret passageway 
behind that big mirror on the fourth floor, you might 
have enough space to practice jinxes in there — ” 



Page | 476Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Fred and George told me it’s blocked,” said Harry, 
shaking his head. “Caved in or something.” 

“Oh ...” said Sirius, frowning. “Well, 111 have a think 
and get back to — ” 

He broke off. His face was suddenly tense, alarmed. 
He turned sideways, apparently looking into the solid 
brick wall of the fireplace. 

“Sirius?” said Harry anxiously. 

But he had vanished. Harry gaped at the flames for a 
moment, then turned to look at Ron and Hermione. 

“Why did he — ?” 

Hermione gave a horrified gasp and leapt to her feet, 
still staring at the fire. 

A hand had appeared amongst the flames, groping as 
though to catch hold of something; a stubby, short- 
fingered hand covered in ugly old-fashioned rings... 

The three of them ran for it; at the door of the boys’ 
dormitory Harry looked back. Umbridge’s hand was 
still making snatching movements amongst the 
flames, as though she knew exactly where Sirius’s 
hair had been moments before and was determined to 
seize it. 



Page | 477Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






DUMBLEDORE’S ARMY 

“Umbridge has been reading your mail, Harry. There’s 
no other explanation.” 

“You think Umbridge attacked Hedwig?” he said, 
outraged. 

“I’m almost certain of it,” said Hermione grimly. 

“Watch your frog, it’s escaping.” 

Harry pointed his wand at the bullfrog that had been 
hopping hopefully toward the other side of the table 
— “Acciol ” — and it zoomed gloomily back into his 
hand. 

Charms was always one of the best lessons in which 
to enjoy a private chat: There was generally so much 
movement and activity that the danger of being 
overheard was very slight. Today, with the room full of 
croaking bullfrogs and cawing ravens, and with a 
heavy downpour of rain clattering and pounding 
against the classroom windows, Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione ’s whispered discussion about how 
Page | 478Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Umbridge had nearly caught Sirius went quite 
unnoticed. 

“I’ve been suspecting this ever since Filch accused 
you of ordering Dungbombs, because it seemed such 
a stupid lie,” Hermione whispered. “I mean, once your 
letter had been read, it would have been quite clear 
you weren’t ordering them, so you wouldn’t have been 
in trouble at all — it’s a bit of a feeble joke, isn’t it? 
But then I thought, what if somebody just wanted an 
excuse to read your mail? Well then, it would be a 
perfect way for Umbridge to manage it — tip off Filch, 
let him do the dirty work and confiscate the letter, 
then either find a way of stealing it from him or else 
demand to see it — I don’t think Filch would object, 
when’s he ever stuck up for a student’s rights? Harry, 
you’re squashing your frog.” 

Harry looked down; he was indeed squeezing his 
bullfrog so tightly its eyes were popping; he replaced 
it hastily upon the desk. 

“It was a very, very close call last night,” said 
Hermione. “I just wonder if Umbridge knows how 
close it was. Silenciol” 

The bullfrog on which she was practicing her 
Silencing Charm was struck dumb mid-croak and 
glared at her reproachfully. 

“If she’d caught Snuffles ...” 

Harry finished the sentence for her. 

“He’d probably be back in Azkaban this morning.” He 
waved his wand without really concentrating; his 
bullfrog swelled like a green balloon and emitted a 
high-pitched whistle. 



Page | 479Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Silenciol” said Hermione hastily, pointing her wand 
at Harry’s frog, which deflated silently before them. 
“Well, he mustn’t do it again, that’s all. I just don’t 
know how we’re going to let him know. We can’t send 
him an owl.” 

“I don’t reckon he’ll risk it again,” said Ron. “He’s not 
stupid, he knows she nearly got him. Silenciol” 

The large and ugly raven in front of him let out a 
derisive caw. 

“ Silenciol SILENCIO” 

The raven cawed more loudly. 

“It’s the way you’re moving your wand,” said 
Hermione, watching Ron critically. “You don’t want to 
wave it, it’s more a sharp jab.” 

“Ravens are harder than frogs,” said Ron testily. 

“Fine, let’s swap,” said Hermione, seizing Ron’s raven 
and replacing it with her own fat bullfrog. “Silencio\” 
The raven continued to open and close its sharp beak, 
but no sound came out. 

“Very good, Miss Granger!” said Professor Flitwick’s 
squeaky little voice and Harry, Ron, and Hermione all 
jumped. “Now, let me see you try, Mr. Weasley!” 

“Wha — ? Oh — oh, right,” said Ron, very flustered. 
“Er — Silenciol” 

He jabbed at the bullfrog so hard that he poked it in 
the eye; the frog gave a deafening croak and leapt off 
the desk. 



Page | 480Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It came as no surprise to any of them that Harry and 
Ron were given additional practice of the Silencing 
Charm for homework. 

They were allowed to remain inside over break due to 
the downpour outside. They found seats in a noisy 
and overcrowded classroom on the first floor in which 
Peeves was floating dreamily up near the chandelier, 
occasionally blowing an ink pellet at the top of 
somebody’s head. They had barely sat down when 
Angelina came struggling toward them through the 
groups of gossiping students. 

“I’ve got permission!” she said. “To re-form the 
Quidditch team!” 

“Excellent.” said Ron and Harry together. 

“Yeah,” said Angelina, beaming. “I went to 
McGonagall and I think she might have appealed to 
Dumbledore — anyway, Umbridge had to give in. Ha! 
So I want you down at the pitch at seven o’clock 
tonight, all right, because we’ve got to make up time, 
you realize we’re only three weeks away from our first 
match?” 

She squeezed away from them, narrowly dodged an 
ink pellet from Peeves, which hit a nearby first year 
instead, and vanished from sight. 

Ron’s smile slipped slightly as he looked out of the 
window, which was now opaque with hammering 
rain. 

“Hope this clears up ... What’s up with you, 
Hermione?” 



Page | 481Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She too was gazing at the window, but not as though 
she really saw it. Her eyes were unfocused and there 
was a frown on her face. 

“Just thinking ...” she said, still frowning at the rain- 
washed window. 

“About Siri . . . Snuffles?” said Harry. 

“No ... not exactly ...” said Hermione slowly. “More ... 
wondering ... I suppose we’re doing the right thing ... 

I think ... aren’t we? 

Harry and Ron looked at each other. 

“Well, that clears that up,” said Ron. “It would’ve been 
really annoying if you hadn’t explained yourself 
properly.” 

Hermione looked at him as though she had only just 
realized he was there. 

“I was just wondering,” she said, her voice stronger 
now, “whether we’re doing the right thing, starting 
this Defense Against the Dark Arts group.” 

“What!” said Harry and Ron together. 

“Hermione, it was your idea in the first place!” said 
Ron indignantly. 

“I know,” said Hermione, twisting her fingers together. 
“But after talking to Snuffles ...” 

“But he’s all for it!” said Harry. 

“Yes,” said Hermione, staring at the window again. 
“Yes, that’s what made me think maybe it wasn’t a 
good idea after all...” 

Page | 482Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Peeves floated over them on his stomach, peashooter 
at the ready; automatically all three of them lifted 
their bags to cover their heads until he had passed. 

“Let’s get this straight,” said Harry angrily, as they 
put their bags back on the floor, “Sirius agrees with 
us, so you don’t think we should do it anymore?” 

Hermione looked tense and rather miserable. Now 
staring at her own hands she said, “Do you honestly 
trust his judgment?” 

“Yes, I do!” said Harry at once. “He’s always given us 
great advice!” 

An ink pellet whizzed past them, striking Katie Bell 
squarely in the ear. Hermione watched Katie leap to 
her feet and start throwing things at Peeves; it was a 
few moments before Hermione spoke again and it 
sounded as though she was choosing her words very 
carefully. 

“You don’t think he has become ... sort of ... reckless 
... since he’s been cooped up in Grimmauld Place? 

You don’t think he’s ... kind of ... living through us?” 

“What d’you mean, ‘living through us’?” Harry 
retorted. 

“I mean ... well, I think he’d love to be forming secret 
defense societies right under the nose of someone 
from the Ministry... I think he’s really frustrated at 
how little he can do where he is ... so I think he’s 
keen to kind of ... egg us on.” 

Ron looked utterly perplexed. 

“Sirius is right,” he said, “you do sound just like my 
mother.” 

Page | 483Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione bit her lip and did not answer. The bell 
rang just as Peeves swooped down upon Katie and 
emptied an entire ink bottle over her head. 

The weather did not improve as the day wore on, so 
that at seven o’clock that evening, when Harry and 
Ron went down to the Quidditch pitch for practice, 
they were soaked through within minutes, their feet 
slipping and sliding on the sodden grass. The sky was 
a deep, thundery gray and it was a relief to gain the 
warmth and light of the changing rooms, even if they 
knew the respite was only temporary. They found 
Fred and George debating whether to use one of their 
own Skiving Snackboxes to get out of flying. 

“ — but I bet she’d know what we’d done,” Fred said 
out of the corner of his mouth. “If only I hadn’t offered 
to sell her some Puking Pastilles yesterday — ” 

“We could try the Fever Fudge,” George muttered, “no 
one’s seen that yet — ” 

“Does it work?” inquired Ron hopefully, as the 
hammering of rain on the roof intensified and wind 
howled around the building. 

“Well, yeah,” said Fred, “your temperature’ll go right 
up — ” 



“ — but you get these massive pus-filled boils too,” 
said George, “and we haven’t worked out how to get 
rid of them yet.” 

“I can’t see any boils,” said Ron, staring at the twins. 

“No, well, you wouldn’t,” said Fred darkly, “they’re not 
in a place we generally display to the public — ” 



Page | 484Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ — but they make sitting on a broom a right pain in 
the — ” 



“All right, everyone, listen up,” said Angelina loudly, 
emerging from the Captain’s office. “I know it’s not 
ideal weather, but there’s a good chance we’ll be 
playing Slytherin in conditions like this so it’s a good 
idea to work out how we’re going to cope with them. 
Harry, didn’t you do something to your glasses to stop 
the rain fogging them up when we played Hufflepuff 
in that storm?” 

“Hermione did it,” said Harry. He pulled out his wand, 
tapped his glasses and said, “Imperviusl” 

“I think we all ought to try that,” said Angelina. “If we 
could just keep the rain off our faces it would really 
help visibility — all together, come on — Imperviusl 
Okay. Let’s go.” 

They all stowed their wands back in the inside 
pockets of their robes, shouldered their brooms, and 
followed Angelina out of the changing rooms. 

They squelched through the deepening mud to the 
middle of the pitch; visibility was still very poor even 
with the Impervius Charm; light was fading fast and 
curtains of rain were sweeping the grounds. 

“All right, on my whistle,” shouted Angelina. 

Harry kicked off from the ground, spraying mud in all 
directions, and shot upward, the wind pulling him 
slightly off course. He had no idea how he was going 
to see the Snitch in this weather; he was having 
enough difficulty seeing the one Bludger with which 
they were practicing; a minute into the practice it 
almost unseated him and he had to use the Sloth 
Grip Roll to avoid it. Unfortunately Angelina did not 
Page | 485Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




see this; in fact, she did not appear to be able to see 
anything; none of them had a clue what the others 
were doing. The wind was picking up; even at a 
distance Harry could hear the swishing, pounding 
sounds of the rain pummeling the surface of the lake. 

Angelina kept them at it for nearly an hour before 
conceding defeat. She led her sodden and disgruntled 
team back into the changing rooms, insisting that the 
practice had not been a waste of time, though without 
any real conviction in her voice. Fred and George were 
looking particularly annoyed; both were bandy-legged 
and winced with every movement. Harry could hear 
them complaining in low voices as he toweled his hair 
dry. 

“I think a few of mine have ruptured,” said Fred in a 
hollow voice. 

“Mine haven’t,” said George, wincing. “They’re 
throbbing like mad ... feel bigger if anything ...” 

“OUCH!” said Harry. 

He pressed the towel to his face, his eyes screwed 
tight with pain. The scar on his forehead had seared 
again, more painfully than in months. 

“What’s up?” said several voices. 

Harry emerged from behind his towel; the changing 
room was blurred because he was not wearing his 
glasses; but he could still tell that everyone’s face was 
turned toward him. 

“Nothing,” he muttered, “I — poked myself in the eye, 
that’s all...” 



Page | 486Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But he gave Ron a significant look and the two of 
them hung back as the rest of the team filed back 
outside, muffled in their cloaks, their hats pulled low 
over their ears. 

“What happened?” said Ron, the moment that Alicia 
had disappeared through the door. “Was it your 
scar?” 

Harry nodded. 

“But ...” Looking scared, Ron strode across to the 
window and stared out into the rain, “He — he can’t 
be near us now, can he?” 

“No,” Harry muttered, sinking onto a bench and 
rubbing his forehead. “He’s probably miles away. It 
hurt because ... he’s ... angry.” 

Harry had not meant to say that at all, and heard the 
words as though a stranger had spoken them — yet 
he knew at once that they were true. He did not know 
how he knew it, but he did; Voldemort, wherever he 
was, whatever he was doing, was in a towering 
temper. 

“Did you see him?” said Ron, looking horrified. “Did 
you . . . get a vision, or something?” 

Harry sat quite still, staring at his feet, allowing his 
mind and his memory to relax in the aftermath of the 
pain... 

A confused tangle of shapes, a howling rush of voices 



“He wants something done, and it’s not happening 
fast enough,” he said. 



Page | 487Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Again, he felt surprised to hear the words coming out 
of his mouth, and yet quite certain that they were 
true. 

“But ... how do you know?” said Ron. 

Harry shook his head and covered his eyes with his 
hands, pressing down upon them with his palms. 
Little stars erupted in them. He felt Ron sit down on 
the bench beside him and knew Ron was staring at 
him. 

“Is this what it was about last time?” said Ron in a 
hushed voice. “When your scar hurt in Umbridge’s 
office? You-Know-Who was angry?” 

Harry shook his head. 

“What is it, then?” 

Harry was thinking himself back. He had been 
looking into Umbridge’s face... His scar had hurt ... 
and he had had that odd feeling in his stomach ... a 
strange, leaping feeling ... a happy feeling... But, of 
course, he had not recognized it for what it was, as he 
had been feeling so miserable himself. . . 

“Last time, it was because he was pleased,” he said. 
“Really pleased. 

“He thought ... something good was going to happen. 
And the night before we came back to Hogwarts ...” 

He thought back to the moment when his scar had 
hurt so badly in his and Ron’s bedroom in 
Grimmauld Place. “He was furious...” 

He looked around at Ron, who was gaping at him. 



Page | 488Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You could take over from Trelawney, mate,” he said 
in an awed voice. 

“I’m not making prophecies,” said Harry. 

“No, you know what you’re doing?” Ron said, 
sounding both scared and impressed. “Harry, you’re 
reading You-Know-Who’s mind...” 

“No,” said Harry, shaking his head. “It’s more like ... 
his mood, I suppose. I’m just getting flashes of what 
mood he’s in... Dumbledore said something like this 
was happening last year. . . He said that when 
Voldemort was near me, or when he was feeling 
hatred, I could tell. Well, now I’m feeling it when he’s 
pleased too...” 

There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the 
building. 

“You’ve got to tell someone,” said Ron. 

“I told Sirius last time.” 

“Well, tell him about this time!” 

“Can’t, can I?” said Harry grimly. “Umbridge is 
watching the owls and the fires, remember?” 

“Well then, Dumbledore — ” 

“I’ve just told you, he already knows,” said Harry 
shortly, getting to his feet, taking his cloak off his peg, 
and swinging it around himself. “There’s no point 
telling him again.” 

Ron did up the fastening of his own cloak, watching 
Harry thoughtfully. 



Page | 489Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Dumbledore’d want to know,” he said. 



Harry shrugged. 

“C’mon ... we’ve still got Silencing Charms to practice 



They hurried back through the dark grounds, sliding 
and stumbling up the muddy lawns, not talking. 

Harry was thinking hard. What was it that Voldemort 
wanted done that was not happening quickly enough? 

“He’s got other plans ... plans he can put into operation 
very quietly indeed . . . stuff he can only get by stealth 
... like a weapon. Something he didn’t have last time.” 

He had not thought about those words in weeks; he 
had been too absorbed in what was going on at 
Hogwarts, too busy dwelling on the ongoing battles 
with Umbridge, the injustice of all the Ministry 
interference... But now they came back to him and 
made him wonder... Voldemort’s anger would make 
sense if he was no nearer laying hands on the 
weapon, whatever it was... Had the Order thwarted 
him, stopped him from seizing it? Where was it kept? 
Who had it now? 

“Mimbulus mimbletonia,” said Ron’s voice and Harry 
came back to his senses just in time to clamber 
through the portrait hole into the common room. 

It appeared that Hermione had gone to bed early, 
leaving Crookshanks curled in a nearby chair and an 
assortment of knobbly, knitted elf hats lying on a 
table by the fire. Harry was rather grateful that she 
was not around because he did not much want to 
discuss his scar hurting and have her urge him to go 
to Dumbledore too. Ron kept throwing him anxious 
glances, but Harry pulled out his Potions book and 
Page | 490Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




set to work to finish his essay, though he was only 
pretending to concentrate and, by the time that Ron 
said he was going to bed too, had written hardly 
anything. 

Midnight came and went while Harry was reading and 
rereading a passage about the uses of scurvy-grass, 
lovage, and sneezewort and not taking in a word of 
it... 

These plantes are moste efficacious in the inflaming 
of the braine, and are therefore much used in 
Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts, where the 
wizard is desirous of producing hot-headedness and 
recklessness... 

... Hermione said Sirius was becoming reckless 
cooped up in Grimmauld Place... 

. . . moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and 
are therefore much used . . . 

. . . the Daily Prophet would think his brain was 
inflamed if they found out that he knew what 
Voldemort was feeling ... 

. . . therefore much used in Confusing and 
Befuddlement Draughts . . . 

. . . confusing was the word, all right; why did he know 
what Voldemort was feeling? What was this weird 
connection between them, which Dumbledore had 
never been able to explain satisfactorily? 

. . . where the wizard is desirous . . . 

. . . how he would like to sleep . . . 

...of producing hot-headedness . . . 

Page | 491Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




... It was warm and comfortable in his armchair 
before the fire, with the rain still beating heavily on 
the windowpanes and Crookshanks purring and the 
crackling of the flames... 

The book slipped from Harry’s slack grip and landed 
with a dull thud on the hearthrug. His head fell 
sideways... 

He was walking once more along a windowless 
corridor, his footsteps echoing in the silence. As the 
door at the end of the passage loomed larger his heart 
beat fast with excitement... If he could only open it ... 
enter beyond . . . 

He stretched out his hand... His fingertips were 
inches from it... 

“Harry Potter, sir!” 

He awoke with a start. The candles had all been 
extinguished in the common room, but there was 
something moving close by. 

“Whozair?” said Harry, sitting upright in his chair. 

The fire was almost extinguished, the room very dark. 

“Dobby has your owl, sir!” said a squeaky voice. 

“Dobby?” said Harry thickly, peering through the 
gloom toward the source of the voice. 

Dobby the house-elf was standing beside the table on 
which Hermione had left her half a dozen knitted 
hats. His large, pointed ears were now sticking out 
from beneath what looked like all the hats that 
Hermione had ever knitted; he was wearing one on 
top of the other, so that his head seemed elongated by 



Page | 492Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




two or three feet, and on the very topmost bobble sat 
Hedwig, hooting serenely and obviously cured. 



“Dobby volunteered to return Harry Potter’s owl!” said 
the elf squeakily, with a look of positive adoration on 
his face. “Professor Grubbly-Plank says she is all well 
now, sir!” 

He sank into a deep bow so that his pencil-like nose 
brushed the threadbare surface of the hearthrug and 
Hedwig gave an indignant hoot and fluttered onto the 
arm of Harry’s chair. 

“Thanks, Dobby!” said Harry, stroking Hedwig’s head 
and blinking hard, trying to rid himself of the image 
of the door in his dream... It had been very vivid... 
Looking back at Dobby, he noticed that the elf was 
also wearing several scarves and innumerable socks, 
so that his feet looked far too big for his body. 

“Er . . . have you been taking all the clothes 
Hermione’s been leaving out?” 

“Oh no, sir,” said Dobby happily, “Dobby has been 
taking some for Winky too, sir.” 

“Yeah, how is Winky?” asked Harry. 

Dobby’s ears drooped slightly. 

“Winky is still drinking lots, sir,” he said sadly, his 
enormous round green eyes, large as tennis balls, 
downcast. “She still does not care for clothes, Harry 
Potter. Nor do the other house-elves. None of them 
will clean Gryffindor Tower anymore, not with the 
hats and socks hidden everywhere, they finds them 
insulting, sir. Dobby does it all himself, sir, but 
Dobby does not mind, sir, for he always hopes to meet 
Harry Potter and tonight, sir, he has got his wish!” 
Page | 493Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby sank into a deep bow again. “But Harry Potter 
does not seem happy,” Dobby went on, straightening 
up again and looking timidly at Harry. “Dobby heard 
him muttering in his sleep. Was Harry Potter having 
