he had been slashed with an invisible sword. He 
staggered backward and collapsed onto the 
waterlogged floor with a great splash, his wand falling 
from his limp right hand. 

“No — ” gasped Harry. 

Slipping and staggering, Harry got to his feet and 
plunged toward Malfoy, whose face was now shining 
scarlet, his white hands scrabbling at his blood- 
soaked chest. 



Page | 586 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No — I didn’t — ” 



Harry did not know what he was saying; he fell to his 
knees beside Malfoy, who was shaking uncontrollably 
in a pool of his own blood. Moaning Myrtle let out a 
deafening scream: “MURDER! MURDER IN THE 
BATHROOM! MURDER!” 

The door banged open behind Harry and he looked 
up, terrified: Snape had burst into the room, his face 
livid. Pushing Harry roughly aside, he knelt over 
Malfoy, drew his wand, and traced it over the deep 
wounds Harry’s curse had made, muttering an 
incantation that sounded almost like song. The flow 
of blood seemed to ease; Snape wiped the residue 
from Malfoy’s face and repeated his spell. Now the 
wounds seemed to be knitting. 

Harry was still watching, horrified by what he had 
done, barely aware that he too was soaked in blood 
and water. Moaning Myrtle was still sobbing and 
wailing overhead. When Snape had performed his 
countercurse for the third time, he half-lifted Malfoy 
into a standing position. 

“You need the hospital wing. There may be a certain 
amount of scarring, but if you take dittany 
immediately we might avoid even that. ... Come. ...” 

He supported Malfoy across the bathroom, turning at 
the door to say in a voice of cold fury, “And you, 

Potter ... You wait here for me.” 

It did not occur to Harry for a second to disobey. He 
stood up slowly, shaking, and looked down at the wet 
floor. There were bloodstains floating like crimson 
flowers across its surface. He could not even find it in 
himself to tell Moaning Myrtle to be quiet, as she 



Page | 587 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




continued to wail and sob with increasingly evident 
enjoyment. 



Snape returned ten minutes later. He stepped into the 
bathroom and closed the door behind him. 

“Go,” he said to Myrtle, and she swooped back into 
her toilet at once, leaving a ringing silence behind 
her. 

“I didn’t mean it to happen,” said Harry at once. His 
voice echoed in the cold, watery space. “I didn’t know 
what that spell did.” 

But Snape ignored this. “Apparently I underestimated 
you, Potter,” he said quietly. “Who would have 
thought you knew such Dark Magic? Who taught you 
that spell?” 

“I — read about it somewhere.” 

“Where?” 

“It was — a library book,” Harry invented wildly. “I 
can’t remember what it was call — ” 

“Liar,” said Snape. Harry’s throat went dry. He knew 
what Snape was going to do and he had never been 
able to prevent it. ... 

The bathroom seemed to shimmer before his eyes; he 
struggled to block out all thought, but try as he 
might, the Half-Blood Prince’s copy of Advanced 
Potion-Making swam hazily to the forefront of his 
mind. 

And then he was staring at Snape again, in the midst 
of this wrecked, soaked bathroom. He stared into 



Page | 588 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Snape’s black eyes, hoping against hope that Snape 
had not seen what he feared, but — 

“Bring me your schoolbag,” said Snape softly, “and all 
of your schoolbooks. All of them. Bring them to me 
here. Now!” 

There was no point arguing. Harry turned at once and 
splashed out of the bathroom. Once in the corridor, 
he broke into a run toward Gryffindor Tower. Most 
people were walking the other way; they gaped at him, 
drenched in water and blood, but he answered none 
of the questions fired at him as he ran past. 

He felt stunned; it was as though a beloved pet had 
turned suddenly savage; what had the Prince been 
thinking to copy such a spell into his book? And what 
would happen when Snape saw it? Would he tell 
Slughorn — Harry’s stomach churned — how Harry 
had been achieving such good results in Potions all 
year? Would he confiscate or destroy the book that 
had taught Harry so much . . . the book that had 
become a kind of guide and friend? Harry could not 
let it happen. ... He could not ... 

“Where Ve you — ? Why are you soaking — ? Is that 
blood?” 

Ron was standing at the top of the stairs, looking 
bewildered at the sight of Harry. 

“I need your book,” Harry panted. “Your Potions book. 
Quick ... give it to me ...” 

“But what about the Half-Blood — ” 

“I’ll explain later!” 



Page | 589 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron pulled his copy of Advanced Potion-Making out of 
his bag and handed it over; Harry sprinted off past 
him and back to the common room. Here, he seized 
his schoolbag, ignoring the amazed looks of several 
people who had already finished their dinner, threw 
himself back out of the portrait hole, and hurtled off 
along the seventh-floor corridor. 

He skidded to a halt beside the tapestry of dancing 
trolls, closed his eyes, and began to walk. 

I need a place to hide my book. ... I need a place to 
hide my book. ... I need a place to hide my book. . . . 

Three times he walked up and down in front of the 
stretch of blank wall. When he opened his eyes, there 
it was at last: the door to the Room of Requirement. 
Harry wrenched it open, flung himself inside, and 
slammed it shut. 

He gasped. Despite his haste, his panic, his fear of 
what awaited him back in the bathroom, he could not 
help but be overawed by what he was looking at. He 
was standing in a room the size of a large cathedral, 
whose high windows were sending shafts of light 
down upon what looked like a city with towering 
walls, built of what Harry knew must be objects 
hidden by generations of Hogwarts inhabitants. There 
were alleyways and roads bordered by teetering piles 
of broken and damaged furniture, stowed away, 
perhaps, to hide the evidence of mishandled magic, or 
else hidden by castle-proud house-elves. There were 
thousands and thousands of books, no doubt banned 
or graffitied or stolen. There were winged catapults 
and Fanged Frisbees, some still with enough life in 
them to hover halfheartedly over the mountains of 
other forbidden items; there were chipped bottles of 
congealed potions, hats, jewels, cloaks; there were 
what looked like dragon eggshells, corked bottles 
Page | 590 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




whose contents still shimmered evilly, several rusting 
swords, and a heavy, bloodstained axe. 

Harry hurried forward into one of the many alleyways 
between all this hidden treasure. He turned right past 
an enormous stuffed troll, ran on a short way, took a 
left at the broken Vanishing Cabinet in which 
Montague had got lost the previous year, finally 
pausing beside a large cupboard that seemed to have 
had acid thrown at its blistered surface. He opened 
one of the cupboard’s creaking doors: It had already 
been used as a hiding place for something in a cage 
that had long since died; its skeleton had five legs. He 
stuffed the Half-Blood Prince’s book behind the cage 
and slammed the door. He paused for a moment, his 
heart thumping horribly, gazing around at all the 
clutter. ... Would he be able to find this spot again 
amidst all this junk? Seizing the chipped bust of an 
ugly old warlock from on top of a nearby crate, he 
stood it on top of the cupboard where the book was 
now hidden, perched a dusty old wig and a tarnished 
tiara on the statue’s head to make it more distinctive, 
then sprinted back through the alleyways of hidden 
junk as fast as he could go, back to the door, back 
out onto the corridor, where he slammed the door 
behind him, and it turned at once back into stone. 

Harry ran flat-out toward the bathroom on the floor 
below, cramming Ron’s copy of Advanced Potion- 
Making into his bag as he did so. A minute later, he 
was back in front of Snape, who held out his hand 
wordlessly for Harry’s schoolbag. Harry handed it 
over, panting, a searing pain in his chest, and waited. 

One by one, Snape extracted Harry’s books and 
examined them. Finally, the only book left was the 
Potions book, which he looked at very carefully before 
speaking. 



Page | 591 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“This is your copy of Advanced Potion-Making, is it, 
Potter?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, still breathing hard. 

“You’re quite sure of that, are you, Potter?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, with a touch more defiance. 

“This is the copy of Advanced Potion-Making that you 
purchased from Flourish and Blotts?” 

“Yes,” said Harry firmly. 

“Then why,” asked Snape, “does it have the name 
‘Roonil Wazlib’ written inside the front cover?” 

Harry’s heart missed a beat. “That’s my nickname,” 
he said. 

“Your nickname,” repeated Snape. 

“Yeah ... that’s what my friends call me,” said Harry. 

“I understand what a nickname is,” said Snape. The 
cold, black eyes were boring once more into Harry’s; 
he tried not to look into them. Close your mind. ... 
Close your mind. . . . But he had never learned how to 
do it properly. . . . 

“Do you know what I think, Potter?” said Snape, very 
quietly. “I think that you are a liar and a cheat and 
that you deserve detention with me every Saturday 
until the end of term. What do you think, Potter?” 

“I — I don’t agree, sir,” said Harry, still refusing to 
look into Snape ’s eyes. 



Page | 592 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, we shall see how you feel after your 
detentions,” said Snape. “Ten o’clock Saturday 
morning, Potter. My office.” 

“But sir ...” said Harry, looking up desperately. 
“Quidditch ... the last match of the ...” 

“Ten o’clock,” whispered Snape, with a smile that 
showed his yellow teeth. “Poor Gryffindor ... fourth 
place this year, I fear ...” 

And he left the bathroom without another word, 
leaving Harry to stare into the cracked mirror, feeling 
sicker, he was sure, than Ron had ever felt in his life. 

“I won’t say ‘I told you so,’ ” said Hermione, an hour 
later in the common room. 

“Leave it, Hermione,” said Ron angrily. 

Harry had never made it to dinner; he had no appetite 
at all. He had just finished telling Ron, Hermione, and 
Ginny what had happened, not that there seemed to 
have been much need. The news had traveled very 
fast: Apparently Moaning Myrtle had taken it upon 
herself to pop up in every bathroom in the castle to 
tell the story; Malfoy had already been visited in the 
hospital wing by Pansy Parkinson, who had lost no 
time in vilifying Harry far and wide, and Snape had 
told the staff precisely what had happened. Harry had 
already been called out of the common room to 
endure fifteen highly unpleasant minutes in the 
company of Professor McGonagall, who had told him 
he was lucky not to have been expelled and that she 
supported wholeheartedly Snape ’s punishment of 
detention every Saturday until the end of term. 



Page | 593 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I told you there was something wrong with that 
Prince person,” Hermione said, evidently unable to 
stop herself. “And I was right, wasn’t I?” 

“No, I don’t think you were,” said Harry stubbornly. 

He was having a bad enough time without Hermione 
lecturing him; the looks on the Gryffindor team’s 
faces when he had told them he would not be able to 
play on Saturday had been the worst punishment of 
all. He could feel Ginny’s eyes on him now but did not 
meet them; he did not want to see disappointment or 
anger there. He had just told her that she would be 
playing Seeker on Saturday and that Dean would be 
rejoining the team as Chaser in her place. Perhaps, if 
they won, Ginny and Dean would make up during the 
post-match euphoria. ... The thought went through 
Harry like an icy knife. ... 

“Harry,” said Hermione, “how can you still stick up 
for that book when that spell — ” 

“Will you stop harping on about the book!” snapped 
Harry. “The Prince only copied it out! It’s not like he 
was advising anyone to use it! For all we know, he 
was making a note of something that had been used 
against him!” 

“I don’t believe this,” said Hermione. “You’re actually 
defending — ” 

“I’m not defending what I did!” said Harry quickly. “I 
wish I hadn’t done it, and not just because I’ve got 
about a dozen detentions. You know I wouldn’t’ve 
used a spell like that, not even on Malfoy, but you 
can’t blame the Prince, he hadn’t written ‘try this out, 
it’s really good’ — he was just making notes for 
himself, wasn’t he, not for anyone else. ...” 



Page | 594 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you telling me,” said Hermione, “that you’re 
going to go back — ?” 

“And get the book? Yeah, I am,” said Harry forcefully. 
“Listen, without the Prince I’d never have won the 
Felix Felicis. I’d never have known how to save Ron 
from poisoning, I’d never have — ” 

“ — got a reputation for Potions brilliance you don’t 
deserve,” said Hermione nastily. 

“Give it a rest, Hermione!” said Ginny, and Harry was 
so amazed, so grateful, he looked up. “By the sound 
of it, Malfoy was trying to use an Unforgivable Curse, 
you should be glad Harry had something good up his 
sleeve!” 

“Well, of course I’m glad Harry wasn’t cursed!” said 
Hermione, clearly stung. “But you can’t call that 
Sectumsempra spell good, Ginny, look where it’s 
landed him! And I’d have thought, seeing what this 
has done to your chances in the match — ” 

“Oh, don’t start acting as though you understand 
Quidditch,” snapped Ginny, “you’ll only embarrass 
yourself.” 

Harry and Ron stared: Hermione and Ginny, who had 
always got on together very well, were now sitting 
with their arms folded, glaring in opposite directions. 
Ron looked nervously at Harry, then snatched up a 
book at random and hid behind it. Harry, however, 
little though he knew he deserved it, felt unbelievably 
cheerful all of a sudden, even though none of them 
spoke again for the rest of the evening. 

His lightheartedness was short-lived. There were 
Slytherin taunts to be endured next day, not to 
mention much anger from fellow Gryffindors, who 

Page | 595 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




were most unhappy that their Captain had got 
himself banned from the final match of the season. By 
Saturday morning, whatever he might have told 
Hermione, Harry would have gladly exchanged all the 
Felix Felicis in the world to be walking down to the 
Quidditch pitch with Ron, Ginny, and the others. It 
was almost unbearable to turn away from the mass of 
students streaming out into the sunshine, all of them 
wearing rosettes and hats and brandishing banners 
and scarves, to descend the stone steps into the 
dungeons and walk until the distant sounds of the 
crowd were quite obliterated, knowing that he would 
not be able to hear a word of commentary or a cheer 
or groan. 

“Ah, Potter,” said Snape, when Harry had knocked on 
his door and entered the unpleasantly familiar office 
that Snape, despite teaching floors above now, had 
not vacated; it was as dimly lit as ever and the same 
slimy dead objects were suspended in colored potions 
all around the walls. Ominously, there were many 
cobwebbed boxes piled on a table where Harry was 
clearly supposed to sit; they had an aura of tedious, 
hard, and pointless work about them. 

“Mr. Filch has been looking for someone to clear out 
these old files,” said Snape softly. “They are the 
records of other Hogwarts wrongdoers and their 
punishments. Where the ink has grown faint, or the 
cards have suffered damage from mice, we would like 
you to copy out the crimes and punishments afresh 
and, making sure that they are in alphabetical order, 
replace them in the boxes. You will not use magic.” 

“Right, Professor,” said Harry, with as much contempt 
as he could put into the last three syllables. 

“I thought you could start,” said Snape, a malicious 
smile on his lips, “with boxes one thousand and 

Page | 596 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




twelve to one thousand and fifty-six. You will find 
some familiar names in there, which should add 
interest to the task. Here, you see ...” 

He pulled out a card from one of the topmost boxes 
with a flourish and read, “ ‘James Potter and Sirius 
Black. Apprehended using an illegal hex upon Bertram 
Aubrey. Aubrey’s head twice normal size. Double 
detention.’ ” Snape sneered. “It must be such a 
comfort to think that, though they are gone, a record 
of their great achievements remains. ...” 

Harry felt the familiar boiling sensation in the pit of 
his stomach. Biting his tongue to prevent himself 
retaliating, he sat down in front of the boxes and 
pulled one toward him. 

It was, as Harry had anticipated, useless, boring 
work, punctuated (as Snape had clearly planned) with 
the regular jolt in the stomach that meant he had just 
read his father or Sirius’s names, usually coupled 
together in various petty misdeeds, occasionally 
accompanied by those of Remus Lupin and Peter 
Pettigrew. And while he copied out all their various 
offenses and punishments, he wondered what was 
going on outside, where the match would have just 
started . . . Ginny playing Seeker against Cho . . . 

Harry glanced again and again at the large clock 
ticking on the wall. It seemed to be moving half as 
fast as a regular clock; perhaps Snape had bewitched 
it to go extra slowly? He could not have been here for 
only half an hour ... an hour ... an hour and a half. . . . 

Harry’s stomach started rumbling when the clock 
showed half past twelve. Snape, who had not spoken 
at all since setting Harry his task, finally looked up at 
ten past one. 



Page | 597 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I think that will do,” he said coldly. “Mark the place 
you have reached. You will continue at ten o’clock 
next Saturday.” 

“Yes, sir.” 

Harry stuffed a bent card into the box at random and 
hurried out of the door before Snape could change his 
mind, racing back up the stone steps, straining his 
ears to hear a sound from the pitch, but all was quiet. 
...It was over, then. ... 

He hesitated outside the crowded Great Hall, then ran 
up the marble staircase; whether Gryffindor had won 
or lost, the team usually celebrated or commiserated 
in their own common room. 

“ Quid agis?” he said tentatively to the Fat Lady, 
wondering what he would find inside. 

Her expression was unreadable as she replied, “You’ll 
see.” 

And she swung forward. 

A roar of celebration erupted from the hole behind 
her. Harry gaped as people began to scream at the 
sight of him; several hands pulled him into the room. 

“We won!” yelled Ron, bounding into sight and 
brandishing the silver Cup at Harry. “We won! Four 
hundred and fifty to a hundred and forty! We won!” 

Harry looked around; there was Ginny running 
toward him; she had a hard, blazing look in her face 
as she threw her arms around him. And without 
thinking, without planning it, without worrying about 
the fact that fifty people were watching, Harry kissed 
her. 

Page | 598 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




After several long moments — or it might have been 
half an hour — or possibly several sunlit days — they 
broke apart. The room had gone very quiet. Then 
several people wolf-whistled and there was an 
outbreak of nervous giggling. Harry looked over the 
top of Ginny’s head to see Dean Thomas holding a 
shattered glass in his hand, and Romilda Vane 
looking as though she might throw something. 
Hermione was beaming, but Harry’s eyes sought Ron. 
At last he found him, still clutching the Cup and 
wearing an expression appropriate to having been 
clubbed over the head. For a fraction of a second they 
looked at each other, then Ron gave a tiny jerk of the 
head that Harry understood to mean, Well — if you 
must. 

The creature in his chest roaring in triumph, he 
grinned down at Ginny and gestured wordlessly out of 
the portrait hole. A long walk in the grounds seemed 
indicated, during which — if they had time — they 
might discuss the match. 



Page | 599 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






THE SEER OVERHEARD 

The fact that Harry Potter was going out with Ginny 
Weasley seemed to interest a great number of people, 
most of them girls, yet Harry found himself newly and 
happily impervious to gossip over the next few weeks. 
After all, it made a very nice change to be talked 
about because of something that was making him 
happier than he could remember being for a very long 
time, rather than because he had been involved in 
horrific scenes of Dark Magic. 

“You’d think people had better things to gossip 
about,” said Ginny, as she sat on the common room 
floor, leaning against Harry’s legs and reading the 
Daily Prophet “Three dementor attacks in a week, and 
all Romilda Vane does is ask me if it’s true you’ve got 
a hippogriff tattooed across your chest.” 

Ron and Hermione both roared with laughter. Harry 
ignored them. 

“What did you tell her?” 



Page | 600 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“I told her it’s a Hungarian Horntail,” said Ginny, 
turning a page of the newspaper idly. “Much more 
macho.” 



“Thanks,” said Harry, grinning. “And what did you tell 
her Ron’s got?” 

“A Pygmy Puff, but I didn’t say where.” 

Ron scowled as Hermione rolled around laughing. 

“Watch it,” he said, pointing warningly at Harry and 
Ginny. “Just because I’ve given my permission doesn’t 
mean I can’t withdraw it — ” 

“ ‘Your permission,’ ” scoffed Ginny. “Since when did 
you give me permission to do anything? Anyway, you 
said yourself you’d rather it was Harry than Michael 
or Dean.” 

“Yeah, I would,” said Ron grudgingly. “And just as 
long as you don’t start snogging each other in public 



“You filthy hypocrite! What about you and Lavender, 
thrashing around like a pair of eels all over the 
place?” demanded Ginny. 

But Ron’s tolerance was not to be tested much as 
they moved into June, for Harry and Ginny’s time 
together was becoming increasingly restricted. 

Ginny’s O.W.L.s were approaching and she was 
therefore forced to study for hours into the night. On 
one such evening, when Ginny had retired to the 
library, and Harry was sitting beside the window in 
the common room, supposedly finishing his 
Herbology homework but in reality reliving a 
particularly happy hour he had spent down by the 
lake with Ginny at lunchtime, Hermione dropped into 
Page | 601 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




the seat between him and Ron with an unpleasantly 
purposeful look on her face. 

“I want to talk to you, Harry.” 

“What about?” said Harry suspiciously. Only the 
previous day, Hermione had told him off for 
distracting Ginny when she ought to be working hard 
for her examinations. 

“The so-called Half-Blood Prince.” 

“Oh, not again,” he groaned. “Will you please drop it?” 

He had not dared to return to the Room of 
Requirement to retrieve his book, and his 
performance in Potions was suffering accordingly 
(though Slughorn, who approved of Ginny, had 
jocularly attributed this to Harry being lovesick). But 
Harry was sure that Snape had not yet given up hope 
of laying hands on the Prince’s book, and was 
determined to leave it where it was while Snape 
remained on the lookout. 

“I’m not dropping it,” said Hermione firmly, “until 
you’ve heard me out. Now, I’ve been trying to find out 
a bit about who might make a hobby of inventing 
Dark spells — ” 

“He didn’t make a hobby of it — ” 

“He, he — who says it’s a he?” 

“We’ve been through this,” said Harry crossly. “Prince, 
Hermione, PrinceV’ 

“Right!” said Hermione, red patches blazing in her 
cheeks as she pulled a very old piece of newsprint out 



Page | 602 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




of her pocket and slammed it down on the table in 
front of Harry. “Look at that! Look at the picture!” 



Harry picked up the crumbling piece of paper and 
stared at the moving photograph, yellowed with age; 
Ron leaned over for a look too. The picture showed a 
skinny girl of around fifteen. She was not pretty; she 
looked simultaneously cross and sullen, with heavy 
brows and a long, pallid face. Underneath the 
photograph was the caption: EILEEN PRINCE, 
CAPTAIN OF THE HOGWARTS GOBSTONES TEAM. 

“So?” said Harry, scanning the short news item to 
which the picture belonged; it was a rather dull story 
about interschool competitions. 

“Her name was Eileen Prince. Prince, Harry.” 

They looked at each other, and Harry realized what 
Hermione was trying to say. He burst out laughing. 

“No way.” 

“What?” 

“You think she was the Half-Blood ... ? Oh, come on.” 

“Well, why not? Harry, there aren’t any real princes in 
the Wizarding world! It’s either a nickname, a made- 
up title somebody’s given themselves, or it could be 
their actual name, couldn’t it? No, listen! If, say, her 
father was a wizard whose surname was Prince, and 
her mother was a Muggle, then that would make her 
a “half-blood Prince’!” 

“Yeah, very ingenious, Hermione ...” 

“But it would! Maybe she was proud of being half a 
Prince!” 

Page | 603 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Listen, Hermione, I can tell it’s not a girl. I can just 
tell.” 



“The truth is that you don’t think a girl would have 
been clever enough,” said Hermione angrily. 

“How can I have hung round with you for five years 
and not think girls are clever?” said Harry, stung by 
this. “It’s the way he writes, I just know the Prince 
was a bloke, I can tell. This girl hasn’t got anything to 
do with it. Where did you get this anyway?” 

“The library,” said Hermione predictably. “There’s a 
whole collection of old Prophets up there. Well, I’m 
going to find out more about Eileen Prince if I can.” 

“Enjoy yourself,” said Harry irritably. 

“I will,” said Hermione. “And the first place I’ll look,” 
she shot at him, as she reached the portrait hole, “is 
records of old Potions awards!” 

Harry scowled after her for a moment, then continued 
his contemplation of the darkening sky. 

“She’s just never got over you outperforming her in 
Potions,” said Ron, returning to his copy of A 
Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi. 

“You don’t think I’m mad, wanting that book back, do 
you?” 

“ ’Course not,” said Ron robustly. “He was a genius, 
the Prince. Anyway ... without his bezoar tip ...” He 
drew his finger significantly across his own throat. “I 
wouldn’t be here to discuss it, would I? I mean, I’m 
not saying that spell you used on Malfoy was great — ” 

“Nor am I,” said Harry quickly. 

Page | 604 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But he healed all right, didn’t he? Back on his feet in 
no time.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry; this was perfectly true, although 
his conscience squirmed slightly all the same. 

“Thanks to Snape ...” 

“You still got detention with Snape this Saturday?” 
Ron continued. 

“Yeah, and the Saturday after that, and the Saturday 
after that,” sighed Harry. “And he’s hinting now that if 
I don’t get all the boxes done by the end of term, we’ll 
carry on next year.” 

He was finding these detentions particularly irksome 
because they cut into the already limited time he 
could have been spending with Ginny. Indeed, he had 
frequently wondered lately whether Snape did not 
know this, for he was keeping Harry later and later 
every time, while making pointed asides about Harry 
having to miss the good weather and the varied 
opportunities it offered. 

Harry was shaken from these bitter reflections by the 
appearance at his side of Jimmy Peakes, who was 
holding out a scroll of parchment. 

“Thanks, Jimmy ... Hey, it’s from Dumbledore!” said 
Harry excitedly, unrolling the parchment and 
scanning it. “He wants me to go to his office as quick 
as I can!” 

They stared at each other. 

“Blimey,” whispered Ron. “You don’t reckon ... he 
hasn’t found ... ?” 



Page | 605 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Better go and see, hadn’t I?” said Harry, jumping to 
his feet. 

He hurried out of the common room and along the 
seventh floor as fast as he could, passing nobody but 
Peeves, who swooped past in the opposite direction, 
throwing bits of chalk at Harry in a routine sort of 
way and cackling loudly as he dodged Harry’s 
defensive jinx. Once Peeves had vanished, there was 
silence in the corridors; with only fifteen minutes left 
until curfew, most people had already returned to 
their common rooms. 

And then Harry heard a scream and a crash. He 
stopped in his tracks, listening. 

“How — dare — you — aaaaargh!” 

The noise was coming from a corridor nearby; Harry 
sprinted toward it, his wand at the ready, hurtled 
around another corner, and saw Professor Trelawney 
sprawled upon the floor, her head covered in one of 
her many shawls, several sherry bottles lying beside 
her, one broken. 

“Professor — ” 

Harry hurried forward and helped Professor 
Trelawney to her feet. Some of her glittering beads 
had become entangled with her glasses. She hiccuped 
loudly, patted her hair, and pulled herself up on 
Harry’s helping arm. 

“What happened, Professor?” 

“You may well ask!” she said shrilly. “I was strolling 
along, brooding upon certain dark portents I happen 
to have glimpsed ...” 



Page | 606 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




But Harry was not paying much attention. He had 
just noticed where they were standing: There on the 
right was the tapestry of dancing trolls, and on the 
left, that smoothly impenetrable stretch of stone wall 
that concealed — 

“Professor, were you trying to get into the Room of 
Requirement?” 

"... omens I have been vouchsafed — what?” She 
looked suddenly shifty. 

“The Room of Requirement,” repeated Harry. “Were 
you trying to get in there?” 

“I — well — I didn’t know students knew about — ” 

“Not all of them do,” said Harry. “But what happened? 
You screamed. ... It sounded as though you were 
hurt. ...” 

“I — well,” said Professor Trelawney, drawing her 
shawls around her defensively and staring down at 
him with her vastly magnified eyes. “I wished to — ah 
— deposit certain — um — personal items in the 
room. ...” And she muttered something about “nasty 
accusations.” 

“Right,” said Harry, glancing down at the sherry 
bottles. “But you couldn’t get in and hide them?” 

He found this very odd; the room had opened for him, 
after all, when he had wanted to hide the Half-Blood 
Prince’s book. 

“Oh, I got in all right,” said Professor Trelawney, 
glaring at the wall. “But there was somebody already 
in there.” 



Page | 607 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Somebody in — ? Who?” demanded Harry. “Who was 
in there?” 

“I have no idea,” said Professor Trelawney, looking 
slightly taken aback at the urgency in Harry’s voice. “I 
walked into the room and I heard a voice, which has 
never happened before in all my years of hiding — of 
using the room, I mean.” 

“A voice? Saying what?” 

“I don’t know that it was saying anything,” said 
Professor Trelawney. “It was ... whooping.” 

“ Whooping?” 

“Gleefully,” she said, nodding. 

Harry stared at her. 

“Was it male or female?” 

“I would hazard a guess at male,” said Professor 
Trelawney. 

“And it sounded happy?” 

“Very happy,” said Professor Trelawney sniffily. 

“As though it was celebrating?” 

“Most definitely.” 

“And then — ?” 

“And then I called out Who’s there?’ ” 

“You couldn’t have found out who it was without 
asking?” Harry asked her, slightly frustrated. 

Page | 608 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“The Inner Eye,” said Professor Trelawney with 
