pin bowling. 

Harry turned the card back over and saw, to his 
astonishment, that Dumbledore ’s face had 
disappeared. 

“He’s gone!” 

“Well, you can’t expect him to hang around all day,” 
said Ron. “He’ll be back. No, I’ve got Morgana again 
and I’ve got about six of her ... do you want it? You 
can start collecting.” 

Ron’s eyes strayed to the pile of Chocolate Frogs 
waiting to be unwrapped. 

“Help yourself,” said Harry. “But in, you know, the 
Muggle world, people just stay put in photos.” 

Page | 115 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Do they? What, they don’t move at all?” Ron sounded 
amazed. “Weird).” 



Harry stared as Dumbledore sidled back into the 
picture on his card and gave him a small smile. Ron 
was more interested in eating the frogs than looking 
at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards, but Harry 
couldn’t keep his eyes off them. Soon he had not only 
Dumbledore and Morgana, but Hengist of Woodcraft, 
Alberic Grunnion, Circe, Paracelsus, and Merlin. He 
finally tore his eyes away from the druidess Cliodna, 
who was scratching her nose, to open a bag of Bertie 
Bott’s Every Flavor Beans. 

“You want to be careful with those,” Ron warned 
Harry. “When they say every flavor, they mean every 
flavor — you know, you get all the ordinary ones like 
chocolate and peppermint and marmalade, but then 
you can get spinach and liver and tripe. George 
reckons he had a booger-flavored one once.” 

Ron picked up a green bean, looked at it carefully, 
and bit into a corner. 

“Bleaaargh — see? Sprouts.” 

They had a good time eating the Every Flavor Beans. 
Harry got toast, coconut, baked bean, strawberry, 
curry, grass, coffee, sardine, and was even brave 
enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Ron 
wouldn’t touch, which turned out to be pepper. 

The countryside now flying past the window was 
becoming wilder. The neat fields had gone. Now there 
were woods, twisting rivers, and dark green hills. 

There was a knock on the door of their compartment 
and the round-faced boy Harry had passed on 

Page | 116 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




platform nine and three-quarters came in. He looked 
tearful. 



“Sorry,” he said, “but have you seen a toad at all?” 

When they shook their heads, he wailed, “I’ve lost 
him! He keeps getting away from me!” 

“Hell turn up,” said Harry. 

“Yes,” said the boy miserably. “Well, if you see him ...” 
He left. 

“Don’t know why he’s so bothered,” said Ron. “If I’d 
brought a toad I’d lose it as quick as I could. Mind 
you, I brought Scabbers, so I can’t talk.” 

The rat was still snoozing on Ron’s lap. 

“He might have died and you wouldn’t know the 
difference,” said Ron in disgust. “I tried to turn him 
yellow yesterday to make him more interesting, but 
the spell didn’t work. I’ll show you, look ...” 

He rummaged around in his trunk and pulled out a 
very battered-looking wand. It was chipped in places 
and something white was glinting at the end. 

“Unicorn hair’s nearly poking out. Anyway — ” 

He had just raised his wand when the compartment 
door slid open again. The toadless boy was back, but 
this time he had a girl with him. She was already 
wearing her new Hogwarts robes. 

“Has anyone seen a toad? Neville’s lost one,” she said. 
She had a bossy sort of voice, lots of bushy brown 
hair, and rather large front teeth. 

Page | 117 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“We’ve already told him we haven’t seen it,” said Ron, 
but the girl wasn’t listening, she was looking at the 
wand in his hand. 

“Oh, are you doing magic? Let’s see it, then.” 

She sat down. Ron looked taken aback. 

“Er — all right.” 

He cleared his throat. 

“ Sunshine , daisies, butter mellow, 

Turn this stupid, fat rat yellow.” 

He waved his wand, but nothing happened. Scabbers 
stayed gray and fast asleep. 

“Are you sure that’s a real spell?” said the girl. “Well, 
it’s not very good, is it? I’ve tried a few simple spells 
just for practice and it’s all worked for me. Nobody in 
my family’s magic at all, it was ever such a surprise 
when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of 
course, I mean, it’s the very best school of witchcraft 
there is, I’ve heard — I’ve learned all our course books 
by heart, of course, I just hope it will be enough — I’m 
Hermione Granger, by the way, who are you?” 

She said all this very fast. 

Harry looked at Ron, and was relieved to see by his 
stunned face that he hadn’t learned all the course 
books by heart either. 

“I’m Ron Weasley,” Ron muttered. 

“Harry Potter,” said Harry. 



Page | 118 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you really?” said Hermione. “I know all about 
you, of course — I got a few extra books for 
background reading, and you’re in Modern Magical 
History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and 
Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.” 

“Am I?” said Harry, feeling dazed. 

“Goodness, didn’t you know, I’d have found out 
everything I could if it was me,” said Hermione. “Do 
either of you know what House you’ll be in? I’ve been 
asking around, and I hope I’m in Gryffindor, it sounds 
by far the best; I hear Dumbledore himself was in it, 
but I suppose Ravenclaw wouldn’t be too bad. ... 
Anyway, we’d better go and look for Neville’s toad. 

You two had better change, you know, I expect we’ll 
be there soon.” 

And she left, taking the toadless boy with her. 

“Whatever House I’m in, I hope she’s not in it,” said 
Ron. He threw his wand back into his trunk. “Stupid 
spell — George gave it to me, bet he knew it was a 
dud.” 

“What House are your brothers in?” asked Harry. 

“Gryffindor,” said Ron. Gloom seemed to be settling 
on him again. “Mom and Dad were in it, too. I don’t 
know what they’ll say if I’m not. I don’t suppose 
Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagine if they put 
me in Slytherin.” 

“That’s the House Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who was 
in?” 



“Yeah,” said Ron. He flopped back into his seat, 
looking depressed. 



Page | 119 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“You know, I think the ends of Scabbers’ whiskers are 
a bit lighter,” said Harry, trying to take Ron’s mind off 
Houses. “So what do your oldest brothers do now that 
they’ve left, anyway?” 

Harry was wondering what a wizard did once he’d 
finished school. 

“Charlie’s in Romania studying dragons, and Bill’s in 
Africa doing something for Gringotts,” said Ron. “Did 
you hear about Gringotts? It’s been all over the Daily 
Prophet, but I don’t suppose you get that with the 
Muggles — someone tried to rob a high security 
vault.” 

Harry stared. 

“Really? What happened to them?” 

“Nothing, that’s why it’s such big news. They haven’t 
been caught. My dad says it must’ve been a powerful 
Dark wizard to get round Gringotts, but they don’t 
think they took anything, that’s what’s odd. ’Course, 
everyone gets scared when something like this 
happens in case You-Know-Who’s behind it.” 

Harry turned this news over in his mind. He was 
starting to get a prickle of fear every time You-Know- 
Who was mentioned. He supposed this was all part of 
entering the magical world, but it had been a lot more 
comfortable saying “Voldemort” without worrying. 

“What’s your Quidditch team?” Ron asked. 

“Er — I don’t know any,” Harry confessed. 

“What!” Ron looked dumbfounded. “Oh, you wait, it’s 
the best game in the world — ” And he was off, 
explaining all about the four balls and the positions of 

Page | 120 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




the seven players, describing famous games he’d been 
to with his brothers and the broomstick he’d like to 
get if he had the money. He was just taking Harry 
through the finer points of the game when the 
compartment door slid open yet again, but it wasn’t 
Neville the toadless boy, or Hermione Granger this 
time. 

Three boys entered, and Harry recognized the middle 
one at once: It was the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s 
robe shop. He was looking at Harry with a lot more 
interest than he’d shown back in Diagon Alley. 

“Is it true?” he said. “They’re saying all down the train 
that Harry Potter’s in this compartment. So it’s you, is 
it?” 



“Yes,” said Harry. He was looking at the other boys. 
Both of them were thickset and looked extremely 
mean. Standing on either side of the pale boy, they 
looked like bodyguards. 

“Oh, this is Crabbe and this is Goyle,” said the pale 
boy carelessly, noticing where Harry was looking. 

“And my names Malfoy, Draco Malfoy.” 

Ron gave a slight cough, which might have been 
hiding a snigger. Draco Malfoy looked at him. 

“Think my name’s funny, do you? No need to ask who 
you are. My father told me all the Weasleys have red 
hair, freckles, and more children than they can 
afford.” 

He turned back to Harry. “You’ll soon find out some 
wizarding families are much better than others, 

Potter. You don’t want to go making friends with the 
wrong sort. I can help you there.” 



Page | 121 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




He held out his hand to shake Harry’s, but Harry 
didn’t take it. 

“I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself, 
thanks,” he said coolly. 

Draco Malfoy didn’t go red, but a pink tinge appeared 
in his pale cheeks. 

“I’d be careful if I were you, Potter,” he said slowly. 
“Unless you’re a bit politer you’ll go the same way as 
your parents. They didn’t know what was good for 
them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the 
Weasleys and that Hagrid, and it’ll rub off on you.” 

Both Harry and Ron stood up. 

“Say that again,” Ron said, his face as red as his hair. 

“Oh, you’re going to fight us, are you?” Malfoy 
sneered. 

“Unless you get out now,” said Harry, more bravely 
than he felt, because Crabbe and Goyle were a lot 
bigger than him or Ron. 

“But we don’t feel like leaving, do we, boys? We’ve 
eaten all our food and you still seem to have some.” 

Goyle reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to 
Ron — Ron leapt forward, but before he’d so much as 
touched Goyle, Goyle let out a horrible yell. 

Scabbers the rat was hanging off his finger, sharp 
little teeth sunk deep into Goyle ’s knuckle — Crabbe 
and Malfoy backed away as Goyle swung Scabbers 
round and round, howling, and when Scabbers finally 
flew off and hit the window, all three of them 
disappeared at once. Perhaps they thought there were 
Page | 122 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps 
they’d heard footsteps, because a second later, 
Hermione Granger had come in. 

“What has been going on?” she said, looking at the 
sweets all over the floor and Ron picking up Scabbers 
by his tail. 

“I think he’s been knocked out,” Ron said to Harry. 

He looked closer at Scabbers. “No — I don’t believe it 
— he’s gone back to sleep.” 

And so he had. 

“You’ve met Malfoy before?” 

Harry explained about their meeting in Diagon Alley. 

“I’ve heard of his family,” said Ron darkly. “They were 
some of the first to come back to our side after You- 
Know-Who disappeared. Said they’d been bewitched. 
My dad doesn’t believe it. He says Malfoy’s father 
didn’t need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side.” He 
turned to Hermione. “Can we help you with 
something?” 

“You’d better hurry up and put your robes on, I’ve 
just been up to the front to ask the conductor, and he 
says we’re nearly there. You haven’t been fighting, 
have you? You’ll be in trouble before we even get 
there!” 

“Scabbers has been fighting, not us,” said Ron, 
scowling at her. “Would you mind leaving while we 
change?” 

“All right — I only came in here because people 
outside are behaving very childishly, racing up and 
down the corridors,” said Hermione in a sniffy voice. 

Page | 123 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“And you’ve got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you 
know?” 



Ron glared at her as she left. Harry peered out of the 
window. It was getting dark. He could see mountains 
and forests under a deep purple sky. The train did 
seem to be slowing down. 

He and Ron took off their jackets and pulled on their 
long black robes. Ron’s were a bit short for him, you 
could see his sneakers underneath them. 

A voice echoed through the train: “We will be reaching 
Hogwarts in five minutes’ time. Please leave your 
luggage on the train, it will be taken to the school 
separately.” 

Harry’s stomach lurched with nerves and Ron, he 
saw, looked pale under his freckles. They crammed 
their pockets with the last of the sweets and joined 
the crowd thronging the corridor. 

The train slowed right down and finally stopped. 
People pushed their way toward the door and out on 
to a tiny, dark platform. Harry shivered in the cold 
night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads 
of the students, and Harry heard a familiar voice: 
“Firs’ years! Firs’ years over here! All right there, 
Harry?” 

Hagrid’s big hairy face beamed over the sea of heads. 

“C’mon, follow me — any more firs’ years? Mind yer 
step, now! Firs’ years follow me!” 

Slipping and stumbling, they followed Hagrid down 
what seemed to be a steep, narrow path. It was so 
dark on either side of them that Harry thought there 
must be thick trees there. Nobody spoke much. 

Page | 124 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Neville, the boy who kept losing his toad, sniffed once 
or twice. 



“Yeh’ll get yer firs’ sight o’ Hogwarts in a sec,” Hagrid 
called over his shoulder, “jus’ round this bend here.” 

There was a loud “Oooooh!” 

The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge 
of a great black lake. Perched atop a high mountain 
on the other side, its windows sparkling in the starry 
sky, was a vast castle with many turrets and towers. 

“No more’n four to a boat!” Hagrid called, pointing to 
a fleet of little boats sitting in the water by the shore. 
Harry and Ron were followed into their boat by Neville 
and Hermione. 

“Everyone in?” shouted Hagrid, who had a boat to 
himself. “Right then — FORWARD!” 

And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once, 
gliding across the lake, which was as smooth as 
glass. Everyone was silent, staring up at the great 
castle overhead. It towered over them as they sailed 
nearer and nearer to the cliff on which it stood. 

“Heads down!” yelled Hagrid as the first boats reached 
the cliff; they all bent their heads and the little boats 
carried them through a curtain of ivy that hid a wide 
opening in the cliff face. They were carried along a 
dark tunnel, which seemed to be taking them right 
underneath the castle, until they reached a kind of 
underground harbor, where they clambered out onto 
rocks and pebbles. 

“Oy, you there! Is this your toad?” said Hagrid, who 
was checking the boats as people climbed out of 
them. 

Page | 125 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Trevor!” cried Neville blissfully, holding out his 
hands. Then they clambered up a passageway in the 
rock after Hagrid’s lamp, coming out at last onto 
smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the castle. 

They walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded 
around the huge, oak front door. 

“Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?” 

Hagrid raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times 
on the castle door. 



Page | 126 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




7 




THE SORTING HAT 

The door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired 
witch in emerald-green robes stood there. She had a 
very stern face and Harry’s first thought was that this 
was not someone to cross. 

“The firs’ years, Professor McGonagall,” said Hagrid. 

“Thank you, Hagrid. I will take them from here.” 

She pulled the door wide. The entrance hall was so 
big you could have fit the whole of the Dursleys’ 
house in it. The stone walls were lit with flaming 
torches like the ones at Gringotts, the ceiling was too 
high to make out, and a magnificent marble staircase 
facing them led to the upper floors. 

They followed Professor McGonagall across the 
flagged stone floor. Harry could hear the drone of 
hundreds of voices from a doorway to the right — the 
rest of the school must already be here — but 
Professor McGonagall showed the first years into a 
small, empty chamber off the hall. They crowded in, 
Page | 127 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 



standing rather closer together than they would 
usually have done, peering about nervously. 

“Welcome to Hogwarts,” said Professor McGonagall. 
“The start-of-term banquet will begin shortly, but 
before you take your seats in the Great Hall, you will 
be sorted into your Houses. The Sorting is a very 
important ceremony because, while you are here, 
your House will be something like your family within 
Hogwarts. You will have classes with the rest of your 
House, sleep in your House dormitory, and spend free 
time in your House common room. 

“The four Houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, 
Ravenclaw, and Slytherin. Each House has its own 
noble history and each has produced outstanding 
witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, your 
triumphs will earn your House points, while any rule- 
breaking will lose House points. At the end of the 
year, the House with the most points is awarded the 
House cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be a 
credit to whichever House becomes yours. 

“The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few 
minutes in front of the rest of the school. I suggest 
you all smarten yourselves up as much as you can 
while you are waiting.” 

Her eyes lingered for a moment on Neville’s cloak, 
which was fastened under his left ear, and on Ron’s 
smudged nose. Harry nervously tried to flatten his 
hair. 

“I shall return when we are ready for you,” said 
Professor McGonagall. “Please wait quietly.” 

She left the chamber. Harry swallowed. 



Page | 128 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“How exactly do they sort us into Houses?” he asked 
Ron. 



“Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but 
I think he was joking.” 

Harry’s heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of 
the whole school? But he didn’t know any magic yet 
— what on earth would he have to do? He hadn’t 
expected something like this the moment they 
arrived. He looked around anxiously and saw that 
everyone else looked terrified, too. No one was talking 
much except Hermione Granger, who was whispering 
very fast about all the spells she’d learned and 
wondering which one she’d need. Harry tried hard not 
to listen to her. He’d never been more nervous, never, 
not even when he’d had to take a school report home 
to the Dursleys saying that he’d somehow turned his 
teachers wig blue. He kept his eyes fixed on the door. 
Any second now, Professor McGonagall would come 
back and lead him to his doom. 

Then something happened that made him jump about 
a foot in the air — several people behind him 
screamed. 

“What the — ?” 

He gasped. So did the people around him. About 
twenty ghosts had just streamed through the back 
wall. Pearly-white and slightly transparent, they 
glided across the room talking to one another and 
hardly glancing at the first years. They seemed to be 
arguing. What looked like a fat little monk was 
saying: “Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give 
him a second chance — ” 

“My dear Friar, haven’t we given Peeves all the 
chances he deserves? He gives us all a bad name and 

Page | 129 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




you know, he’s not really even a ghost — I say, what 
are you all doing here?” 



A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly 
noticed the first years. 

Nobody answered. 

“New students!” said the Fat Friar, smiling around at 
them. “About to be Sorted, I suppose?” 

A few people nodded mutely. 

“Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!” said the Friar. “My old 
House, you know.” 

“Move along now,” said a sharp voice. “The Sorting 
Ceremony’s about to start.” 

Professor McGonagall had returned. One by one, the 
ghosts floated away through the opposite wall. 

“Now, form a line,” Professor McGonagall told the first 
years, “and follow me.” 

Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead, 
Harry got into line behind a boy with sandy hair, with 
Ron behind him, and they walked out of the chamber, 
back across the hall, and through a pair of double 
doors into the Great Hall. 

Harry had never even imagined such a strange and 
splendid place. It was lit by thousands and thousands 
of candles that were floating in midair over four long 
tables, where the rest of the students were sitting. 
These tables were laid with glittering golden plates 
and goblets. At the top of the hall was another long 
table where the teachers were sitting. Professor 
McGonagall led the first years up here, so that they 
Page | 130 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




came to a halt in a line facing the other students, 
with the teachers behind them. The hundreds of faces 
staring at them looked like pale lanterns in the 
flickering candlelight. Dotted here and there among 
the students, the ghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to 
avoid all the staring eyes, Harry looked upward and 
saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars. He heard 
Hermione whisper, “It’s bewitched to look like the sky 
outside. I read about it in Hogwarts, A History.” 

It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all, 
and that the Great Hall didn’t simply open on to the 
heavens. 

Harry quickly looked down again as Professor 
McGonagall silently placed a four-legged stool in front 
of the first years. On top of the stool she put a pointed 
wizard’s hat. This hat was patched and frayed and 
extremely dirty. Aunt Petunia wouldn’t have let it in 
the house. 

Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Harry 
thought wildly, that seemed the sort of thing — 
noticing that everyone in the hall was now staring at 
the hat, he stared at it, too. For a few seconds, there 
was complete silence. Then the hat twitched. A rip 
near the brim opened wide like a mouth — and the 
hat began to sing: 

“Oh, you may not think I’m pretty, 

But don’t judge on what you see, 

I’ll eat myself if you can find 

A smarter hat than me. 

You can keep your bowlers black, 



Page | 131 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Your top hats sleek and tall, 

For I’m the Hogwarts Sorting Hat 
And I can cap them all. 

There’s nothing hidden in your head 
The Sorting Hat can’t see, 

So try me on and I will tell you 
Where you ought to be. 

You might belong in Gryffindor, 

Where dwell the brave at heart, 

Their daring, nerve, and chivalry 
Set Gryffindors apart; 

You might belong in Hufflepuff, 

Where they are just and loyal, 

Those patient Hufflepuffs are true 
And unafraid of toil; 

Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw, 

If you’ve a ready mind, 

Where those of wit and learning, 

Will always find their kind; 

Or perhaps in Slytherin 

Page | 132 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




You’ll make your real friends, 

Those cunning folk use any means 
To achieve their ends. 

So put me on! Don’t be afraid l\ 

And don’t get in a flap\ 

You’re in safe hands (though I have none) 

For I’m a Thinking Cap\” 

The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished 
its song. It bowed to each of the four tables and then 
became quite still again. 

“So we’ve just got to try on the hat!” Ron whispered to 
Harry. “I’ll kill Fred, he was going on about wrestling 
a troll.” 

Harry smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot 
better than having to do a spell, but he did wish they 
could have tried it on without everyone watching. The 
hat seemed to be asking rather a lot; Harry didn’t feel 
brave or quick-witted or any of it at the moment. If 
only the hat had mentioned a House for people who 
felt a bit queasy, that would have been the one for 
him. 

Professor McGonagall now stepped forward holding a 
long roll of parchment. 

“When I call your name, you will put on the hat and 
sit on the stool to be sorted,” she said. “Abbott, 
Hannah!” 



Page | 133 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of 
line, put on the hat, which fell right down over her 
eyes, and sat down. A moment’s pause — 

“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat. 

The table on the right cheered and clapped as 
Hannah went to sit down at the Hufflepuff table. 

Harry saw the ghost of the Fat Friar waving merrily at 
her. 

“Bones, Susan!” 

“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat again, and Susan 
scuttled off to sit next to Hannah. 

“Boot, Terry!” 

“RAVENCLAW!” 

The table second from the left clapped this time; 
several Ravenclaws stood up to shake hands with 
Terry as he joined them. 

“Brocklehurst, Mandy” went to Ravenclaw too, but 
“Brown, Lavender” became the first new Gryffindor, 
and the table on the far left exploded with cheers; 
Harry could see Ron’s twin brothers catcalling. 

“Bulstrode, Millicent” then became a Slytherin. 
Perhaps it was Harry’s imagination, after all he’d 
heard about Slytherin, but he thought they looked 
like an unpleasant lot. 

He was starting to feel definitely sick now. He 
remembered being picked for teams during gym at his 
old school. He had always been last to be chosen, not 
because he was no good, but because no one wanted 
Dudley to think they liked him. 

Page | 134 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Finch-Fletchley, Justin!” 



“HUFFLEPUFF!” 

Sometimes, Harry noticed, the hat shouted out the 
House at once, but at others it took a little while to 
decide. “Finnigan, Seamus,” the sandy-haired boy 
next to Harry in the line, sat on the stool for almost a 
whole minute before the hat declared him a 
Gryffindor. 

“Granger, Hermione!” 

Hermione almost ran to the stool and jammed the hat 
eagerly on her head. 

“GRYFFINDOR!” shouted the hat. Ron groaned. 

A horrible thought struck Harry, as horrible thoughts 
always do when you’re very nervous. What if he 
wasn’t chosen at all? What if he just sat there with 
the hat over his eyes for ages, until Professor 
McGonagall jerked it off his head and said there had 
obviously been a mistake and he’d better get back on 
the train? 

When Neville Longbottom, the boy who kept losing his 
toad, was called, he fell over on his way to the stool. 
The hat took a long time to decide with Neville. When 
it finally shouted, “GRYFFINDOR,” Neville ran off still 
wearing it, and had to jog back amid gales of laughter 
to give it to “MacDougal, Morag.” 

Malfoy swaggered forward when his name was called 
and got his wish at once: the hat had barely touched 
his head when it screamed, “SLYTHERIN!” 

Malfoy went to join his friends Crabbe and Goyle, 
looking pleased with himself. 

Page | 135 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




There weren’t many people left now. 



“Moon” , “Nott” ... , “Parkinson” ... , then a pair of 
twin girls, “Path” and “Path” ... , then “Perks, Sally- 
Anne” . . . , and then, at last — 

“Potter, Harry!” 

As Harry stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke 
out like little hissing fires all over the hall. 

“ Potter , did she say?” 

“ The Harry Potter?” 

The last thing Harry saw before the hat dropped over 
his eyes was the hall full of people craning to get a 
good look at him. Next second he was looking at the 
black inside of the hat. He waited. 

“Hmm,” said a small voice in his ear. “Difficult. Very 
difficult. Plenty of courage, I see. Not a bad mind 
either. There’s talent, oh my goodness, yes — and a 
nice thirst to prove yourself, now that’s interesting. ... 
So where shall I put you?” 

Harry gripped the edges of the stool and thought, Not 
Slytherin, not Slytherin. 

“Not Slytherin, eh?” said the small voice. “Are you 
sure? You could be great, you know, it’s all here in 
your head, and Slytherin will help you on the way to 
greatness, no doubt about that — no? Well, if you’re 
sure — better be GRYFFINDOR!” 

Harry heard the hat shout the last word to the whole 
hall. He took off the hat and walked shakily toward 
the Gryffindor table. He was so relieved to have been 
chosen and not put in Slytherin, he hardly noticed 

Page | 136 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




that he was getting the loudest cheer yet. Percy the 
Prefect got up and shook his hand vigorously, while 
the Weasley twins yelled, “We got Potter! We got 
Potter!” Harry sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff 
he’d seen earlier. The ghost patted his arm, giving 
Harry the sudden, horrible feeling he’d just plunged it 
into a bucket of ice-cold water. 

He could see the High Table properly now. At the end 
nearest him sat Hagrid, who caught his eye and gave 
him the thumbs up. Harry grinned back. And there, 
in the center of the High Table, in a large gold chair, 
sat Albus Dumbledore. Harry recognized him at once 
from the card he’d gotten out of the Chocolate Frog on 
the train. Dumbledore’s silver hair was the only thing 
in the whole hall that shone as brightly as the ghosts. 
Harry spotted Professor Quirrell, too, the nervous 
young man from the Leaky Cauldron. He was looking 
very peculiar in a large purple turban. 

And now there were only four people left to be sorted. 
“Thomas, Dean,” a Black boy even taller than Ron, 
joined Harry at the Gryffindor table. “Turpin, Lisa,” 
became a Ravenclaw and then it was Ron’s turn. He 
was pale green by now. Harry crossed his fingers 
under the table and a second later the hat had 
shouted, “GRYFFINDOR!” 

Harry clapped loudly with the rest as Ron collapsed 
into the chair next to him. 

“Well done, Ron, excellent,” said Percy Weasley 
pompously across Harry as “Zabini, Blaise,” was 
made a Slytherin. Professor McGonagall rolled up her 
scroll and took the Sorting Hat away. 

Harry looked down at his empty gold plate. He had 
only just realized how hungry he was. The pumpkin 
pasties seemed ages ago. 

Page | 137 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Albus Dumbledore had gotten to his feet. He was 
beaming at the students, his arms opened wide, as if 
nothing could have pleased him more than to see 
them all there. 
