
Harry. . . It might even be painless. . . I would not 
know... I have never died...” 

He was never going to see Ron and Hermione again — 

And their faces burst clearly into his mind as he 
fought for breath — 

“EXPECTO PATRONUM” 

An enormous silver stag erupted from the tip of 
Harry’s wand; its antlers caught the dementor in the 
place where the heart should have been; it was 
thrown backward, weightless as darkness, and as the 
stag charged, the dementor swooped away, batlike 
and defeated. 

“THIS WAY!” Harry shouted at the stag. Wheeling 
around, he sprinted down the alleyway, holding the lit 
wand aloft. “DUDLEY? DUDLEY!” 

He had run barely a dozen steps when he reached 
them: Dudley was curled on the ground, his arms 
clamped over his face; a second dementor was 
crouching low over him, gripping his wrists in its 
slimy hands, prizing them slowly, almost lovingly 
apart, lowering its hooded head toward Dudley’s face 
as though about to kiss him... 

“GET IT!” Harry bellowed, and with a rushing, roaring 
sound, the silver stag he had conjured came galloping 
back past him. The dementor’s eyeless face was 

Page | 24 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




barely an inch from Dudley’s when the silver antlers 
caught it; the thing was thrown up into the air and, 
like its fellow, it soared away and was absorbed into 
the darkness. The stag cantered to the end of the 
alleyway and dissolved into silver mist. 

Moon, stars, and streetlamps burst back into life. A 
warm breeze swept the alleyway. Trees rustled in 
neighboring gardens and the mundane rumble of cars 
in Magnolia Crescent filled the air again. Harry stood 
quite still, all his senses vibrating, taking in the 
abrupt return to normality. After a moment he 
became aware that his T-shirt was sticking to him; he 
was drenched in sweat. 

He could not believe what had just happened. 
Dementors here, in Little Whinging . . . 

Dudley lay curled up on the ground, whimpering and 
shaking. Harry bent down to see whether he was in a 
fit state to stand up, but then heard loud, running 
footsteps behind him; instinctively raising his wand 
again, he spun on his heel to face the newcomer. 

Mrs. Figg, their batty old neighbor, came panting into 
sight. Her grizzled gray hair was escaping from its 
hairnet, a clanking string shopping bag was swinging 
from her wrist, and her feet were halfway out of her 
tartan carpet slippers. Harry made to stow his wand 
hurriedly out of sight, but — 

“Don’t put it away, idiot boy!” she shrieked. “What if 
there are more of them around? Oh, I’m going to kill 
Mundungus Fletcher!” 



Page | 25 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





A PECK OF OWLS 

“What?” said Harry blankly. 

“He left!” said Mrs. Figg, wringing her hands. “Left to 
see someone about a batch of cauldrons that fell off 
the back of a broom! I told him I’d flay him alive if he 
went, and now look! Dementors! It’s just lucky I put 
Mr. Tibbies on the case! But we haven’t got time to 
stand around! Hurry, now, we’ve got to get you back! 
Oh, the trouble this is going to cause! I will kill him!” 

“But — ” 

The revelation that his batty old cat-obsessed 
neighbor knew what dementors were was almost as 
big a shock to Harry as meeting two of them down the 
alleyway. “You’re — you’re a witch?” 

“I’m a Squib, as Mundungus knows full well, so how 
on earth was I supposed to help you fight off 
dementors? He left you completely without cover 
when I warned him — ” 



Page | 26 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“This bloke Mundungus has been following me? Hang 
on — it was him). He Disapparated from the front of 
my house!” 

“Yes, yes, yes, but luckily I’d stationed Mr. Tibbies 
under a car just in case, and Mr. Tibbies came and 
warned me, but by the time I got to your house you’d 
gone — and now — oh, what’s Dumbledore going to 
say? You!” she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the 
alley floor. “Get your fat bottom off the ground, 
quick!” 

“You know Dumbledore?” said Harry, staring at her. 

“Of course I know Dumbledore, who doesn’t know 
Dumbledore? But come on — I’ll be no help if they 
come back, I’ve never so much as Transfigured a 
teabag — ” 

She stooped down, seized one of Dudley’s massive 
arms in her wizened hands, and tugged. 

“Get up, you useless lump, get up!” 

But Dudley either could not or would not move. He 
was still on the ground, trembling and ashen-faced, 
his mouth shut very tight. 

“I’ll do it.” Harry took hold of Dudley’s arm and 
heaved: With an enormous effort he managed to hoist 
Dudley to his feet. Dudley seemed to be on the point 
of fainting: His small eyes were rolling in their sockets 
and sweat was beading his face; the moment Harry let 
go of him he swayed dangerously. 

“Hurry up!” said Mrs. Figg hysterically. 

Harry pulled one of Dudley’s massive arms around 
his own shoulders and dragged him toward the road, 

Page | 27 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




sagging slightly under his weight. Mrs. Figg tottered 
along in front of them, peering anxiously around the 
corner. 

“Keep your wand out,” she told Harry, as they entered 
Wisteria Walk. “Never mind the Statute of Secrecy 
now, there’s going to be hell to pay anyway, we might 
as well be hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk about 
the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery ... 
This was exactly what Dumbledore was afraid of — 
what’s that at the end of the street? Oh, it’s just Mr. 
Prentice... Don’t put your wand away, boy, don’t I 
keep telling you I’m no use?” 

It was not easy to hold a wand steady and carry 
Dudley along at the same time. Harry gave his cousin 
an impatient dig in the ribs, but Dudley seemed to 
have lost all desire for independent movement. He 
was slumped on Harry’s shoulder, his large feet 
dragging along the ground. 

“Why didn’t you tell me you’re a Squib?” Harry asked 
Mrs. Figg, panting with the effort to keep walking. “All 
those times I came round your house — why didn’t 
you say anything?” 

“Dumbledore ’s orders. I was to keep an eye on you 
but not say anything, you were too young. I’m sorry I 
gave you such a miserable time, but the Dursleys 
would never have let you come if they’d thought you 
enjoyed it. It wasn’t easy, you know... But oh my 
word,” she said tragically, wringing her hands once 
more, “when Dumbledore hears about this — how 
could Mundungus have left, he was supposed to be 
on duty until midnight — where is he? How am I 
going to tell Dumbledore what’s happened, I can’t 
Apparate — ” 



Page | 28 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ve got an owl, you can borrow her,” Harry groaned, 
wondering whether his spine was going to snap under 
Dudley’s weight. 

“Harry, you don’t understand! Dumbledore will need 
to act as quickly as possible, the Ministry have their 
own ways of detecting underage magic, they’ll know 
already, you mark my words — ” 

“But I was getting rid of dementors, I had to use 
magic — they’re going to be more worried what 
dementors were doing floating around Wisteria Walk, 
surely?” 

“Oh my dear, I wish it were so but I’m afraid — 
MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO KILL 
YOU!” 

There was a loud crack and a strong smell of mingled 
drink and stale tobacco filled the air as a squat, 
unshaven man in a tattered overcoat materialized 
right in front of them. He had short bandy legs, long 
straggly ginger hair, and bloodshot baggy eyes that 
gave him the doleful look of a basset hound; he was 
also clutching a silvery bundle that Harry recognized 
at once as an Invisibility Cloak. 

“ ’S’ up, Figgy?” he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to 
Harry and Dudley. “What ’appened to staying 
undercover?” 

“I’ll give you undercover!” cried Mrs. Figg. “Dementors, 
you useless, skiving sneak thief!” 

“Dementors?” repeated Mundungus, aghast. 
“Dementors here?” 



Page | 29 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!” 
shrieked Mrs. Figg. “Dementors attacking the boy on 
your watch!” 

“Blimey,” said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. 
Figg to Harry and back again. “Blimey, I ...” 

“And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn’t I tell you 
not to go? Didn’t i?” 

“I — well, I — ” Mundungus looked deeply 
uncomfortable. “It ... it was a very good business 
opportunity, see ...” 

Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag 
dangled and whacked Mundungus around the face 
and neck with it; judging by the clanking noise it 
made it was full of cat food. 

“Ouch — gerroff — gerroff, you mad old bat! 

Someone’s gotta tell Dumbledore!” 

“Yes — they — have!” yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging 
the bag of cat food at every bit of Mundungus she 
could reach. “And — it — had — better — be — you — 
and — you — can — tell — him — why — you — 
weren’t — there — to — help!” 

“Keep your ’airnet on!” said Mundungus, his arms 
over his head, cowering. “I’m going, I’m going!” 

And with another loud crack, he vanished. 

“I hope Dumbledore murders him!” said Mrs. Figg 
furiously. “Now come on, Harry, what are you waiting 
for?” 

Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on 
pointing out that he could barely walk under Dudley’s 

Page | 30 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




bulk. He gave the semiconscious Dudley a heave and 
staggered onward. 

“I’ll take you to the door,” said Mrs. Figg, as they 
turned into Privet Drive. “Just in case there are more 
of them around... Oh my word, what a catastrophe ... 
and you had to fight them off yourself . . . and 
Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing 
magic at all costs... Well, it’s no good crying over 
spilled potion, I suppose ... but the cat’s among the 
pixies now ...” 

“So,” Harry panted, “Dumbledore ’s ... been having ... 
me followed?” 

“Of course he has,” said Mrs. Figg impatiently. “Did 
you expect him to let you wander around on your own 
after what happened in June? Good Lord, boy, they 
told me you were intelligent... Right ... get inside and 
stay there,” she said as they reached number four. “I 
expect someone will be in touch with you soon 
enough.” 

“What are you going to do?” asked Harry quickly. 

“I’m going straight home,” said Mrs. Figg, staring 
around the dark street and shuddering. “I’ll need to 
wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house. 
Good night.” 

“Hang on, don’t go yet! I want to know — ” 

But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet 
slippers flopping, string bag clanking. 

“Wait!” Harry shouted after her; he had a million 
questions to ask anyone who was in contact with 
Dumbledore; but within seconds Mrs. Figg was 
swallowed by the darkness. Scowling, Harry 

Page | 31 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




readjusted Dudley on his shoulder and made his 
slow, painful way up number four’s garden path. 

The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back 
inside the waistband of his jeans, rang the bell, and 
watched Aunt Petunia’s outline grow larger and 
larger, oddly distorted by the rippling glass in the 
front door. 

“Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite — quite — 
Diddy, what’s the matter?” 

Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out 
from under his arm just in time. Dudley swayed for a 
moment on the spot, his face pale green, then he 
opened his mouth at last and vomited all over the 
doormat. 

“DIDDY! Diddy, what’s the matter with you? Vernon? 
VERNON!” 

Harry’s uncle came galumphing out of the living 
room, walrus mustache blowing hither and thither as 
it always did when he was agitated. He hurried 
forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed 
Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in 
the pool of sick. 

“He’s ill, Vernon!” 

“What is it, son? What’s happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss 
give you something foreign for tea?” 

“Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you 
been lying on the ground?” 

“Hang on — you haven’t been mugged, have you, 
son?” 



Page | 32 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Aunt Petunia screamed. 



“Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, 
darling, speak to Mummy! What did they do to you?” 

In all the kerfuffle, nobody seemed to have noticed 
Harry, which suited him perfectly. He managed to slip 
inside just before Uncle Vernon slammed the door 
and while the Dursleys made their noisy progress 
down the hall toward the kitchen, Harry moved 
carefully and quietly toward the stairs. 

“Who did it, son? Give us names. Well get them, don’t 
worry.” 

“Shh! He’s trying to say something, Vernon! What is 
it, Diddy? Tell Mummy!” 

Harry’s foot was on the bottommost stair when 
Dudley found his voice. 

“Him” 

Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced 
for the explosion. 

“BOY! COME HERE!” 

With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry 
removed his foot slowly from the stair and turned to 
follow the Dursleys. 

The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal 
glitter after the darkness outside. Aunt Petunia was 
ushering Dudley into a chair; he was still very green 
and clammy looking. Uncle Vernon was standing in 
front of the draining board, glaring at Harry through 
tiny, narrowed eyes. 



Page | 33 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What have you done to my son?” he said in a 
menacing growl. 



“Nothing,” said Harry, knowing perfectly well that 
Uncle Vernon wouldn’t believe him. 

“What did he do to you, Diddy?” Aunt Petunia said in 
a quavering voice, now sponging sick from the front of 
Dudley’s leather jacket. “Was it — was it you-know- 
what, darling? Did he use — his thing?” 

Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded. 

“I didn’t!” Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out 
a wail and Uncle Vernon raised his fists. “I didn’t do 
anything to him, it wasn’t me, it was — ” 

But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in 
through the kitchen window. Narrowly missing the 
top of Uncle Vernon’s head, it soared across the 
kitchen, dropped the large parchment envelope it was 
carrying in its beak at Harry’s feet, and turned 
gracefully, the tips of its wings just brushing the top 
of the fridge, then zoomed outside again and off 
across the garden. 

“OWLS!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in 
his temple pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen 
window shut. “OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY 
MORE OWLS IN MY HOUSE!” 

But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and 
pulling out the letter inside, his heart pounding 
somewhere in the region of his Adam’s apple. 

Dear Mr. Potter, 

We have received intelligence that you performed the 
Patronus Charm at twenty-three minutes past nine this 

Page | 34 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




evening in a Muggle-inhabited area and in the 
presence of a Muggle. 

The severity of this breach of the Decree for the 
Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery has 
resulted in your expulsion from Hog warts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry. Ministry representatives will 
be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy 
your wand. 

As you have already received an official warning for a 
previous offense under section 13 of the International 
Confederation of Wizards’ Statute of Secrecy, we regret 
to inform you that your presence is required at a 
disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic at 9 a. m. 
on August 12th. 

Hoping you are well, 

Yours sincerely, 

Mafalda Hopkirk 

IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE 
Ministry of Magic 

Harry read the letter through twice. He was only 
vaguely aware of Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia 
talking in the vicinity. Inside his head, all was icy and 
numb. One fact had penetrated his consciousness 
like a paralyzing dart. He was expelled from 
Hogwarts. It was all over. He was never going back. 

He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was 
purple-faced, shouting, his fists still raised; Aunt 
Petunia had her arms around Dudley, who was 
retching again. 



Page | 35 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s temporarily stupefied brain seemed to 
reawaken. Ministry representatives will be calling at 
your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand. 
There was only one thing for it. He would have to run 
— now. Where he was going to go, Harry didn’t know, 
but he was certain of one thing: At Hogwarts or 
outside it, he needed his wand. In an almost 
dreamlike state, he pulled his wand out and turned to 
leave the kitchen. 

“Where d’you think you’re going?” yelled Uncle 
Vernon. When Harry didn’t reply, he pounded across 
the kitchen to block the doorway into the hall. “I 
haven’t finished with you, boy!” 

“Get out of the way,” said Harry quietly. 

“You’re going to stay here and explain how my son — ” 

“If you don’t get out of the way I’m going to jinx you,” 
said Harry, raising the wand. 

“You can’t pull that one on me!” snarled Uncle 
Vernon. “I know you’re not allowed to use it outside 
that madhouse you call a school!” 

“The madhouse has chucked me out,” said Harry. “So 
I can do whatever I like. You’ve got three seconds. 

One — two — ” 

A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen; Aunt Petunia 
screamed, Uncle Vernon yelled and ducked, but for 
the third time that night Harry was staring for the 
source of a disturbance he had not made. He spotted 
it at once: A dazed and ruffled-looking barn owl was 
sitting outside on the kitchen sill, having just collided 
with the closed window. 



Page | 36 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ignoring Uncle Vernon’s anguished yell of “OWLS!” 
Harry crossed the room at a run and wrenched the 
window open again. The owl stuck out its leg, to 
which a small roll of parchment was tied, shook its 
feathers, and took off the moment Harry had pulled 
off the letter. Hands shaking, Harry unfurled the 
second message, which was written very hastily and 
blotchily in black ink. 

Harry — 

Dumbledore’s just arrived at the Ministry, and he’s 
trying to sort it all out. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT 
AND UNCLE’S HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANYMORE 
MAGIC. DO NOT SURRENDER YOUR WAND. 

Arthur Weasley 

Dumbledore was trying to sort it all out... What did 
that mean? How much power did Dumbledore have to 
override the Ministry of Magic? Was there a chance 
that he might be allowed back to Hogwarts, then? A 
small shoot of hope burgeoned in Harry’s chest, 
almost immediately strangled by panic — how was he 
supposed to refuse to surrender his wand without 
doing magic? He’d have to duel with the Ministry 
representatives, and if he did that, he’d be lucky to 
escape Azkaban, let alone expulsion. 

His mind was racing. . . He could run for it and risk 
being captured by the Ministry, or stay put and wait 
for them to find him here. He was much more 
tempted by the former course, but he knew that Mr. 
Weasley had his best interests at heart ... and, after 
all, Dumbledore had sorted out much worse than this 
before... 

“Right,” Harry said, “I’ve changed my mind, I’m 
staying.” 

Page | 37 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




He flung himself down at the kitchen table and faced 
Dudley and Aunt Petunia. The Dursleys appeared 
taken aback at his abrupt change of mind. Aunt 
Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon. The 
vein in Uncle Vernon’s purple temple was throbbing 
worse than ever. 

“Who are all these ruddy owls from?” he growled. 

“The first one was from the Ministry of Magic, 
expelling me,” said Harry calmly; he was straining his 
ears to catch noises outside in case the Ministry 
representatives were approaching, and it was easier 
and quieter to answer Uncle Vernon’s questions than 
to have him start raging and bellowing. “The second 
one was from my friend Ron’s dad, he works at the 
Ministry.” 

“Ministry of Magic?” bellowed Uncle Vernon. “People 
like you in government? Oh this explains everything, 
everything, no wonder the country’s going to the 
dogs...” 

When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at 
him, then spat, “And why have you been expelled?” 

“Because I did magic.” 

“AHA!” roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down 
on the top of the fridge, which sprang open; several of 
Dudley’s low-fat snacks toppled out and burst on the 
floor. “So you admit it! What did you do to Dudley?” 

“Nothing,” said Harry, slightly less calmly. “That 
wasn’t me — ” 

“Was,” muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle 
Vernon and Aunt Petunia instantly made flapping 



Page | 38 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




gestures at Harry to quiet him while they both bent 
low over Dudley. 

“Go on, son,” said Uncle Vernon, “what did he do?” 

“Tell us, darling,” whispered Aunt Petunia. 

“Pointed his wand at me,” Dudley mumbled. 

“Yeah, I did, but I didn’t use — ” Harry began angrily, 
but ... 

“SHUT UP!” roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in 
unison. “Go on, son,” repeated Uncle Vernon, 
mustache blowing about furiously. 

“All dark,” Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. 
“Everything dark. And then I h-heard . . . things. Inside 
m-my head ...” 

Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of 
utter horror. If their least favorite thing in the world 
was magic, closely followed by neighbors who cheated 
more than they did on the hosepipe ban, people who 
heard voices were definitely in the bottom ten. They 
obviously thought Dudley was losing his mind. 

“What sort of things did you hear, popkin?” breathed 
Aunt Petunia, very white-faced and with tears in her 
eyes. 

But Dudley seemed incapable of saying. He 
shuddered again and shook his large blond head, and 
despite the sense of numb dread that had settled on 
Harry since the arrival of the first owl, he felt a 
certain curiosity. Dementors caused a person to relive 
the worst moments of their life... What would spoiled, 
pampered, bullying Dudley have been forced to hear? 



Page | 39 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“How come you fell over, son?” said Uncle Vernon in 
an unnaturally quiet voice, the kind of voice he would 
adopt at the bedside of a very ill person. 

“T-tripped,” said Dudley shakily. “And then — ” 

He gestured at his massive chest. Harry understood: 
Dudley was remembering the clammy cold that filled 
the lungs as hope and happiness were sucked out of 
you. 

“Horrible,” croaked Dudley. “Cold. Really cold.” 

“Okay,” said Uncle Vernon in a voice of forced calm, 
while Aunt Petunia laid an anxious hand on Dudley’s 
forehead to feel his temperature. “What happened 
then, Dudders?” 

“Felt ... felt ... felt ... as if... as if ...” 

“As if you’d never be happy again,” Harry supplied 
tonelessly. 

“Yes,” Dudley whispered, still trembling. 

“So,” said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and 
considerable volume as he straightened up. “So you 
put some crackpot spell on my son so he’d hear 
voices and believe he was — was doomed to misery, 
or something, did you?” 

“How many times do I have to tell you?” said Harry, 
temper and voice rising together. “It wasn’t me\ It was 
a couple of dementors!” 

“A couple of — what’s this codswallop?” 

“De — men — tors,” said Harry slowly and clearly. 
“Two of them.” 

Page | 40 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“And what the ruddy hell are dementors?” 



“They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban,” said Aunt 
Petunia. 

Two seconds’ ringing silence followed these words and 
then Aunt Petunia clapped her hand over her mouth 
as though she had let slip a disgusting swear word. 
Uncle Vernon was goggling at her. Harry’s brain 
reeled. Mrs. Figg was one thing — but Aunt Petunia? 

“How d’you know that?” he asked her, astonished. 

Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself. She 
glanced at Uncle Vernon in fearful apology, then 
lowered her hand slightly to reveal her horsey teeth. 

“I heard — that awful boy — telling her about them — 
years ago,” she said jerkily. 

“If you mean my mum and dad, why don’t you use 
their names?” said Harry loudly, but Aunt Petunia 
ignored him. She seemed horribly flustered. 

Harry was stunned. Except for one outburst years 
ago, in the course of which Aunt Petunia had 
screamed that Harry’s mother had been a freak, he 
had never heard her mention her sister. He was 
astounded that she had remembered this scrap of 
information about the magical world for so long, when 
she usually put all her energies into pretending it 
didn’t exist. 

Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, 
opened it once more, shut it, then, apparently 
struggling to remember how to talk, opened it for a 
third time and croaked, “So — so — they — er — they 
— er — they actually exist, do they — er — dementy- 
whatsits?” 

Page | 41 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




Aunt Petunia nodded. 



Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to 
Harry as if hoping somebody was going to shout 
“April Fool!” When nobody did, he opened his mouth 
yet again, but was spared the struggle to find more 
words by the arrival of the third owl of the evening, 
which zoomed through the still-open window like a 
feathery cannonball and landed with a clatter on the 
kitchen table, causing all three of the Dursleys to 
jump with fright. Harry tore a second official-looking 
envelope from the owl’s beak and ripped it open as 
the owl swooped back out into the night. 

“Enough — effing — owls ...” muttered Uncle Vernon 
distractedly, stomping over to the window and 
slamming it shut again. 

Dear Mr. Potter, 

Further to our letter of approximately twenty-two 
minutes ago, the Ministry of Magic has revised its 
decision to destroy your wand forthwith. You may 
retain your wand until your disciplinary hearing on 
12th August, at which time an official decision will be 
taken. 

Following discussions with the Headmaster of 
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, the 
Ministry has agreed that the question of your expulsion 
will also be decided at that time. You should therefore 
consider yourself suspended from school pending 
further inquiries. 

With best wishes, 

Yours sincerely, 

Mafalda Hopkirk 

Page | 42 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE 



Ministry of Magic 

Harry read this letter through three times in quick 
succession. The miserable knot in his chest loosened 
slightly at the thought that he was not definitely 
expelled, though his fears were by no means 
banished. Everything seemed to hang on this hearing 
on the twelfth of August. 

“Well?” said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his 
surroundings. “What now? Have they sentenced you 
to anything? Do your lot have the death penalty?” he 
added as a hopeful afterthought. 

“I’ve got to go to a hearing,” said Harry. 

“And they’ll sentence you there?” 

“I suppose so.” 

“I won’t give up hope, then,” said Uncle Vernon 
nastily. 

“Well, if that’s all,” said Harry, getting to his feet. He 
was desperate to be alone, to think, perhaps to send a 
letter to Ron, Hermione, or Sirius. 

“NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL!” bellowed Uncle 
Vernon. “SIT BACK DOWN!” 

“What now?” said Harry impatiently. 

“DUDLEY!” roared Uncle Vernon. “I want to know 
exactly what happened to my son!” 

“FINE!” yelled Harry, and in his temper, red and gold 
sparks shot out of the end of his wand, still clutched 

Page | 43 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




in his hand. All three Dursleys flinched, looking 
terrified. 

“Dudley and I were in the alleyway between Magnolia 
Crescent and Wisteria Walk,” said Harry, speaking 
fast, fighting to control his temper. “Dudley thought 
he’d be smart with me, I pulled out my wand but 
didn’t use it. Then two dementors turned up — ” 

“But what ARE dementoids?” asked Uncle Vernon 
furiously. “What do they DO?” 

“I told you — they suck all the happiness out of you,” 
said Harry, “and if they get the chance, they kiss you 



“Kiss you?” said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping 
slightly. “Kiss you?” 

“It’s what they call it when they suck the soul out of 
your mouth.” 

Aunt Petunia uttered a soft scream. 

“His soul? They didn’t take — he’s still got his — ” 

She seized Dudley by the shoulders and shook him, 
as though testing to see whether she could hear his 
soul rattling around inside him. 

“Of course they didn’t get his soul, you’d know if they 
had,” said Harry, exasperated. 

“Fought ’em off, did you, son?” said Uncle Vernon 
loudly, with the appearance of a man struggling to 
bring the conversation back onto a plane he 
understood. “Gave ’em the old one-two, did you?” 



Page | 44 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“You can’t give a dementor the old one-two,” said 
Harry through clenched teeth. 

“Why’s he all right, then?” blustered Uncle Vernon. 
“Why isn’t he all empty, then?” 

“Because I used the Patronus — ” 

WHOOSH. With a clattering, a whirring of wings, and 
a soft fall of dust, a fourth owl came shooting out of 
the kitchen fireplace. 

“FOR GOD’S SAKE!” roared Uncle Vernon, pulling 
great clumps of hair out of his mustache, something 
he hadn’t been driven to in a long time. “I WILL NOT 
HAVE OWLS HERE, I WILL NOT TOLERATE THIS, I 
TELL YOU!” 

But Harry was already pulling a roll of parchment 
from the owl’s leg. He was so convinced that this 
letter had to be from Dumbledore, explaining 
everything — the dementors, Mrs. Figg, what the 
Ministry was up to, how he, Dumbledore, intended to 
sort everything out — that for the first time in his life 
he was disappointed to see Sirius’s handwriting. 
Ignoring Uncle Vernon’s ongoing rant about owls and 
narrowing his eyes against a second cloud of dust as 
the most recent owl took off back up the chimney, 
Harry read Sirius’s message. 

Arthur’s just told us what’s happened. 

Don’t leave the house again, whatever you do. 

Harry found this such an inadequate response to 
everything that had happened tonight that he turned 
the piece of parchment over, looking for the rest of the 
letter, but there was nothing there. 



Page | 45 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




And now his temper was rising again. Wasn’t 
anybody going to say “well done” for fighting off two 
dementors single-handedly? Both Mr. Weasley and 
Sirius were acting as though he’d misbehaved and 
they were saving their tellings-off until they could 
ascertain how much damage had been done. 

“ — a peck, I mean, pack of owls shooting in and out 
of my house and I won’t have it, boy, I won’t — ” 

“I can’t stop the owls coming,” Harry snapped, 
crushing Sirius’s letter in his fist. 

“I want the truth about what happened tonight!” 
barked Uncle Vernon. “If it was demenders who hurt 
Dudley, how come you’ve been expelled? You did you- 
