      June and he would take this encounter, for it was shrewdly
      suspected, if not quite known, that they had not met since that
      old and lamentable affair of her fiance Bosinney with Soames’
      wife. They were seen to just touch each other’s hands, and look
      each at the other’s left eye only. Aunt Juley came at once to the
      rescue:

      “Dear June is so original. Fancy, Soames, she thinks the Boers
      are not to blame.”

      “They only want their independence,” said June; “and why
      shouldn’t they have it?”

      “Because,” answered Soames, with his smile a little on one side,
      “they happen to have agreed to our suzerainty.”

      “Suzerainty!” repeated June scornfully; “we shouldn’t like
      anyone’s suzerainty over us.”

      “They got advantages in payment,” replied Soames; “a contract is
      a contract.”

      “Contracts are not always just,” fumed out June, “and when
      they’re not, they ought to be broken. The Boers are much the
      weaker. We could afford to be generous.”

      Soames sniffed. “That’s mere sentiment,” he said.

      Aunt Hester, to whom nothing was more awful than any kind of
      disagreement, here leaned forward and remarked decisively:

      “What lovely weather it has been for the time of year?”

      But June was not to be diverted.

      “I don’t know why sentiment should be sneered at. It’s the best
      thing in the world.” She looked defiantly round, and Aunt Juley
      had to intervene again:

      “Have you bought any pictures lately, Soames?”

      Her incomparable instinct for the wrong subject had not failed
      her. Soames flushed. To disclose the name of his latest purchases
      would be like walking into the jaws of disdain. For somehow they
      all knew of June’s predilection for “genius” not yet on its legs,
      and her contempt for “success” unless she had had a finger in
      securing it.

      “One or two,” he muttered.

      But June’s face had changed; the Forsyte within her was seeing
      its chance. Why should not Soames buy some of the pictures of
      Eric Cobbley—her last lame duck? And she promptly opened her
      attack: Did Soames know his work? It was so wonderful. He was the
      coming man.

      Oh, yes, Soames knew his work. It was in his view “splashy,” and
      would never get hold of the public.

      June blazed up.

      “Of course it won’t; that’s the last thing one would wish for. I
      thought you were a connoisseur, not a picture-dealer.”

      “Of course Soames is a connoisseur,” Aunt Juley said hastily; “he
      has wonderful taste—he can always tell beforehand what’s going to
      be successful.”

      “Oh!” gasped June, and sprang up from the bead-covered chair, “I
      hate that standard of success. Why can’t people buy things
      because they like them?”

      “You mean,” said Francie, “because _you_ like them.”

      And in the slight pause young Nicholas was heard saying gently
      that Violet (his fourth) was taking lessons in pastel, he didn’t
      know if they were any use.

      “Well, good-bye, Auntie,” said June; “I must get on,” and kissing
      her aunts, she looked defiantly round the room, said “Good-bye”
      again, and went. A breeze seemed to pass out with her, as if
      everyone had sighed.

      The third sensation came before anyone had time to speak:

      “Mr. James Forsyte.”

      James came in using a stick slightly and wrapped in a fur coat
      which gave him a fictitious bulk.

      Everyone stood up. James was so old; and he had not been at
      Timothy’s for nearly two years.

      “It’s hot in here,” he said.

      Soames divested him of his coat, and as he did so could not help
      admiring the glossy way his father was turned out. James sat
      down, all knees, elbows, frock-coat, and long white whiskers.

      “What’s the meaning of that?” he said.

      Though there was no apparent sense in his words, they all knew
      that he was referring to June. His eyes searched his son’s face.

      “I thought I’d come and see for myself. What have they answered
      Kruger?”

      Soames took out an evening paper, and read the headline.

      “‘Instant action by our Government—state of war existing!’”

      “Ah!” said James, and sighed. “I was afraid they’d cut and run
      like old Gladstone. We shall finish with them this time.”

      All stared at him. James! Always fussy, nervous, anxious! James
      with his continual, “I told you how it would be!” and his
      pessimism, and his cautious investments. There was something
      uncanny about such resolution in this the oldest living Forsyte.

      “Where’s Timothy?” said James. “He ought to pay attention to
      this.”

      Aunt Juley said she didn’t know; Timothy had not said much at
      lunch to-day. Aunt Hester rose and threaded her way out of the
      room, and Francie said rather maliciously:

      “The Boers are a hard nut to crack, Uncle James.”

      “H’m!” muttered James. “Where do you get your information? Nobody
      tells me.”

      Young Nicholas remarked in his mild voice that Nick (his eldest)
      was now going to drill regularly.

      “Ah!” muttered James, and stared before him—his thoughts were on
      Val. “He’s got to look after his mother,” he said, “he’s got no
      time for drilling and that, with that father of his.” This
      cryptic saying produced silence, until he spoke again.

      “What did June want here?” And his eyes rested with suspicion on
      all of them in turn. “Her father’s a rich man now.” The
      conversation turned on Jolyon, and when he had been seen last. It
      was supposed that he went abroad and saw all sorts of people now
      that his wife was dead; his water-colours were on the line, and
      he was a successful man. Francie went so far as to say:

      “I should like to see him again; he was rather a dear.”

      Aunt Juley recalled how he had gone to sleep on the sofa one day,
      where James was sitting. He had always been very amiable; what
      did Soames think?

      Knowing that Jolyon was Irene’s trustee, all felt the delicacy of
      this question, and looked at Soames with interest. A faint pink
      had come up in his cheeks.

      “He’s going grey,” he said.

      Indeed! Had Soames seen him? Soames nodded, and the pink
      vanished.

      James said suddenly: “Well—I don’t know, I can’t tell.”

      It so exactly expressed the sentiment of everybody present that
      there was something behind everything, that nobody responded. But
      at this moment Aunt Hester returned.

      “Timothy,” she said in a low voice, “Timothy has bought a map,
      and he’s put in—he’s put in three flags.”

      Timothy had...! A sigh went round the company.

      If Timothy had indeed put in three flags already, well!—it showed
      what the nation could do when it was roused. The war was as good
      as over.




      CHAPTER XIII JOLYON FINDS OUT WHERE HE IS


      Jolyon stood at the window in Holly’s old night nursery,
      converted into a studio, not because it had a north light, but
      for its view over the prospect away to the Grand Stand at Epsom.
      He shifted to the side window which overlooked the stableyard,
      and whistled down to the dog Balthasar who lay for ever under the
      clock tower. The old dog looked up and wagged his tail. “Poor old
      boy!” thought Jolyon, shifting back to the other window.

      He had been restless all this week, since his attempt to
      prosecute trusteeship, uneasy in his conscience which was ever
      acute, disturbed in his sense of compassion which was easily
      excited, and with a queer sensation as if his feeling for beauty
      had received some definite embodiment. Autumn was getting hold of
      the old oak-tree, its leaves were browning. Sunshine had been
      plentiful and hot this summer. As with trees, so with men’s
      lives! “_I_ ought to live long,” thought Jolyon; “I’m getting
      mildewed for want of heat. If I can’t work, I shall be off to
      Paris.” But memory of Paris gave him no pleasure. Besides, how
      could he go? He must stay and see what Soames was going to do.
      “I’m her trustee. I can’t leave her unprotected,” he thought. It
      had been striking him as curious how very clearly he could still
      see Irene in her little drawing-room which he had only twice
      entered. Her beauty must have a sort of poignant harmony! No
      literal portrait would ever do her justice; the essence of her
      was—ah I what?... The noise of hoofs called him back to the other
      window. Holly was riding into the yard on her long-tailed
      “palfrey.” She looked up and he waved to her. She had been rather
      silent lately; getting old, he supposed, beginning to want her
      future, as they all did—youngsters!

      Time was certainly the devil! And with the feeling that to waste
      this swift-travelling commodity was unforgivable folly, he took
      up his brush. But it was no use; he could not concentrate his
      eye—besides, the light was going. “I’ll go up to town,” he
      thought. In the hall a servant met him.

      “A lady to see you, sir; Mrs. Heron.”

      Extraordinary coincidence! Passing into the picture-gallery, as
      it was still called, he saw Irene standing over by the window.

      She came towards him saying:

      “I’ve been trespassing; I came up through the coppice and garden.
      I always used to come that way to see Uncle Jolyon.”

      “You couldn’t trespass here,” replied Jolyon; “history makes that
      impossible. I was just thinking of you.”

      Irene smiled. And it was as if something shone through; not mere
      spirituality—serener, completer, more alluring.

      “History!” she answered; “I once told Uncle Jolyon that love was
      for ever. Well, it isn’t. Only aversion lasts.”

      Jolyon stared at her. Had she got over Bosinney at last?

      “Yes!” he said, “aversion’s deeper than love or hate because it’s
      a natural product of the nerves, and we don’t change them.”

      “I came to tell you that Soames has been to see me. He said a
      thing that frightened me. He said: ‘You are still my wife!’”

      “What!” ejaculated Jolyon. “You ought not to live alone.” And he
      continued to stare at her, afflicted by the thought that where
      Beauty was, nothing ever ran quite straight, which, no doubt, was
      why so many people looked on it as immoral.

      “What more?”

      “He asked me to shake hands.”

      “Did you?”

      “Yes. When he came in I’m sure he didn’t want to; he changed
      while he was there.”

      “Ah! you certainly ought not to go on living there alone.”

      “I know no woman I could ask; and I can’t take a lover to order,
      Cousin Jolyon.”

      “Heaven forbid!” said Jolyon. “What a damnable position! Will you
      stay to dinner? No? Well, let me see you back to town; I wanted
      to go up this evening.”

      “Truly?”

      “Truly. I’ll be ready in five minutes.”

      On that walk to the station they talked of pictures and music,
      contrasting the English and French characters and the difference
      in their attitude to Art. But to Jolyon the colours in the hedges
      of the long straight lane, the twittering of chaffinches who kept
      pace with them, the perfume of weeds being already burned, the
      turn of her neck, the fascination of those dark eyes bent on him
      now and then, the lure of her whole figure, made a deeper
      impression than the remarks they exchanged. Unconsciously he held
      himself straighter, walked with a more elastic step.

      In the train he put her through a sort of catechism as to what
      she did with her days.

      Made her dresses, shopped, visited a hospital, played her piano,
      translated from the French.

      She had regular work from a publisher, it seemed, which
      supplemented her income a little. She seldom went out in the
      evening. “I’ve been living alone so long, you see, that I don’t
      mind it a bit. I believe I’m naturally solitary.”

      “I don’t believe that,” said Jolyon. “Do you know many people?”

      “Very few.”

      At Waterloo they took a hansom, and he drove with her to the door
      of her mansions. Squeezing her hand at parting, he said:

      “You know, you could always come to us at Robin Hill; you must
      let me know everything that happens. Good-bye, Irene.”

      “Good-bye,” she answered softly.

      Jolyon climbed back into his cab, wondering why he had not asked
      her to dine and go to the theatre with him. Solitary, starved,
      hung-up life that she had! “Hotch Potch Club,” he said through
      the trap-door. As his hansom debouched on to the Embankment, a
      man in top-hat and overcoat passed, walking quickly, so close to
      the wall that he seemed to be scraping it.

      “By Jove!” thought Jolyon; “Soames himself! What’s _he_ up to
      now?” And, stopping the cab round the corner, he got out and
      retraced his steps to where he could see the entrance to the
      mansions. Soames had halted in front of them, and was looking up
      at the light in her windows. “If he goes in,” thought Jolyon,
      “what shall I do? What have I the right to do?” What the fellow
      had said was true. She was still his wife, absolutely without
      protection from annoyance! “Well, if he goes in,” he thought, “I
      follow.” And he began moving towards the mansions. Again Soames
      advanced; he was in the very entrance now. But suddenly he
      stopped, spun round on his heel, and came back towards the river.
      “What now?” thought Jolyon. “In a dozen steps he’ll recognise
      me.” And he turned tail. His cousin’s footsteps kept pace with
      his own. But he reached his cab, and got in before Soames had
      turned the corner. “Go on!” he said through the trap. Soames’
      figure ranged up alongside.

      “Hansom!” he said. “Engaged? Hallo!”

      “Hallo!” answered Jolyon. “You?”

      The quick suspicion on his cousin’s face, white in the lamplight,
      decided him.

      “I can give you a lift,” he said, “if you’re going West.”

      “Thanks,” answered Soames, and got in.

      “I’ve been seeing Irene,” said Jolyon when the cab had started.

      “Indeed!”

      “You went to see her yesterday yourself, I understand.”

      “I did,” said Soames; “she’s my wife, you know.”

      The tone, the half-lifted sneering lip, roused sudden anger in
      Jolyon; but he subdued it.

      “You ought to know best,” he said, “but if you want a divorce
      it’s not very wise to go seeing her, is it? One can’t run with
      the hare and hunt with the hounds?”

      “You’re very good to warn me,” said Soames, “but I have not made
      up my mind.”

      “_She_ has,” said Jolyon, looking straight before him; “you can’t
      take things up, you know, as they were twelve years ago.”

      “That remains to be seen.”

      “Look here!” said Jolyon, “she’s in a damnable position, and I am
      the only person with any legal say in her affairs.”

      “Except myself,” retorted Soames, “who am also in a damnable
      position. Hers is what she made for herself; mine what she made
      for me. I am not at all sure that in her own interests I shan’t
      require her to return to me.”

      “What!” exclaimed Jolyon; and a shiver went through his whole
      body.

      “I don’t know what you may mean by ‘what,’” answered Soames
      coldly; “your say in her affairs is confined to paying out her
      income; please bear that in mind. In choosing not to disgrace her
      by a divorce, I retained my rights, and, as I say, I am not at
      all sure that I shan’t require to exercise them.”

      “My God!” ejaculated Jolyon, and he uttered a short laugh.

      “Yes,” said Soames, and there was a deadly quality in his voice.
      “I’ve not forgotten the nickname your father gave me, ‘The man of
      property’. I’m not called names for nothing.”

      “This is fantastic,” murmured Jolyon. Well, the fellow couldn’t
      force his wife to live with him. Those days were past, anyway!
      And he looked around at Soames with the thought: “Is he real,
      this man?” But Soames looked very real, sitting square yet almost
      elegant with the clipped moustache on his pale face, and a tooth
      showing where a lip was lifted in a fixed smile. There was a long
      silence, while Jolyon thought: “Instead of helping her, I’ve made
      things worse.” Suddenly Soames said:

      “It would be the best thing that could happen to her in many
      ways.”

      At those words such a turmoil began taking place in Jolyon that
      he could barely sit still in the cab. It was as if he were boxed
      up with hundreds of thousands of his countrymen, boxed up with
      that something in the national character which had always been to
      him revolting, something which he knew to be extremely natural
      and yet which seemed to him inexplicable—their intense belief in
      contracts and vested rights, their complacent sense of virtue in
      the exaction of those rights. Here beside him in the cab was the
      very embodiment, the corporeal sum as it were, of the possessive
      instinct—his own kinsman, too! It was uncanny and intolerable!
      “But there’s something more in it than that!” he thought with a
      sick feeling. “The dog, they say, returns to his vomit! The sight
      of her has reawakened something. Beauty! The devil’s in it!”

      “As I say,” said Soames, “I have not made up my mind. I shall be
      obliged if you will kindly leave her quite alone.”

      Jolyon bit his lips; he who had always hated rows almost welcomed
      the thought of one now.

      “I can give you no such promise,” he said shortly.

      “Very well,” said Soames, “then we know where we are. I’ll get
      down here.” And stopping the cab he got out without word or sign
      of farewell. Jolyon travelled on to his Club.

      The first news of the war was being called in the streets, but he
      paid no attention. What could he do to help her? If only his
      father were alive! _He_ could have done so much! But why could he
      not do all that his father could have done? Was he not old
      enough?—turned fifty and twice married, with grown-up daughters
      and a son. “Queer,” he thought. “If she were plain I shouldn’t be
      thinking twice about it. Beauty is the devil, when you’re
      sensitive to it!” And into the Club reading-room he went with a
      disturbed heart. In that very room he and Bosinney had talked one
      summer afternoon; he well remembered even now the disguised and
      secret lecture he had given that young man in the interests of
      June, the diagnosis of the Forsytes he had hazarded; and how he
      had wondered what sort of woman it was he was warning him
      against. And now! He was almost in want of a warning himself.
      “It’s deuced funny!” he thought, “really deuced funny!”

      CHAPTER XIV SOAMES DISCOVERS WHAT HE WANTS

      It is so much easier to say, “Then we know where we are,” than to
      mean anything particular by the words. And in saying them Soames
      did but vent the jealous rankling of his instincts. He got out of
      the cab in a state of wary anger—with himself for not having seen
      Irene, with Jolyon for having seen her; and now with his
      inability to tell exactly what he wanted.

      He had abandoned the cab because he could not bear to remain
      seated beside his cousin, and walking briskly eastwards he
      thought: “I wouldn’t trust that fellow Jolyon a yard. Once
      outcast, always outcast!” The chap had a natural sympathy
      with—with—laxity (he had shied at the word sin, because it was
      too melodramatic for use by a Forsyte).

      Indecision in desire was to him a new feeling. He was like a
      child between a promised toy and an old one which had been taken
      away from him; and he was astonished at himself. Only last Sunday
      desire had seemed simple—just his freedom and Annette. “I’ll go
      and dine there,” he thought. To see her might bring back his
      singleness of intention, calm his exasperation, clear his mind.

      The restaurant was fairly full—a good many foreigners and folk
      whom, from their appearance, he took to be literary or artistic.
      Scraps of conversation came his way through the clatter of plates
      and glasses. He distinctly heard the Boers sympathised with, the
      British Government blamed. “Don’t think much of their clientèle,”
      he thought. He went stolidly through his dinner and special
      coffee without making his presence known, and when at last he had
      finished, was careful not to be seen going towards the sanctum of
      Madame Lamotte. They were, as he entered, having supper—such a
      much nicer-looking supper than the dinner he had eaten that he
      felt a kind of grief—and they greeted him with a surprise so
      seemingly genuine that he thought with sudden suspicion: “I
      believe they knew I was here all the time.” He gave Annette a
      look furtive and searching. So pretty, seemingly so candid; could
      she be angling for him? He turned to Madame Lamotte and said:

      “I’ve been dining here.”

      Really! If she had only known! There were dishes she could have
      recommended; what a pity! Soames was confirmed in his suspicion.
      “I must look out what I’m doing!” he thought sharply.

      “Another little cup of very special coffee, _monsieur;_ a
      liqueur, Grand Marnier?” and Madame Lamotte rose to order these
      delicacies.

      Alone with Annette Soames said, “Well, Annette?” with a defensive
      little smile about his lips.

      The girl blushed. This, which last Sunday would have set his
      nerves tingling, now gave him much the same feeling a man has
      when a dog that he owns wriggles and looks at him. He had a
      curious sense of power, as if he could have said to her, “Come
      and kiss me,” and she would have come. And yet—it was strange—but
      there seemed another face and form in the room too; and the itch
      in his nerves, was it for that—or for this? He jerked his head
      towards the restaurant and said: “You have some queer customers.
      Do you like this life?”

      Annette looked up at him for a moment, looked down, and played
      with her fork.

      “No,” she said, “I do not like it.”

      “I’ve got her,” thought Soames, “if I want her. But do I want
      her?” She was graceful, she was pretty—very pretty; she was
      fresh, she had taste of a kind. His eyes travelled round the
      little room; but the eyes of his mind went another journey—a
      half-light, and silvery walls, a satinwood piano, a woman
      standing against it, reined back as it were from him—a woman with
      white shoulders that he knew, and dark eyes that he had sought to
      know, and hair like dull dark amber. And as in an artist who
      strives for the unrealisable and is ever thirsty, so there rose
      in him at that moment the thirst of the old passion he had never
      satisfied.

      “Well,” he said calmly, “you’re young. There’s everything before
      _you_.”

      Annette shook her head.

      “I think sometimes there is nothing before me but hard work. I am
      not so in love with work as mother.”

      “Your mother is a wonder,” said Soames, faintly mocking; “she
      will never let failure lodge in her house.”

      Annette sighed. “It must be wonderful to be rich.”

      “Oh! You’ll be rich some day,” answered Soames, still with that
      faint mockery; “don’t be afraid.”

      Annette shrugged her shoulders. “_Monsieur_ is very kind.” And
      between her pouting lips she put a chocolate.

      “Yes, my dear,” thought Soames, “they’re very pretty.”

      Madame Lamotte, with coffee and liqueur, put an end to that
      colloquy. Soames did not stay long.

      Outside in the streets of Soho, which always gave him such a
      feeling of property improperly owned, he mused. If only Irene had
      given him a son, he wouldn’t now be squirming after women! The
      thought had jumped out of its little dark sentry-box in his inner
      consciousness. A son—something to look forward to, something to
      make the rest of life worth while, something to leave himself to,
      some perpetuity of self. “If I had a son,” he thought bitterly,
      “a proper legal son, I could make shift to go on as I used. One
      woman’s much the same as another, after all.” But as he walked he
      shook his head. No! One woman was not the same as another. Many a
      time had he tried to think that in the old days of his thwarted
      married life; and he had always failed. He was failing now. He
      was trying to think Annette the same as that other. But she was
      not, she had not the lure of that old passion. “And Irene’s my
      wife,” he thought, “my legal wife. I have done nothing to put her
      away from me. Why shouldn’t she come back to me? It’s the right
      thing, the lawful thing. It makes no scandal, no disturbance. If
      it’s disagreeable to her—but why _should_ it be? I’m not a leper,
      and she—she’s no longer in love!” Why should he be put to the
      shifts and the sordid disgraces and the lurking defeats of the
      Divorce Court, when there she was like an empty house only
      waiting to be retaken into use and possession by him who legally
      owned her? To one so secretive as Soames the thought of reentry
      into quiet possession of his own property with nothing given away
      to the world was intensely alluring. “No,” he mused, “I’m glad I
      went to see that girl. I know now what I want most. If only Irene
      will come back I’ll be as considerate as she wishes; she could
      live her own life; but perhaps—perhaps she would come round to
      me.” There was a lump in his throat. And doggedly along by the
      railings of the Green Park, towards his father’s house, he went,
      trying to tread on his shadow walking before him in the brilliant
      moonlight.




      PART II

      CHAPTER I THE THIRD GENERATION


      Jolly Forsyte was strolling down High Street, Oxford, on a
      November afternoon; Val Dartie was strolling up. Jolly had just
      changed out of boating flannels and was on his way to the
      “Frying-pan,” to which he had recently been elected. Val had just
      changed out of riding clothes and was on his way to the fire—a
      bookmaker’s in Cornmarket.

      “Hallo!” said Jolly.

      “Hallo!” replied Val.

      The cousins had met but twice, Jolly, the second-year man, having
      invited the freshman to breakfast; and last evening they had seen
      each other again under somewhat exotic circumstances.

      Over a tailor’s in the Cornmarket resided one of those privileged
      young beings called minors, whose inheritances are large, whose
      parents are dead, whose guardians are remote, and whose instincts
      are vicious. At nineteen he had commenced one of those careers
      attractive and inexplicable to ordinary mortals for whom a single
      bankruptcy is good as a feast. Already famous for having the only
      roulette table then to be found in Oxford, he was anticipating
      his expectations at a dazzling rate. He out-crummed Crum, though
      of a sanguine and rather beefy type which lacked the latter’s
      fascinating languor. For Val it had been in the nature of baptism
      to be taken there to play roulette; in the nature of confirmation
      to get back into college, after hours, through a window whose
      bars were deceptive. Once, during that evening of delight,
      glancing up from the seductive green before him, he had caught
      sight, through a cloud of smoke, of his cousin standing opposite.
      “_Rouge gagne, impair, et manque!_” He had not seen him again.

      “Come in to the Frying-pan and have tea,” said Jolly, and they
      went in.

      A stranger, seeing them together, would have noticed an
      unseizable resemblance between these second cousins of the third
      generations of Forsytes; the same bone formation in face, though
      Jolly’s eyes were darker grey, his hair lighter and more wavy.

      “Tea and buttered buns, waiter, please,” said Jolly.

      “Have one of my cigarettes?” said Val. “I saw you last night. How
      did you do?”

      “I didn’t play.”

      “I won fifteen quid.”

      Though desirous of repeating a whimsical comment on gambling he
      had once heard his father make—“When you’re fleeced you’re sick,
      and when you fleece you’re sorry”—Jolly contented himself with:

      “Rotten game, I think; I was at school with that chap. He’s an
      awful fool.”

      “Oh! I don’t know,” said Val, as one might speak in defence of a
      disparaged god; “he’s a pretty good sport.”

      They exchanged whiffs in silence.

      “You met my people, didn’t you?” said Jolly. “They’re coming up
      to-morrow.”

      Val grew a little red.

      “Really! I can give you a rare good tip for the Manchester
      November handicap.”

      “Thanks, I only take interest in the classic races.”

      “You can’t make any money over them,” said Val.

      “I hate the ring,” said Jolly; “there’s such a row and stink. I
      like the paddock.”

      “I like to back my judgment,” answered Val.

      Jolly smiled; his smile was like his father’s.

      “I haven’t got any. I always lose money if I bet.”

      “You have to buy experience, of course.”

      “Yes, but it’s all messed-up with doing people in the eye.”

      “Of course, or they’ll do you—that’s the excitement.”

      Jolly looked a little scornful.

      “What do you do with yourself? Row?”

      “No—ride, and drive about. I’m going to play polo next term, if I
      can get my granddad to stump up.”

      “That’s old Uncle James, isn’t it? What’s he like?”

      “Older than forty hills,” said Val, “and always thinking he’s
      going to be ruined.”

      “I suppose my granddad and he were brothers.”

      “I don’t believe any of that old lot were sportsmen,” said Val;
      “they must have worshipped money.”

      “Mine didn’t!” said Jolly warmly.

      Val flipped the ash off his cigarette.

      “Money’s only fit to spend,” he said; “I wish the deuce I had
      more.”

      Jolly gave him that direct upward look of judgment which he had
      inherited from old Jolyon: One didn’t talk about money! And again
      there was silence, while they drank tea and ate the buttered
      buns.

      “Where are your people going to stay?” asked Val, elaborately
      casual.

      “‘Rainbow.’ What do you think of the war?”

      “Rotten, so far. The Boers aren’t sports a bit. Why don’t they
      come out into the open?”

      “Why should they? They’ve got everything against them except
      their way of fighting. I rather admire them.”

      “They can ride and shoot,” admitted Val, “but they’re a lousy
      lot. Do you know Crum?”

      “Of Merton? Only by sight. He’s in that fast set too, isn’t he?
      Rather La-di-da and Brummagem.”

      Val said fixedly: “He’s a friend of mine.”

      “Oh! Sorry!” And they sat awkwardly staring past each other,
      having pitched on their pet points of snobbery. For Jolly was
      forming himself unconsciously on a set whose motto was:

      “We defy you to bore us. Life isn’t half long enough, and we’re
      going to talk faster and more crisply, do more and know more, and
      dwell less on any subject than you can possibly imagine. We are
      ‘the best’—made of wire and whipcord.” And Val was unconsciously
      forming himself on a set whose motto was: “We defy you to
      interest or excite us. We have had every sensation, or if we
      haven’t, we pretend we have. We are so exhausted with living that
      no hours are too small for us. We will lose our shirts with
      equanimity. We have flown fast and are past everything. All is
      cigarette smoke. Bismillah!” Competitive spirit, bone-deep in the
      English, was obliging those two young Forsytes to have ideals;
      and at the close of a century ideals are mixed. The aristocracy
      had already in the main adopted the “jumping-Jesus” principle;
      though here and there one like Crum—who was an “honourable”—stood
      starkly languid for that gambler’s Nirvana which had been the
      _summum bonum_ of the old “dandies” and of “the mashers” in the
      eighties. And round Crum were still gathered a forlorn hope of
      blue-bloods with a plutocratic following.

      But there was between the cousins another far less obvious
      antipathy—coming from the unseizable family resemblance, which
      each perhaps resented; or from some half-consciousness of that
      old feud persisting still between their branches of the clan,
      formed within them by odd words or half-hints dropped by their
      elders. And Jolly, tinkling his teaspoon, was musing: “His
      tie-pin and his waistcoat and his drawl and his betting—good
      Lord!”

      And Val, finishing his bun, was thinking: “He’s rather a young
      beast!”

      “I suppose you’ll be meeting your people?” he said, getting up.
      “I wish you’d tell them I should like to show them over
      B.N.C.—not that there’s anything much there—if they’d care to
      come.”

      “Thanks, I’ll ask them.”

      “Would they lunch? I’ve got rather a decent scout.”

      Jolly doubted if they would have time.

      “You’ll ask them, though?”

      “Very good of you,” said Jolly, fully meaning that they should
      not go; but, instinctively polite, he added: “You’d better come
      and have dinner with us to-morrow.”

      “Rather. What time?”

      “Seven-thirty.”

      “Dress?”

      “No.” And they parted, a subtle antagonism alive within them.

      Holly and her father arrived by a midday train. It was her first
      visit to the city of spires and dreams, and she was very silent,
      looking almost shyly at the brother who was part of this
      wonderful place. After lunch she wandered, examining his
      household gods with intense curiosity. Jolly’s sitting-room was
      panelled, and Art represented by a set of Bartolozzi prints which
      had belonged to old Jolyon, and by college photographs—of young
      men, live young men, a little heroic, and to be compared with her
      memories of Val. Jolyon also scrutinised with care that evidence
      of his boy’s character and tastes.

      Jolly was anxious that they should see him rowing, so they set
      forth to the river. Holly, between her brother and her father,
      felt elated when heads were turned and eyes rested on her. That
      they might see him to the best advantage they left him at the
      Barge and crossed the river to the towing-path. Slight in
      build—for of all the Forsytes only old Swithin and George were
      beefy—Jolly was rowing “Two” in a trial eight. He looked very
      earnest and strenuous. With pride Jolyon thought him the
      best-looking boy of the lot; Holly, as became a sister, was more
      struck by one or two of the others, but would not have said so
      for the world. The river was bright that afternoon, the meadows
      lush, the trees still beautiful with colour. Distinguished peace
      clung around the old city; Jolyon promised himself a day’s
      sketching if the weather held. The Eight passed a second time,
      spurting home along the Barges—Jolly’s face was very set, so as
      not to show that he was blown. They returned across the river and
      waited for him.

      “Oh!” said Jolly in the Christ Church meadows, “I had to ask that
      chap Val Dartie to dine with us to-night. He wanted to give you
      lunch and show you B.N.C., so I thought I’d better; then you
      needn’t go. I don’t like him much.”

      Holly’s rather sallow face had become suffused with pink.

      “Why not?”

      “Oh! I don’t know. He seems to me rather showy and bad form. What
      are his people like, Dad? He’s only a second cousin, isn’t he?”

      Jolyon took refuge in a smile.

      “Ask Holly,” he said; “she saw his uncle.”

      “I _liked_ Val,” Holly answered, staring at the ground before
      her; “his uncle looked—awfully different.” She stole a glance at
      Jolly from under her lashes.

      “Did you ever,” said Jolyon with whimsical intention, “hear our
      family history, my dears? It’s quite a fairy tale. The first
      Jolyon Forsyte—at all events the first we know anything of, and
      that would be your great-great-grandfather—dwelt in the land of
      Dorset on the edge of the sea, being by profession an
      ‘agriculturalist,’ as your great-aunt put it, and the son of an
      agriculturist—farmers, in fact; your grandfather used to call
      them, ‘Very small beer.’” He looked at Jolly to see how his
      lordliness was standing it, and with the other eye noted Holly’s
      malicious pleasure in the slight drop of her brother’s face.

      “We may suppose him thick and sturdy, standing for England as it
      was before the Industrial Era began. The second Jolyon
      Forsyte—your great-grandfather, Jolly; better known as Superior
      Dosset Forsyte—built houses, so the chronicle runs, begat ten
      children, and migrated to London town. It is known that he drank
      sherry. We may suppose him representing the England of Napoleon’s
      wars, and general unrest. The eldest of his six sons was the
      third Jolyon, your grandfather, my dears—tea merchant and
      chairman of companies, one of the soundest Englishmen who ever
      lived—and to me the dearest.” Jolyon’s voice had lost its irony,
      and his son and daughter gazed at him solemnly, “He was just and
      tenacious, tender and young at heart. You remember him, and I
      remember him. Pass to the others! Your great-uncle James, that’s
      young Val’s grandfather, had a son called Soames—whereby hangs a
      tale of no love lost, and I don’t think I’ll tell it you. James
      and the other eight children of ‘Superior Dosset,’ of whom there
      are still five alive, may be said to have represented Victorian
      England, with its principles of trade and individualism at five
      per cent. and your money back—if you know what that means. At all
      events they’ve turned thirty thousand pounds into a cool million
      between them in the course of their long lives. They never did a
      wild thing—unless it was your great-uncle Swithin, who I believe
      was once swindled at thimble-rig, and was called ‘Four-in-hand
      Forsyte’ because he drove a pair. Their day is passing, and their
      type, not altogether for the advantage of the country. They were
      pedestrian, but they too were sound. I am the fourth Jolyon
      Forsyte—a poor holder of the name—”

      “No, Dad,” said Jolly, and Holly squeezed his hand.

      “Yes,” repeated Jolyon, “a poor specimen, representing, I’m
      afraid, nothing but the end of the century, unearned income,
      amateurism, and individual liberty—a different thing from
      individualism, Jolly. You are the fifth Jolyon Forsyte, old man,
      and you open the ball of the new century.”

      As he spoke they turned in through the college gates, and Holly
      said: “It’s fascinating, Dad.”

      None of them quite knew what she meant. Jolly was grave.

      The Rainbow, distinguished, as only an Oxford hostel can be, for
      lack of modernity, provided one small oak-panelled private
      sitting-room, in which Holly sat to receive, white-frocked, shy,
      and alone, when the only guest arrived. Rather as one would touch
      a moth, Val took her hand. And wouldn’t she wear this “measly
      flower”. It would look ripping in her hair. He removed a gardenia
      from his coat.

      “Oh! No, thank you—I couldn’t!” But she took it and pinned it at
      her neck, having suddenly remembered that word “showy”. Val’s
      buttonhole would give offence; and she so much wanted Jolly to
      like him. Did she realise that Val was at his best and quietest
      in her presence, and was that, perhaps, half the secret of his
      attraction for her?

      “I never said anything about our ride, Val.”

      “Rather not! It’s just between us.”

      By the uneasiness of his hands and the fidgeting of his feet he
      was giving her a sense of power very delicious; a soft feeling
      too—the wish to make him happy.

      “Do tell me about Oxford. It must be ever so lovely.”

      Val admitted that it was frightfully decent to do what you liked;
      the lectures were nothing; and there were some very good chaps.
      “Only,” he added, “of course I wish I was in town, and could come
      down and see you.”

      Holly moved one hand shyly on her knee, and her glance dropped.

      “You haven’t forgotten,” he said, suddenly gathering courage,
      “that we’re going mad-rabbiting together?”

      Holly smiled.

      “Oh! That was only make-believe. One can’t do that sort of thing
      after one’s grown up, you know.”

      “Dash it! cousins can,” said Val. “Next Long Vac.—it begins in
      June, you know, and goes on for ever—we’ll watch our chance.”

      But, though the thrill of conspiracy ran through her veins, Holly
      shook her head. “It won’t come off,” she murmured.

      “Won’t it!” said Val fervently; “who’s going to stop it? Not your
      father or your brother.”

      At this moment Jolyon and Jolly came in; and romance fled into
      Val’s patent leather and Holly’s white satin toes, where it
      itched and tingled during an evening not conspicuous for
      open-heartedness.

      Sensitive to atmosphere, Jolyon soon felt the latent antagonism
      between the boys, and was puzzled by Holly; so he became
      unconsciously ironical, which is fatal to the expansiveness of
      youth. A letter, handed to him after dinner, reduced him to a
      silence hardly broken till Jolly and Val rose to go. He went out
      with them, smoking his cigar, and walked with his son to the
      gates of Christ Church. Turning back, he took out the letter and
      read it again beneath a lamp.

      “DEAR JOLYON,
          “Soames came again to-night—my thirty-seventh birthday. You
          were right, I mustn’t stay here. I’m going to-morrow to the
          Piedmont Hotel, but I won’t go abroad without seeing you. I
          feel lonely and down-hearted.

      “Yours affectionately,
      “IRENE.”

      He folded the letter back into his pocket and walked on,
      astonished at the violence of his feelings. What had the fellow
      said or done?

      He turned into High Street, down the Turf, and on among a maze of
      spires and domes and long college fronts and walls, bright or
      dark-shadowed in the strong moonlight. In this very heart of
      England’s gentility it was difficult to realise that a lonely
      woman could be importuned or hunted, but what else could her
      letter mean? Soames must have been pressing her to go back to him
      again, with public opinion and the Law on his side, too!
      “Eighteen-ninety-nine!,” he thought, gazing at the broken glass
      shining on the top of a villa garden wall; “but when it comes to
      property we’re still a heathen people! I’ll go up to-morrow
      morning. I dare say it’ll be best for her to go abroad.” Yet the
      thought displeased him. Why should Soames hunt her out of
      England! Besides, he might follow, and out there she would be
      still more helpless against the attentions of her own husband! “I
      must tread warily,” he thought; “that fellow could make himself
      very nasty. I didn’t like his manner in the cab the other night.”
      His thoughts turned to his daughter June. Could she help? Once on
      a time Irene had been her greatest friend, and now she was a
      “lame duck,” such as must appeal to June’s nature! He determined
      to wire to his daughter to meet him at Paddington Station.
      Retracing his steps towards the Rainbow he questioned his own
      sensations. Would he be upsetting himself over every woman in
      like case? No! he would not. The candour of this conclusion
      discomfited him; and, finding that Holly had gone up to bed, he
      sought his own room. But he could not sleep, and sat for a long
      time at his window, huddled in an overcoat, watching the
      moonlight on the roofs.

      Next door Holly too was awake, thinking of the lashes above and
      below Val’s eyes, especially below; and of what she could do to
      make Jolly like him better. The scent of the gardenia was strong
      in her little bedroom, and pleasant to her.

      And Val, leaning out of his first-floor window in B.N.C., was
      gazing at a moonlit quadrangle without seeing it at all, seeing
      instead Holly, slim and white-frocked, as she sat beside the fire
      when he first went in.

      But Jolly, in his bedroom narrow as a ghost, lay with a hand
      beneath his cheek and dreamed he was with Val in one boat, rowing
      a race against him, while his father was calling from the
      towpath: “Two! Get your hands away there, bless you!”

