Confundus Charm, to judge by their behavior. They 
seemed to think there was a possibility he was 

Page | 431 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



innocent. They weren’t responsible for their actions. 
On the other hand, their interference might have 
permitted Black to escape. ... They obviously thought 
they were going to catch Black single-handed. They’ve 
got away with a great deal before now. ... I’m afraid 
it’s given them a rather high opinion of themselves ... 
and of course Potter has always been allowed an 
extraordinary amount of license by the headmaster — 



“Ah, well, Snape ... Harry Potter, you know ... we’ve 
all got a bit of a blind spot where he’s concerned.” 

“And yet — is it good for him to be given so much 
special treatment? Personally, I try and treat him like 
any other student. And any other student would be 
suspended — at the very least — for leading his 
friends into such danger. Consider, Minister — 
against all school rules — after all the precautions 
put in place for his protection — out-of-bounds, at 
night, consorting with a werewolf and a murderer — 
and I have reason to believe he has been visiting 
Hogsmeade illegally too — ” 

“Well, well ... we shall see, Snape, we shall see. ... The 
boy has undoubtedly been foolish. ...” 

Harry lay listening with his eyes tight shut. He felt 
very groggy. The words he was hearing seemed to be 
traveling very slowly from his ears to his brain, so 
that it was difficult to understand. ... His limbs felt 
like lead; his eyelids too heavy to lift. ... He wanted to 
lie here, on this comfortable bed, forever. ... 

“What amazes me most is the behavior of the 
dementors ... you’ve really no idea what made them 
retreat, Snape?” 



Page | 432 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“No, Minister ... by the time I had come ’round they 
were heading back to their positions at the entrances. 



“Extraordinary. And yet Black, and Harry, and the girl 



“All unconscious by the time I reached them. I bound 
and gagged Black, naturally, conjured stretchers, and 
brought them all straight back to the castle.” 

There was a pause. Harry’s brain seemed to be 
moving a little faster, and as it did, a gnawing 
sensation grew in the pit of his stomach. ... 

He opened his eyes. 

Everything was slightly blurred. Somebody had 
removed his glasses. He was lying in the dark hospital 
wing. At the very end of the ward, he could make out 
Madam Pomfrey with her back to him, bending over a 
bed. Harry squinted. Ron’s red hair was visible 
beneath Madam Pomfrey’s arm. 

Harry moved his head over on the pillow. In the bed 
to his right lay Hermione. Moonlight was falling 
across her bed. Her eyes were open too. She looked 
petrified, and when she saw that Harry was awake, 
pressed a finger to her lips, then pointed to the 
hospital wing door. It was ajar, and the voices of 
Cornelius Fudge and Snape were coming through it 
from the corridor outside. 

Madam Pomfrey now came walking briskly up the 
dark ward to Harry’s bed. He turned to look at her. 
She was carrying the largest block of chocolate he 
had ever seen in his life. It looked like a small 
boulder. 



Page | 433 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah, you’re awake!” she said briskly. She placed the 
chocolate on Harry’s bedside table and began 
breaking it apart with a small hammer. 

“How’s Ron?” said Harry and Hermione together. 

“He’ll live,” said Madam Pomfrey grimly. “As for you 
two ... you’ll be staying here until I’m satisfied you’re 
— Potter, what do you think you’re doing?” 

Harry was sitting up, putting his glasses back on, and 
picking up his wand. 

“I need to see the headmaster,” he said. 

“Potter,” said Madam Pomfrey soothingly, “it’s all 
right. They’ve got Black. He’s locked away upstairs. 
The dementors will be performing the kiss any 
moment now — ” 

“WHAT?” 

Harry jumped up out of bed; Hermione had done the 
same. But his shout had been heard in the corridor 
outside; next second, Cornelius Fudge and Snape had 
entered the ward. 

“Harry, Harry, what’s this?” said Fudge, looking 
agitated. “You should be in bed — has he had any 
chocolate?” he asked Madam Pomfrey anxiously. 

“Minister, listen!” Harry said. “Sirius Black’s innocent! 
Peter Pettigrew faked his own death! We saw him 
tonight! You can’t let the dementors do that thing to 
Sirius, he’s — ” 

But Fudge was shaking his head with a small smile 
on his face. 



Page | 434 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, Harry, you’re very confused, you’ve been 
through a dreadful ordeal, lie back down, now, we’ve 
got everything under control. ...” 

“YOU HAVEN’T!” Harry yelled. “YOU VE GOT THE 
WRONG MAN!” 

“Minister, listen, please,” Hermione said; she had 
hurried to Harry’s side and was gazing imploringly 
into Fudge’s face. “I saw him too. It was Ron’s rat, 
he’s an Animagus, Pettigrew, I mean, and — ” 

“You see, Minister?” said Snape. “Confunded, both of 
them. ... Black’s done a very good job on them. ...” 

“WE’RE NOT CONFUNDED!” Harry roared. 

“Minister! Professor!” said Madam Pomfrey angrily. “I 
must insist that you leave. Potter is my patient, and 
he should not be distressed!” 

“I’m not distressed, I’m trying to tell them what 
happened!” Harry said furiously. “If they’d just listen 



But Madam Pomfrey suddenly stuffed a large chunk 
of chocolate into Harry’s mouth; he choked, and she 
seized the opportunity to force him back onto the bed. 

“Now, please, Minister, these children need care. 
Please leave — ” 

The door opened again. It was Dumbledore. Harry 
swallowed his mouthful of chocolate with great 
difficulty and got up again. 

“Professor Dumbledore, Sirius Black — ” 



Page | 435 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“For heaven’s sake!” said Madam Pomfrey 
hysterically. “Is this a hospital wing or not? 
Headmaster, I must insist — ” 

“My apologies, Poppy, but I need a word with Mr. 
Potter and Miss Granger,” said Dumbledore calmly. “I 
have just been talking to Sirius Black — ” 

“I suppose he’s told you the same fairy tale he’s 
planted in Potter’s mind?” spat Snape. “Something 
about a rat, and Pettigrew being alive — ” 

“That, indeed, is Black’s story,” said Dumbledore, 
surveying Snape closely through his half-moon 
spectacles. 

“And does my evidence count for nothing?” snarled 
Snape. “Peter Pettigrew was not in the Shrieking 
Shack, nor did I see any sign of him on the grounds.” 

“That was because you were knocked out, Professor!” 
said Hermione earnestly. “You didn’t arrive in time to 
hear — ” 

“Miss Granger, HOLD YOUR TONGUE!” 

“Now, Snape,” said Fudge, startled, “the young lady is 
disturbed in her mind, we must make allowances — ” 

“I would like to speak to Harry and Hermione alone,” 
said Dumbledore abruptly. “Cornelius, Severus, 

Poppy — please leave us.” 

“Headmaster!” sputtered Madam Pomfrey “They need 
treatment, they need rest — ” 

“This cannot wait,” said Dumbledore. “I must insist.” 



Page | 436 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Madam Pomfrey pursed her lips and strode away into 
her office at the end of the ward, slamming the door 
behind her. Fudge consulted the large gold pocket 
watch dangling from his waistcoat. 

“The dementors should have arrived by now,” he said. 
“Ill go and meet them. Dumbledore, 111 see you 
upstairs.” 

He crossed to the door and held it open for Snape, 
but Snape hadn’t moved. 

“You surely don’t believe a word of Black’s story?” 
Snape whispered, his eyes fixed on Dumbledore ’s 
face. 

“I wish to speak to Harry and Hermione alone,” 
Dumbledore repeated. 

Snape took a step toward Dumbledore. 

“Sirius Black showed he was capable of murder at the 
age of sixteen,” he breathed. “You haven’t forgotten 
that, Headmaster? You haven’t forgotten that he once 
tried to kill me?” 

“My memory is as good as it ever was, Severus,” said 
Dumbledore quietly. 

Snape turned on his heel and marched through the 
door Fudge was still holding. It closed behind them, 
and Dumbledore turned to Harry and Hermione. They 
both burst into speech at the same time. 

“Professor, Black’s telling the truth — we saw 
Pettigrew — ” 

“ — he escaped when Professor Lupin turned into a 
werewolf — ” 

Page | 437 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ — he’s a rat — ” 



“ — Pettigrew’s front paw, I mean, finger, he cut it off 



“ — Pettigrew attacked Ron, it wasn’t Sirius — ” 

But Dumbledore held up his hand to stem the flood of 
explanations. 

“It is your turn to listen, and I beg you will not 
interrupt me, because there is very little time,” he 
said quietly. “There is not a shred of proof to support 
Black’s story, except your word — and the word of 
two thirteen-year-old wizards will not convince 
anybody. A street full of eyewitnesses swore they saw 
Sirius murder Pettigrew. I myself gave evidence to the 
Ministry that Sirius had been the Potters’ Secret- 
Keeper.” 

“Professor Lupin can tell you — ” Harry said, unable to 
stop himself. 

“Professor Lupin is currently deep in the forest, 
unable to tell anyone anything. By the time he is 
human again, it will be too late, Sirius will be worse 
than dead. I might add that werewolves are so 
mistrusted by most of our kind that his support will 
count for very little — and the fact that he and Sirius 
are old friends — ” 

“But — ” 

“ Listen to me, Harry. It is too late, you understand 
me? You must see that Professor Snape’s version of 
events is far more convincing than yours.” 

“He hates Sirius,” Hermione said desperately. “All 
because of some stupid trick Sirius played on him — ” 

Page | 438 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius has not acted like an innocent man. The 
attack on the Fat Lady — entering Gryffindor Tower 
with a knife — without Pettigrew, alive or dead, we 
have no chance of overturning Sirius’s sentence.” 

“But you believe us.” 

“Yes, I do,” said Dumbledore quietly. “But I have no 
power to make other men see the truth, or to overrule 
the Minister of Magic. ...” 

Harry stared up into the grave face and felt as though 
the ground beneath him were falling sharply away. He 
had grown used to the idea that Dumbledore could 
solve anything. He had expected Dumbledore to pull 
some amazing solution out of the air. But no . . . their 
last hope was gone. 

“What we need,” said Dumbledore slowly, and his 
light blue eyes moved from Harry to Hermione, “is 
more time.” 

“But — ” Hermione began. And then her eyes became 
very round. “OH!” 

“Now, pay attention,” said Dumbledore, speaking very 
low, and very clearly. “Sirius is locked in Professor 
Flitwick’s office on the seventh floor. Thirteenth 
window from the right of the West Tower. If all goes 
well, you will be able to save more than one innocent 
life tonight. But remember this, both of you: you must 
not be seen. Miss Granger, you know the law — you 
know what is at stake. ... You — must — not — be — 
seen.” 

Harry didn’t have a clue what was going on. 
Dumbledore had turned on his heel and looked back 
as he reached the door. 



Page | 439 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I am going to lock you in. It is — ” he consulted his 
watch, “five minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three 
turns should do it. Good luck.” 

“Good luck?” Harry repeated as the door closed 
behind Dumbledore. “Three turns? What’s he talking 
about? What are we supposed to do?” 

But Hermione was fumbling with the neck of her 
robes, pulling from beneath them a very long, very 
fine gold chain. 

“Harry, come here,” she said urgently. “Quick).” 

Harry moved toward her, completely bewildered. She 
was holding the chain out. He saw a tiny, sparkling 
hourglass hanging from it. 

“Here — ” 

She had thrown the chain around his neck too. 

“Ready?” she said breathlessly. 

“What are we doing?” Harry said, completely lost. 

Hermione turned the hourglass over three times. 

The dark ward dissolved. Harry had the sensation 
that he was flying very fast, backward. A blur of 
colors and shapes rushed past him, his ears were 
pounding, he tried to yell but couldn’t hear his own 
voice — 

And then he felt solid ground beneath his feet, and 
everything came into focus again — 

He was standing next to Hermione in the deserted 
entrance hall and a stream of golden sunlight was 

Page | 440 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




falling across the paved floor from the open front 
doors. He looked wildly around at Hermione, the 
chain of the hourglass cutting into his neck. 

“Hermione, what — ?” 

“In here!” Hermione seized Harry’s arm and dragged 
him across the hall to the door of a broom closet; she 
opened it, pushed him inside among the buckets and 
mops, then slammed the door behind them. 

“What — how — Hermione, what happened?” 

“We’ve gone back in time,” Hermione whispered, 
lifting the chain off Harry’s neck in the darkness. 
“Three hours back ...” 

Harry found his own leg and gave it a very hard 
pinch. It hurt a lot, which seemed to rule out the 
possibility that he was having a very bizarre dream. 

“But — ” 

“Shh! Listen! Someone’s coming! I think — I think it 
might be us!” 

Hermione had her ear pressed against the cupboard 
door. 

“Footsteps across the hall ... yes, I think it’s us going 
down to Hagrid’s!” 

“Are you telling me,” Harry whispered, “that we’re 
here in this cupboard and we’re out there too?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione, her ear still glued to the 
cupboard door. “I’m sure it’s us. It doesn’t sound like 
more than three people ... and we’re walking slowly 
because we’re under the Invisibility Cloak — ” 

Page | 441 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




She broke off, still listening intently. 



“We’ve gone down the front steps. ...” 

Hermione sat down on an upturned bucket, looking 
desperately anxious, but Harry wanted a few 
questions answered. 

“Where did you get that hourglass thing?” 

“It’s called a Time-Turner,” Hermione whispered, “and 
I got it from Professor McGonagall on our first day 
back. I’ve been using it all year to get to all my 
lessons. Professor McGonagall made me swear I 
wouldn’t tell anyone. She had to write all sorts of 
letters to the Ministry of Magic so I could have one. 
She had to tell them that I was a model student, and 
that I’d never, ever use it for anything except my 
studies. ... I’ve been turning it back so I could do 
hours over again, that’s how I’ve been doing several 
lessons at once, see? But ... 

“Harry, I don’t understand what Dumbledore wants us 
to do. Why did he tell us to go back three hours? 

How’s that going to help Sirius?” 

Harry stared at her shadowy face. 

“There must be something that happened around now 
he wants us to change,” he said slowly. “What 
happened? We were walking down to Hagrid’s three 
hours ago. ...” 

“This is three hours ago, and we are walking down to 
Hagrid’s,” said Hermione. “We just heard ourselves 
leaving. ...” 

Harry frowned; he felt as though he were screwing up 
his whole brain in concentration. 

Page | 442 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Dumbledore just said — just said we could save 
more than one innocent life. ...” And then it hit him. 
“Hermione, we’re going to save Buckbeak!” 

“But — how will that help Sirius?” 

“Dumbledore said — he just told us where the 
window is — the window of Flitwick’s office! Where 
they’ve got Sirius locked up! We’ve got to fly 
Buckbeak up to the window and rescue Sirius! Sirius 
can escape on Buckbeak — they can escape together!” 

From what Harry could see of Hermione’s face, she 
looked terrified. 

“If we manage that without being seen, it’ll be a 
miracle!” 

“Well, we’ve got to try, haven’t we?” said Harry. He 
stood up and pressed his ear against the door. 

“Doesn’t sound like anyone’s there. ... Come on, let’s 

go. ...” 

Harry pushed open the closet door. The entrance hall 
was deserted. As quietly and quickly as they could, 
they darted out of the closet and down the stone 
steps. The shadows were already lengthening, the 
tops of the trees in the Forbidden Forest gilded once 
more with gold. 

“If anyone’s looking out of the window — ” Hermione 
squeaked, looking up at the castle behind them. 

“Well run for it,” said Harry determinedly. “Straight 
into the forest, all right? We’ll have to hide behind a 
tree or something and keep a lookout — ” 



Page | 443 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Okay, but well go around by the greenhouses!” said 
Hermione breathlessly. “We need to keep out of sight 
of Hagrid’s front door, or well see us! We must be 
nearly at Hagrid’s by now!” 

Still working out what she meant, Harry set off at a 
sprint, Hermione behind him. They tore across the 
vegetable gardens to the greenhouses, paused for a 
moment behind them, then set off again, fast as they 
could, skirting around the Whomping Willow, tearing 
toward the shelter of the forest. ... 

Safe in the shadows of the trees, Harry turned 
around; seconds later, Hermione arrived beside him, 
panting. 

“Right,” she gasped. “We need to sneak over to 
Hagrid’s. ... Keep out of sight, Harry. ...” 

They made their way silently through the trees, 
keeping to the very edge of the forest. Then, as they 
glimpsed the front of Hagrid’s house, they heard a 
knock upon his door. They moved quickly behind a 
wide oak trunk and peered out from either side. 

Hagrid had appeared in his doorway, shaking and 
white, looking around to see who had knocked. And 
Harry heard his own voice. 

“It’s us. We’re wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in 
and we can take it off.” 

“Yeh shouldn’ve come!” Hagrid whispered. He stood 
back, then shut the door quickly. 

“This is the weirdest thing we’ve ever done,” Harry 
said fervently. 

“Let’s move along a bit,” Hermione whispered. “We 
need to get nearer to Buckbeak!” 

Page | 444 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




They crept through the trees until they saw the 
nervous hippogriff, tethered to the fence around 
Hagrid’s pumpkin patch. 

“Now?” Harry whispered. 

“No!” said Hermione. “If we steal him now, those 
Committee people will think Hagrid set him free! 

We’ve got to wait until they’ve seen he’s tied outside!” 

“That’s going to give us about sixty seconds,” said 
Harry. This was starting to seem impossible. 

At that moment, there was a crash of breaking china 
from inside Hagrid’s cabin. 

“That’s Hagrid breaking the milk jug,” Hermione 
whispered. “I’m going to find Scabbers in a moment — 



Sure enough, a few minutes later, they heard 
Hermione ’s shriek of surprise. 

“Hermione,” said Harry suddenly, “what if we — we 
just run in there and grab Pettigrew — ” 

“No!” said Hermione in a terrified whisper. “Don’t you 
understand? We’re breaking one of the most 
important wizarding laws! Nobody’s supposed to 
change time, nobody! You heard Dumbledore, if we’re 
seen — ” 

“We’d only be seen by ourselves and Hagrid!” 

“Harry, what do you think you’d do if you saw 
yourself bursting into Hagrid’s house?” said 
Hermione. 



Page | 445 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I’d — I’d think I’d gone mad,” said Harry, “or I’d think 
there was some Dark Magic going on — ” 



“ Exactly ! You wouldn’t understand, you might even 
attack yourself! Don’t you see? Professor McGonagall 
told me what awful things have happened when 
wizards have meddled with time. ... Loads of them 
ended up killing their past or future selves by 
mistake!” 

“Okay!” said Harry. “It was just an idea, I just thought 



But Hermione nudged him and pointed toward the 
castle. Harry moved his head a few inches to get a 
clear view of the distant front doors. Dumbledore, 
Fudge, the old Committee member, and Macnair the 
executioner were coming down the steps. 

“We’re about to come out!” Hermione breathed. 

And sure enough, moments later, Hagrid’s back door 
opened, and Harry saw himself, Ron, and Hermione 
walking out of it with Hagrid. It was, without a doubt, 
the strangest sensation of his life, standing behind 
the tree, and watching himself in the pumpkin patch. 

“It’s okay, Beaky, it’s okay ... ,” Hagrid said to 
Buckbeak. Then he turned to Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione. “Go on. Get goin’.” 

“Hagrid, we can’t — ” 

“Well tell them what really happened — ” 

“They can’t kill him — ” 

“Go! It’s bad enough without you lot in trouble an’ 
all!” 

Page | 446 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry watched the Hermione in the pumpkin patch 
throw the Invisibility Cloak over him and Ron. 

“Go quick. Don’ listen. ...” 

There was a knock on Hagrid’s front door. The 
execution party had arrived. Hagrid turned around 
and headed back into his cabin, leaving the back door 
ajar. Harry watched the grass flatten in patches all 
around the cabin and heard three pairs of feet 
retreating. He, Ron, and Hermione had gone ... but 
the Harry and Hermione hidden in the trees could 
now hear what was happening inside the cabin 
through the back door. 

“Where is the beast?” came the cold voice of Macnair. 

“Out — outside,” Hagrid croaked. 

Harry pulled his head out of sight as Macnair’s face 
appeared at Hagrid’s window, staring out at 
Buckbeak. Then they heard Fudge. 

“We — er — have to read you the official notice of 
execution, Hagrid. I’ll make it quick. And then you 
and Macnair need to sign it. Macnair, you’re 
supposed to listen too, that’s procedure — ” 

Macnair’s face vanished from the window. It was now 
or never. 

“Wait here,” Harry whispered to Hermione. “I’ll do it.” 

As Fudge’s voice started again, Harry darted out from 
behind his tree, vaulted the fence into the pumpkin 
patch, and approached Buckbeak. 

“It is the decision of the Committee for the Disposal of 
Dangerous Creatures that the hippogriff Buckbeak, 

Page | 447 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




hereafter called the condemned, shall be executed on 
the sixth of June at sundown — ” 

Careful not to blink, Harry stared up into Buckbeak’s 
fierce orange eyes once more and bowed. Buckbeak 
sank to his scaly knees and then stood up again. 
Harry began to fumble with the knot of rope tying 
Buckbeak to the fence. 

"... sentenced to execution by beheading, to be carried 
out by the Committee’s appointed executioner, Walden 
Macnair ...” 

“Come on, Buckbeak,” Harry murmured, “come on, 
we’re going to help you. Quietly ... quietly ...” 

"... as witnessed below. Hagrid, you sign here. ...” 

Harry threw all his weight onto the rope, but 
Buckbeak had dug in his front feet. 

“Well, let’s get this over with,” said the reedy voice of 
the Committee member from inside Hagrid’s cabin. 
“Hagrid, perhaps it will be better if you stay inside — ” 

“No, I — I wan’ ter be with him. ... I don’ wan’ him ter 
be alone — ” 

Footsteps echoed from within the cabin. 

“Buckbeak, move\” Harry hissed. 

Harry tugged harder on the rope around Buckbeak’s 
neck. The hippogriff began to walk, rustling its wings 
irritably. They were still ten feet away from the forest, 
in plain view of Hagrid’s back door. 

“One moment, please, Macnair,” came Dumbledore’s 
voice. “You need to sign too.” The footsteps stopped. 

Page | 448 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heaved on the rope. Buckbeak snapped his 
beak and walked a little faster. 



Hermione ’s white face was sticking out from behind a 
tree. 

“Harry, hurry!” she mouthed. 

Harry could still hear Dumbledore’s voice talking from 
within the cabin. He gave the rope another wrench. 
Buckbeak broke into a grudging trot. They had 
reached the trees. ... 

“Quick! Quick!” Hermione moaned, darting out from 
behind her tree, seizing the rope too and adding her 
weight to make Buckbeak move faster. Harry looked 
over his shoulder; they were now blocked from sight; 
they couldn’t see Hagrid’s garden at all. 

“Stop!” he whispered to Hermione. “They might hear 
us — ” 



Hagrid’s back door had opened with a bang. Harry, 
Hermione, and Buckbeak stood quite still; even the 
hippogriff seemed to be listening intently. 

Silence . . . then — 

“Where is it?” said the reedy voice of the Committee 
member. “Where is the beast?” 

“It was tied here!” said the executioner furiously. “I 
saw it! Just here!” 

“How extraordinary,” said Dumbledore. There was a 
note of amusement in his voice. 

“Beaky!” said Hagrid huskily. 

Page | 449 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




There was a swishing noise, and the thud of an axe. 
The executioner seemed to have swung it into the 
fence in anger. And then came the howling, and this 
time they could hear Hagrid ’s words through his sobs. 

“Gone! Gone! Bless his little beak, he’s gone\ Musta 
pulled himself free! Beaky, yeh clever boy!” 

Buckbeak started to strain against the rope, trying to 
get back to Hagrid. Harry and Hermione tightened 
their grip and dug their heels into the forest floor to 
stop him. 

“Someone untied him!” the executioner was snarling. 
“We should search the grounds, the forest — ” 

“Macnair, if Buckbeak has indeed been stolen, do you 
really think the thief will have led him away on foot?” 
said Dumbledore, still sounding amused. “Search the 
skies, if you will. ... Hagrid, I could do with a cup of 
tea. Or a large brandy.” 

“O’ — o’ course, Professor,” said Hagrid, who sounded 
weak with happiness. “Come in, come in. ...” 

Harry and Hermione listened closely. They heard 
footsteps, the soft cursing of the executioner, the 
snap of the door, and then silence once more. 

“Now what?” whispered Harry, looking around. 

“Well have to hide in here,” said Hermione, who 
looked very shaken. “We need to wait until they’ve 
gone back to the castle. Then we wait until it’s safe to 
fly Buckbeak up to Sirius’s window. He won’t be there 
for another couple of hours. ... Oh, this is going to be 
difficult. ...” 



Page | 450 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




She looked nervously over her shoulder into the 
depths of the forest. The sun was setting now. 

“We’re going to have to move,” said Harry, thinking 
hard. “We’ve got to be able to see the Whomping 
Willow, or we won’t know what’s going on.” 

“Okay,” said Hermione, getting a firmer grip on 
Buckbeak’s rope. “But we’ve got to keep out of sight, 
Harry, remember. ...” 

They moved around the edge of the forest, darkness 
falling thickly around them, until they were hidden 
behind a clump of trees through which they could 
make out the Willow. 

“There’s Ron!” said Harry suddenly. 

A dark figure was sprinting across the lawn and its 
shout echoed through the still night air. 

“Get away from him — get away — Scabbers, come 
here — ” 

And then they saw two more figures materialize out of 
nowhere. Harry watched himself and Hermione 
chasing after Ron. Then he saw Ron dive. 

“Gotchcd Get off, you stinking cat — ” 

“There’s Sirius!” said Harry. The great shape of the 
dog had bounded out from the roots of the Willow. 
They saw him bowl Harry over, then seize Ron. ... 

“Looks even worse from here, doesn’t it?” said Harry, 
watching the dog pulling Ron into the roots. “Ouch — 
look, I just got walloped by the tree — and so did you 
— this is weird — ” 



Page | 451 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The Whomping Willow was creaking and lashing out 
with its lower branches; they could see themselves 
darting here and there, trying to reach the trunk. And 
then the tree froze. 

“That was Crookshanks pressing the knot,” said 
Hermione. 

“And there we go ... ,” Harry muttered. “We’re in.” 

The moment they disappeared, the tree began to move 
again. Seconds later, they heard footsteps quite close 
by. Dumbledore, Macnair, Fudge, and the old 
Committee member were making their way up to the 
castle. 

“Right after we’d gone down into the passage!” said 
Hermione. “If only Dumbledore had come with us ...” 

“Macnair and Fudge would’ve come too,” said Harry 
bitterly. “I bet you anything Fudge would’ve told 
Macnair to murder Sirius on the spot. ...” 

They watched the four men climb the castle steps and 
disappear from view. For a few minutes the scene was 
deserted. Then — 

“Here comes Lupin!” said Harry as they saw another 
figure sprinting down the stone steps and haring 
toward the Willow. Harry looked up at the sky. Clouds 
were obscuring the moon completely. 

They watched Lupin seize a broken branch from the 
ground and prod the knot on the trunk. The tree 
stopped fighting, and Lupin, too, disappeared into the 
gap in its roots. 

“If he’d only grabbed the cloak,” said Harry. “It’s just 
lying there. ...” 

Page | 452 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He turned to Hermione. 



“If I just dashed out now and grabbed it, Snape’d 
never be able to get it and — ” 

“Harry, we mustn’t be seen!” 

“How can you stand this?” he asked Hermione 
fiercely. “Just standing here and watching it happen?” 
He hesitated. “I’m going to grab the cloak!” 

“Harry, no!” 

Hermione seized the back of Harry’s robes not a 
moment too soon. Just then, they heard a burst of 
song. It was Hagrid, making his way up to the castle, 
singing at the top of his voice, and weaving slightly as 
he walked. A large bottle was swinging from his 
hands. 

“See?” Hermione whispered. “See what would have 
