/ 




THE RIDDLE HOUSE 

The villagers of Little Hangleton still called it “the 
Riddle House,” even though it had been many years 
since the Riddle family had lived there. It stood on a 
hill overlooking the village, some of its windows 
boarded, tiles missing from its roof, and ivy spreading 
unchecked over its face. Once a fine-looking manor, 
and easily the largest and grandest building for miles 
around, the Riddle House was now damp, derelict, 
and unoccupied. 

The Little Hangletons all agreed that the old house 
was “creepy.” Half a century ago, something strange 
and horrible had happened there, something that the 
older inhabitants of the village still liked to discuss 
when topics for gossip were scarce. The story had 
been picked over so many times, and had been 
embroidered in so many places, that nobody was 
quite sure what the truth was anymore. Every version 
of the tale, however, started in the same place: Fifty 
years before, at daybreak on a fine summer’s 
morning, when the Riddle House had still been well 



Page | 2 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



kept and impressive, a maid had entered the drawing 
room to find all three Riddles dead. 

The maid had run screaming down the hill into the 
village and roused as many people as she could. 

“Lying there with their eyes wide open! Cold as ice! 
Still in their dinner things!” 

The police were summoned, and the whole of Little 
Hangleton had seethed with shocked curiosity and ill- 
disguised excitement. Nobody wasted their breath 
pretending to feel very sad about the Riddles, for they 
had been most unpopular. Elderly Mr. and Mrs. 
Riddle had been rich, snobbish, and rude, and their 
grown-up son, Tom, had been, if anything, worse. All 
the villagers cared about was the identity of their 
murderer — for plainly, three apparently healthy 
people did not all drop dead of natural causes on the 
same night. 

The Hanged Man, the village pub, did a roaring trade 
that night; the whole village seemed to have turned 
out to discuss the murders. They were rewarded for 
leaving their firesides when the Riddles’ cook arrived 
dramatically in their midst and announced to the 
suddenly silent pub that a man called Frank Bryce 
had just been arrested. 

“Frank!” cried several people. “Never!” 

Frank Bryce was the Riddles’ gardener. He lived alone 
in a rundown cottage on the grounds of the Riddle 
House. Frank had come back from the war with a 
very stiff leg and a great dislike of crowds and loud 
noises, and had been working for the Riddles ever 
since. 



Page | 3 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




There was a rush to buy the cook drinks and hear 
more details. 



“Always thought he was odd,” she told the eagerly 
listening villagers, after her fourth sherry. 

“Unfriendly, like. I’m sure if I’ve offered him a cuppa 
once, I’ve offered it a hundred times. Never wanted to 
mix, he didn’t.” 

“Ah, now,” said a woman at the bar, “he had a hard 
war, Frank. He likes the quiet life. That’s no reason to 



“Who else had a key to the back door, then?” barked 
the cook. “There’s been a spare key hanging in the 
gardener’s cottage far back as I can remember! 
Nobody forced the door last night! No broken 
windows! All Frank had to do was creep up to the big 
house while we was all sleeping. ...” 

The villagers exchanged dark looks. 

“I always thought he had a nasty look about him, 
right enough,” grunted a man at the bar. 

“War turned him funny, if you ask me,” said the 
landlord. 

“Told you I wouldn’t like to get on the wrong side of 
Frank, didn’t I, Dot?” said an excited woman in the 
corner. 

“Horrible temper,” said Dot, nodding fervently. “I 
remember, when he was a kid ...” 

By the following morning, hardly anyone in Little 
Hangleton doubted that Frank Bryce had killed the 
Riddles. 



Page | 4 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But over in the neighboring town of Great Hangleton, 
in the dark and dingy police station, Frank was 
stubbornly repeating, again and again, that he was 
innocent, and that the only person he had seen near 
the house on the day of the Riddles’ deaths had been 
a teenage boy, a stranger, dark-haired and pale. 
Nobody else in the village had seen any such boy, and 
the police were quite sure that Frank had invented 
him. 

Then, just when things were looking very serious for 
Frank, the report on the Riddles’ bodies came back 
and changed everything. 

The police had never read an odder report. A team of 
doctors had examined the bodies and had concluded 
that none of the Riddles had been poisoned, stabbed, 
shot, strangled, suffocated, or (as far as they could 
tell) harmed at all. In fact (the report continued, in a 
tone of unmistakable bewilderment), the Riddles all 
appeared to be in perfect health — apart from the fact 
that they were all dead. The doctors did note (as 
though determined to find something wrong with the 
bodies) that each of the Riddles had a look of terror 
upon his or her face — but as the frustrated police 
said, whoever heard of three people being frightened 
to death? 

As there was no proof that the Riddles had been 
murdered at all, the police were forced to let Frank go. 
The Riddles were buried in the Little Hangleton 
churchyard, and their graves remained objects of 
curiosity for a while. To everyone’s surprise, and amid 
a cloud of suspicion, Frank Bryce returned to his 
cottage on the grounds of the Riddle House. 

“ ’S far as I’m concerned, he killed them, and I don’t 
care what the police say,” said Dot in the Hanged 



Page | 5 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Man. “And if he had any decency, he’d leave here, 
knowing as how we knows he did it.” 

But Frank did not leave. He stayed to tend the garden 
for the next family who lived in the Riddle House, and 
then the next — for neither family stayed long. 

Perhaps it was partly because of Frank that the new 
owners said there was a nasty feeling about the place, 
which, in the absence of inhabitants, started to fall 
into disrepair. 

The wealthy man who owned the Riddle House these 
days neither lived there nor put it to any use; they 
said in the village that he kept it for “tax reasons,” 
though nobody was very clear what these might be. 
The wealthy owner continued to pay Frank to do the 
gardening, however. Frank was nearing his seventy- 
seventh birthday now, very deaf, his bad leg stiffer 
than ever, but could be seen pottering around the 
flower beds in fine weather, even though the weeds 
were starting to creep up on him, try as he might to 
suppress them. 

Weeds were not the only things Frank had to contend 
with either. Boys from the village made a habit of 
throwing stones through the windows of the Riddle 
House. They rode their bicycles over the lawns Frank 
worked so hard to keep smooth. Once or twice, they 
broke into the old house for a dare. They knew that 
old Frank’s devotion to the house and grounds 
amounted almost to an obsession, and it amused 
them to see him limping across the garden, 
brandishing his stick and yelling croakily at them. 
Frank, for his part, believed the boys tormented him 
because they, like their parents and grandparents, 
thought him a murderer. So when Frank awoke one 
night in August and saw something very odd up at 
the old house, he merely assumed that the boys had 
gone one step further in their attempts to punish him. 
Page | 6 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




It was Frank’s bad leg that woke him; it was paining 
him worse than ever in his old age. He got up and 
limped downstairs into the kitchen with the idea of 
refilling his hot-water bottle to ease the stiffness in 
his knee. Standing at the sink, filling the kettle, he 
looked up at the Riddle House and saw lights 
glimmering in its upper windows. Frank knew at once 
what was going on. The boys had broken into the 
house again, and judging by the flickering quality of 
the light, they had started a fire. 

Frank had no telephone, and in any case, he had 
deeply mistrusted the police ever since they had 
taken him in for questioning about the Riddles’ 
deaths. He put down the kettle at once, hurried back 
upstairs as fast as his bad leg would allow, and was 
soon back in his kitchen, fully dressed and removing 
a rusty old key from its hook by the door. He picked 
up his walking stick, which was propped against the 
wall, and set off into the night. 

The front door of the Riddle House bore no sign of 
being forced, nor did any of the windows. Frank 
limped around to the back of the house until he 
reached a door almost completely hidden by ivy, took 
out the old key, put it into the lock, and opened the 
door noiselessly. 

He let himself into the cavernous kitchen. Frank had 
not entered it for many years; nevertheless, although 
it was very dark, he remembered where the door into 
the hall was, and he groped his way toward it, his 
nostrils full of the smell of decay, ears pricked for any 
sound of footsteps or voices from overhead. He 
reached the hall, which was a little lighter owing to 
the large mullioned windows on either side of the 
front door, and started to climb the stairs, blessing 
the dust that lay thick upon the stone, because it 
muffled the sound of his feet and stick. 

Page | 7 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




On the landing, Frank turned right, and saw at once 
where the intruders were: At the very end of the 
passage a door stood ajar, and a flickering light shone 
through the gap, casting a long sliver of gold across 
the black floor. Frank edged closer and closer, 
grasping his walking stick firmly. Several feet from 
the entrance, he was able to see a narrow slice of the 
room beyond. 

The fire, he now saw, had been lit in the grate. This 
surprised him. Then he stopped moving and listened 
intently, for a man’s voice spoke within the room; it 
sounded timid and fearful. 

“There is a little more in the bottle, My Lord, if you 
are still hungry.” 

“Later,” said a second voice. This too belonged to a 
man — but it was strangely high-pitched, and cold as 
a sudden blast of icy wind. Something about that 
voice made the sparse hairs on the back of Frank’s 
neck stand up. “Move me closer to the fire, Wormtail.” 

Frank turned his right ear toward the door, the better 
to hear. There came the clink of a bottle being put 
down upon some hard surface, and then the dull 
scraping noise of a heavy chair being dragged across 
the floor. Frank caught a glimpse of a small man, his 
back to the door, pushing the chair into place. He was 
wearing a long black cloak, and there was a bald 
patch at the back of his head. Then he went out of 
sight again. 

“Where is Nagini?” said the cold voice. 

“I — I don’t know, My Lord,” said the first voice 
nervously. “She set out to explore the house, I think. 



Page | 8 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You will milk her before we retire, Wormtail,” said 
the second voice. “I will need feeding in the night. The 
journey has tired me greatly.” 

Brow furrowed, Frank inclined his good ear still closer 
to the door, listening very hard. There was a pause, 
and then the man called Wormtail spoke again. 

“My Lord, may I ask how long we are going to stay 
here?” 

“A week,” said the cold voice. “Perhaps longer. The 
place is moderately comfortable, and the plan cannot 
proceed yet. It would be foolish to act before the 
Quidditch World Cup is over.” 

Frank inserted a gnarled finger into his ear and 
rotated it. Owing, no doubt, to a buildup of earwax, 
he had heard the word “Quidditch,” which was not a 
word at all. 

“The — the Quidditch World Cup, My Lord?” said 
Wormtail. (Frank dug his finger still more vigorously 
into his ear.) “Forgive me, but — I do not understand 
— why should we wait until the World Cup is over?” 

“Because, fool, at this very moment wizards are 
pouring into the country from all over the world, and 
every meddler from the Ministry of Magic will be on 
duty, on the watch for signs of unusual activity, 
checking and double-checking identities. They will be 
obsessed with security, lest the Muggles notice 
anything. So we wait.” 

Frank stopped trying to clear out his ear. He had 
distinctly heard the words “Ministry of Magic,” 
“wizards,” and “Muggles.” Plainly, each of these 
expressions meant something secret, and Frank could 
think of only two sorts of people who would speak in 
Page | 9 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




code: spies and criminals. Frank tightened his hold 
on his walking stick once more, and listened more 
closely still. 

“Your Lordship is still determined, then?” Wormtail 
said quietly. 

“Certainly I am determined, Wormtail.” There was a 
note of menace in the cold voice now. 

A slight pause followed — and then Wormtail spoke, 
the words tumbling from him in a rush, as though he 
was forcing himself to say this before he lost his 
nerve. 

“It could be done without Harry Potter, My Lord.” 

Another pause, more protracted, and then — 

“Without Harry Potter?” breathed the second voice 
softly. “I see ...” 

“My Lord, I do not say this out of concern for the boy!” 
said Wormtail, his voice rising squeakily. “The boy is 
nothing to me, nothing at all! It is merely that if we 
were to use another witch or wizard — any wizard — 
the thing could be done so much more quickly! If you 
allowed me to leave you for a short while — you know 
that I can disguise myself most effectively — I could 
be back here in as little as two days with a suitable 
person — ” 

“I could use another wizard,” said the cold voice 
softly, “that is true. ...” 

“My Lord, it makes sense,” said Wormtail, sounding 
thoroughly relieved now. “Laying hands on Harry 
Potter would be so difficult, he is so well protected — ” 



Page | 10 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“And so you volunteer to go and fetch me a 
substitute? I wonder . . . perhaps the task of nursing 
me has become wearisome for you, “Wormtail? Could 
this suggestion of abandoning the plan be nothing 
more than an attempt to desert me?” 

“My Lord! I — I have no wish to leave you, none at all 



“Do not lie to me!” hissed the second voice. “I can 
always tell, Wormtail! You are regretting that you ever 
returned to me. I revolt you. I see you flinch when you 
look at me, feel you shudder when you touch me. ...” 

“No! My devotion to Your Lordship — ” 

“Your devotion is nothing more than cowardice. You 
would not be here if you had anywhere else to go. 

How am I to survive without you, when I need feeding 
every few hours? Who is to milk Nagini?” 

“But you seem so much stronger, My Lord — ” 

“Liar,” breathed the second voice. “I am no stronger, 
and a few days alone would be enough to rob me of 
the little health I have regained under your clumsy 
care. Silencel” 

Wormtail, who had been sputtering incoherently, fell 
silent at once. For a few seconds, Frank could hear 
nothing but the fire crackling. Then the second man 
spoke once more, in a whisper that was almost a hiss. 

“I have my reasons for using the boy, as I have 
already explained to you, and I will use no other. I 
have waited thirteen years. A few more months will 
make no difference. As for the protection surrounding 
the boy, I believe my plan will be effective. All that is 
needed is a little courage from you, Wormtail — 

Page | 11 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




courage you will find, unless you wish to feel the full 
extent of Lord Voldemort’s wrath — ” 

“My Lord, I must speak!” said Wormtail, panic in his 
voice now. “All through our journey I have gone over 
the plan in my head — My Lord, Bertha Jorkins’s 
disappearance will not go unnoticed for long, and if 
we proceed, if I murder — ” 

“IP” whispered the second voice. “If? If you follow the 
plan, Wormtail, the Ministry need never know that 
anyone else has died. You will do it quietly and 
without fuss; I only wish that I could do it myself, but 
in my present condition ... Come, Wormtail, one more 
death and our path to Harry Potter is clear. I am not 
asking you to do it alone. By that time, my faithful 
servant will have rejoined us — ” 

“I am a faithful servant,” said Wormtail, the merest 
trace of sullenness in his voice. 

“Wormtail, I need somebody with brains, somebody 
whose loyalty has never wavered, and you, 
unfortunately, fulfill neither requirement.” 

“I found you,” said Wormtail, and there was definitely 
a sulky edge to his voice now. “I was the one who 
found you. I brought you Bertha Jorkins.” 

“That is true,” said the second man, sounding 
amused. “A stroke of brilliance I would not have 
thought possible from you, Wormtail — though, if 
truth be told, you were not aware how useful she 
would be when you caught her, were you?” 

“I — I thought she might be useful, My Lord — ” 

“Liar,” said the second voice again, the cruel 
amusement more pronounced than ever. “However, I 

Page | 12 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




do not deny that her information was invaluable. 
Without it, I could never have formed our plan, and 
for that, you will have your reward, Wormtail. I will 
allow you to perform an essential task for me, one 
that many of my followers would give their right 
hands to perform. ...” 

“R-really, My Lord? What — ?” Wormtail sounded 
terrified again. 

“Ah, Wormtail, you don’t want me to spoil the 
surprise? Your part will come at the very end ... but I 
promise you, you will have the honor of being just as 
useful as Bertha Jorkins.” 

“You ... you ...” Wormtail’s voice suddenly sounded 
hoarse, as though his mouth had gone very dry. “You 
. . . are going ... to kill me too?” 

“Wormtail, Wormtail,” said the cold voice silkily, “why 
would I kill you? I killed Bertha because I had to. She 
was fit for nothing after my questioning, quite 
useless. In any case, awkward questions would have 
been asked if she had gone back to the Ministry with 
the news that she had met you on her holidays. 
Wizards who are supposed to be dead would do well 
not to run into Ministry of Magic witches at wayside 
inns. ...” 

Wormtail muttered something so quietly that Frank 
could not hear it, but it made the second man laugh 
— an entirely mirthless laugh, cold as his speech. 

“We could have modified her memory? But Memory 
Charms can be broken by a powerful wizard, as I 
proved when I questioned her. It would be an insult to 
her memory not to use the information I extracted 
from her, Wormtail.” 



Page | 13 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Out in the corridor, Frank suddenly became aware 
that the hand gripping his walking stick was slippery 
with sweat. The man with the cold voice had killed a 
woman. He was talking about it without any kind of 
remorse — with amusement. He was dangerous — a 
madman. And he was planning more murders — this 
boy, Harry Potter, whoever he was — was in danger — 

Frank knew what he must do. Now, if ever, was the 
time to go to the police. He would creep out of the 
house and head straight for the telephone box in the 
village . . . but the cold voice was speaking again, and 
Frank remained where he was, frozen to the spot, 
listening with all his might. 

“One more murder . . . my faithful servant at Hogwarts 
... Harry Potter is as good as mine, Wormtail. It is 
decided. There will be no more argument. But quiet ... 
I think I hear Nagini. ...” 

And the second man’s voice changed. He started 
making noises such as Frank had never heard before; 
he was hissing and spitting without drawing breath. 
Frank thought he must be having some sort of fit or 
seizure. 

And then Frank heard movement behind him in the 
dark passageway. He turned to look, and found 
himself paralyzed with fright. 

Something was slithering toward him along the dark 
corridor floor, and as it drew nearer to the sliver of 
firelight, he realized with a thrill of terror that it was a 
gigantic snake, at least twelve feet long. Horrified, 
transfixed, Frank stared as its undulating body cut a 
wide, curving track through the thick dust on the 
floor, coming closer and closer — What was he to do? 
The only means of escape was into the room where 



Page | 14 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




two men sat plotting murder, yet if he stayed where 
he was the snake would surely kill him — 

But before he had made his decision, the snake was 
level with him, and then, incredibly, miraculously, it 
was passing; it was following the spitting, hissing 
noises made by the cold voice beyond the door, and in 
seconds, the tip of its diamond-patterned tail had 
vanished through the gap. 

There was sweat on Frank’s forehead now, and the 
hand on the walking stick was trembling. Inside the 
room, the cold voice was continuing to hiss, and 
Frank was visited by a strange idea, an impossible 
idea. . . . This man could talk to snakes. 

Frank didn’t understand what was going on. He 
wanted more than anything to be back in his bed with 
his hot-water bottle. The problem was that his legs 
didn’t seem to want to move. As he stood there 
shaking and trying to master himself, the cold voice 
switched abruptly to English again. 

“Nagini has interesting news, Wormtail,” it said. 

“In-indeed, My Lord?” said Wormtail. 

“Indeed, yes,” said the voice. “According to Nagini, 
there is an old Muggle standing right outside this 
room, listening to every word we say.” 

Frank didn’t have a chance to hide himself. There 
were footsteps, and then the door of the room was 
flung wide open. 

A short, balding man with graying hair, a pointed 
nose, and small, watery eyes stood before Frank, a 
mixture of fear and alarm in his face. 



Page | 15 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Invite him inside, Wormtail. Where are your 
manners?” 

The cold voice was coming from the ancient armchair 
before the fire, but Frank couldn’t see the speaker. 
The snake, on the other hand, was curled up on the 
rotting hearth rug, like some horrible travesty of a pet 
dog. 

Wormtail beckoned Frank into the room. Though still 
deeply shaken, Frank took a firmer grip upon his 
walking stick and limped over the threshold. 

The fire was the only source of light in the room; it 
cast long, spidery shadows upon the walls. Frank 
stared at the back of the armchair; the man inside it 
seemed to be even smaller than his servant, for Frank 
couldn’t even see the back of his head. 

“You heard everything, Muggle?” said the cold voice. 

“What’s that you’re calling me?” said Frank defiantly, 
for now that he was inside the room, now that the 
time had come for some sort of action, he felt braver; 
it had always been so in the war. 

“I am calling you a Muggle,” said the voice coolly. “It 
means that you are not a wizard.” 

“I don’t know what you mean by wizard,” said Frank, 
his voice growing steadier. “All I know is I’ve heard 
enough to interest the police tonight, I have. You’ve 
done murder and you’re planning more! And I’ll tell 
you this too,” he added, on a sudden inspiration, “my 
wife knows I’m up here, and if I don’t come back — ” 

“You have no wife,” said the cold voice, very quietly. 
“Nobody knows you are here. You told nobody that 



Page | 16 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




you were coming. Do not lie to Lord Voldemort, 
Muggle, for he knows ... he always knows. ...” 

“Is that right?” said Frank roughly. “Lord, is it? Well, I 
don’t think much of your manners, My Lord. Turn 
’round and face me like a man, why don’t you?” 

“But I am not a man, Muggle,” said the cold voice, 
barely audible now over the crackling of the flames. “I 
am much, much more than a man. However ... why 
not? I will face you. ... Wormtail, come turn my chair 
around.” 

The servant gave a whimper. 

“You heard me, Wormtail.” 

Slowly, with his face screwed up, as though he would 
rather have done anything than approach his master 
and the hearth rug where the snake lay, the small 
man walked forward and began to turn the chair. The 
snake lifted its ugly triangular head and hissed 
slightly as the legs of the chair snagged on its rug. 

And then the chair was facing Frank, and he saw 
what was sitting in it. His walking stick fell to the 
floor with a clatter. He opened his mouth and let out 
a scream. He was screaming so loudly that he never 
heard the words the thing in the chair spoke as it 
raised a wand. There was a flash of green light, a 
rushing sound, and Frank Bryce crumpled. He was 
dead before he hit the floor. 

Two hundred miles away, the boy called Harry Potter 
woke with a start. 



Page | 17 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE SCAR 

Harry lay flat on his back, breathing hard as though 
he had been running. He had awoken from a vivid 
dream with his hands pressed over his face. The old 
scar on his forehead, which was shaped like a bolt of 
lightning, was burning beneath his fingers as though 
someone had just pressed a white-hot wire to his 
skin. 

He sat up, one hand still on his scar, the other 
reaching out in the darkness for his glasses, which 
were on the bedside table. He put them on and his 
bedroom came into clearer focus, lit by a faint, misty 
orange light that was filtering through the curtains 
from the street lamp outside the window. 

Harry ran his fingers over the scar again. It was still 
painful. He turned on the lamp beside him, scrambled 
out of bed, crossed the room, opened his wardrobe, 
and peered into the mirror on the inside of the door. A 
skinny boy of fourteen looked back at him, his bright 
green eyes puzzled under his untidy black hair. He 



Page | 18 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



examined the lightning-bolt scar of his reflection more 
closely. It looked normal, but it was still stinging. 

Harry tried to recall what he had been dreaming 
about before he had awoken. It had seemed so real. ... 
There had been two people he knew and one he 
didn’t. ... He concentrated hard, frowning, trying to 
remember. ... 

The dim picture of a darkened room came to him. ... 
There had been a snake on a hearth rug ... a small 
man called Peter, nicknamed Wormtail ... and a cold, 
high voice ... the voice of Lord Voldemort. Harry felt 
as though an ice cube had slipped down into his 
stomach at the very thought. ... 

He closed his eyes tightly and tried to remember what 
Voldemort had looked like, but it was impossible. ... 
All Harry knew was that at the moment when 
Voldemort’s chair had swung around, and he, Harry, 
had seen what was sitting in it, he had felt a spasm of 
horror, which had awoken him ... or had that been 
the pain in his scar? 

And who had the old man been? For there had 
definitely been an old man; Harry had watched him 
fall to the ground. It was all becoming confused. 

Harry put his face into his hands, blocking out his 
bedroom, trying to hold on to the picture of that dimly 
lit room, but it was like trying to keep water in his 
cupped hands; the details were now trickling away as 
fast as he tried to hold on to them. ... Voldemort and 
Wormtail had been talking about someone they had 
killed, though Harry could not remember the name . . . 
and they had been plotting to kill someone else . . . 
him). 

Harry took his face out of his hands, opened his eyes, 
and stared around his bedroom as though expecting 

Page | 19 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




to see something unusual there. As it happened, 
there were an extraordinary number of unusual 
things in this room. A large wooden trunk stood open 
at the foot of his bed, revealing a cauldron, 
broomstick, black robes, and assorted spellbooks. 
Rolls of parchment littered that part of his desk that 
was not taken up by the large, empty cage in which 
his snowy owl, Hedwig, usually perched. On the floor 
beside his bed a book lay open; Harry had been 
reading it before he fell asleep last night. The pictures 
in this book were all moving. Men in bright orange 
robes were zooming in and out of sight on 
broomsticks, throwing a red ball to one another. 

Harry walked over to the book, picked it up, and 
watched one of the wizards score a spectacular goal 
by putting the ball through a fifty-foot-high hoop. 

Then he snapped the book shut. Even Quidditch — in 
Harry’s opinion, the best sport in the world — 
couldn’t distract him at the moment. He placed Flying 
with the Cannons on his bedside table, crossed to the 
window, and drew back the curtains to survey the 
street below. 

Privet Drive looked exactly as a respectable suburban 
street would be expected to look in the early hours of 
Saturday morning. All the curtains were closed. As far 
as Harry could see through the darkness, there 
wasn’t a living creature in sight, not even a cat. 

And yet . . . and yet . . . Harry went restlessly back to 
the bed and sat down on it, running a finger over his 
scar again. It wasn’t the pain that bothered him; 

Harry was no stranger to pain and injury. He had lost 
all the bones from his right arm once and had them 
painfully regrown in a night. The same arm had been 
pierced by a venomous foot-long fang not long 
afterward. Only last year Harry had fallen fifty feet 
from an airborne broomstick. He was used to bizarre 
Page | 20 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




accidents and injuries; they were unavoidable if you 
attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry 
and had a knack for attracting a lot of trouble. 

No, the thing that was bothering Harry was that the 
last time his scar had hurt him, it had been because 
Voldemort had been close by. ... But Voldemort 
couldn’t be here, now. ... The idea of Voldemort 
lurking in Privet Drive was absurd, impossible. ... 

Harry listened closely to the silence around him. Was 
he half-expecting to hear the creak of a stair or the 
swish of a cloak? And then he jumped slightly as he 
heard his cousin Dudley give a tremendous grunting 
snore from the next room. 

Harry shook himself mentally; he was being stupid. 
There was no one in the house with him except Uncle 
Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley, and they were 
plainly still asleep, their dreams untroubled and 
painless. 

Asleep was the way Harry liked the Dursleys best; it 
wasn’t as though they were ever any help to him 
awake. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley were 
Harry’s only living relatives. They were Muggles who 
hated and despised magic in any form, which meant 
that Harry was about as welcome in their house as 
dry rot. They had explained away Harry’s long 
absences at Hogwarts over the last three years by 
telling everyone that he went to St. Brutus’s Secure 
Center for Incurably Criminal Boys. They knew 
perfectly well that, as an underage wizard, Harry 
wasn’t allowed to use magic outside Hogwarts, but 
they were still apt to blame him for anything that 
went wrong about the house. Harry had never been 
able to confide in them or tell them anything about 
his life in the wizarding world. The very idea of going 
to them when they awoke, and telling them about his 
Page | 21 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




scar hurting him, and about his worries about 
Voldemort, was laughable. 

And yet it was because of Voldemort that Harry had 
come to live with the Dursleys in the first place. If it 
hadn’t been for Voldemort, Harry would not have had 
the lightning scar on his forehead. If it hadn’t been for 
Voldemort, Harry would still have had parents. ... 

Harry had been a year old the night that Voldemort — 
the most powerful Dark wizard for a century, a wizard 
who had been gaining power steadily for eleven years 
— arrived at his house and killed his father and 
mother. Voldemort had then turned his wand on 
Harry; he had performed the curse that had disposed 
of many full-grown witches and wizards in his steady 
rise to power — and, incredibly, it had not worked. 
Instead of killing the small boy, the curse had 
rebounded upon Voldemort. Harry had survived with 
nothing but a lightning-shaped cut on his forehead, 
and Voldemort had been reduced to something barely 
alive. His powers gone, his life almost extinguished, 
Voldemort had fled; the terror in which the secret 
community of witches and wizards had lived for so 
long had lifted, Voldemort’s followers had disbanded, 
and Harry Potter had become famous. 

It had been enough of a shock for Harry to discover, 
on his eleventh birthday, that he was a wizard; it had 
been even more disconcerting to find out that 
everyone in the hidden wizarding world knew his 
name. Harry had arrived at Hogwarts to find that 
heads turned and whispers followed him wherever he 
went. But he was used to it now: At the end of this 
summer, he would be starting his fourth year at 
Hogwarts, and Harry was already counting the days 
until he would be back at the castle again. 



Page | 22 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But there was still a fortnight to go before he went 
back to school. He looked hopelessly around his room 
again, and his eye paused on the birthday cards his 
two best friends had sent him at the end of July. 

What would they say if Harry wrote to them and told 
them about his scar hurting? 

At once, Hermione Granger’s voice seemed to fill his 
head, shrill and panicky. 

“ Your scar hurt? Harry, that’s really serious. . . . Write 
to Professor Dumbledorel And I’ll go and check 
Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions. ... Maybe 
there’s something in there about curse scars. ...” 
