corridor, and a couple of minutes later was jumping 
the last few stairs to join Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and 
Luna, who were huddled together at the end of 
Umbridge’s corridor. 

“Got it,” he panted. “Ready to go, then?” 

“All right,” whispered Hermione as a gang of loud 
sixth years passed them. “So Ron — you go and head 
Umbridge off... Ginny, Luna, if you can start moving 
people out of the corridor. . . Harry and I will get the 
cloak on and wait until the coast is clear...” 

Ron strode away, his bright red hair visible right to 
the end of the passage. Meanwhile, Ginny’s equally 
vivid head bobbed between the jostling students 
surrounding them in the other direction, trailed by 
Luna’s blonde one. 

“Get over here,” muttered Hermione, tugging at 
Harry’s wrist and pulling him back into a recess 
where the ugly stone head of a medieval wizard stood 
muttering to itself on a column. “Are — are you sure 
you’re okay, Harry? You’re still very pale...” 

“I’m fine,” he said shortly, tugging the Invisibility 
Cloak from out of his bag. In truth, his scar was 
aching, but not so badly that he thought Voldemort 
had yet dealt Sirius a fatal blow. It had hurt much 
worse than this when Voldemort had been punishing 
Avery. . . 



Page | 942Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Here,” he said. He threw the Invisibility Cloak over 
both of them and they stood listening carefully over 
the Latin mumblings of the bust in front of them. 

“You can’t come down here!” Ginny was calling to the 
crowd. “No, sorry, you’re going to have to go round by 
the swiveling staircase, someone’s let off Garroting 
Gas just along here — ” 

They could hear people complaining; one surly voice 
said, “I can’t see no gas ...” 

“That’s because it’s colorless,” said Ginny in a 
convincingly exasperated voice, “but if you want to 
walk through it, carry on, then we’ll have your body 
as proof for the next idiot who didn’t believe us...” 

Slowly the crowd thinned. The news about the 
Garroting Gas seemed to have spread — people were 
not coming this way anymore. When at last the 
surrounding area was quite clear, Hermione said 
quietly, “I think that’s as good as we’re going to get, 
Harry — come on, let’s do it.” 

Together they moved forward, covered by the cloak. 
Luna was standing with her back to them at the far 
end of the corridor. As they passed Ginny, Hermione 
whispered, “Good one ... don’t forget the signal ...” 

“What’s the signal?” muttered Harry, as they 
approached Umbridge’s door. 

“A loud chorus of Weasley Is Our King’ if they see 
Umbridge coming,” replied Hermione, as Harry 
inserted the blade of Sirius’s knife in the crack 
between door and wall. The lock clicked open, and 
they entered the office. 



Page | 943Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The garish kittens were basking in the late afternoon 
sunshine warming their plates, but otherwise the 
office was as still and empty as last time. Hermione 
breathed a sigh of relief. 

“I thought she might have added extra security after 
the second niffler...” 

They pulled off the cloak. Hermione hurried over to 
the window and stood out of sight, peering down into 
the grounds with her wand out. Harry dashed over to 
the fireplace, seized the pot of Floo powder, and threw 
a pinch into the grate, causing emerald flames to 
burst into life there. He knelt down quickly, thrust his 
head into the dancing fire, and cried, “Number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place!” 

His head began to spin as though he had just got off a 
fairground ride though his knees remained firmly 
planted upon the cold office floor. He kept his eyes 
screwed up against the whirling ash, and when the 
spinning stopped, he opened them to find himself 
looking out upon the long, cold kitchen of Grimmauld 
Place. 

There was nobody there. He had expected this, yet 
was not prepared for the molten wave of dread and 
panic that seemed to burst through his stomach floor 
at the sight of the deserted room. 

“Sirius?” he shouted. “Sirius, are you there?” 

His voice echoed around the room, but there was no 
answer except a tiny scuffing sound to the right of the 
fire. 

“Who’s there?” he called, wondering whether it was 
just a mouse. 



Page | 944Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Kreacher the house-elf came creeping into view. He 
looked highly delighted about something, though he 
seemed to have recently sustained a nasty injury to 
both hands, which were heavily bandaged. 

“It’s the Potter boy’s head in the fire,” Kreacher 
informed the empty kitchen, stealing furtive, oddly 
triumphant glances at Harry. “What has he come for, 
Kreacher wonders?” 

“Where’s Sirius, Kreacher?” Harry demanded. 

The house-elf gave a wheezy chuckle. “Master has 
gone out, Harry Potter.” 

“Where’s he gone? Where’s he gone, Kreacher?” 
Kreacher merely cackled. 

“I’m warning you!” said Harry, fully aware that his 
scope for inflicting punishment upon Kreacher was 
almost nonexistent in this position. “What about 
Lupin? Mad-Eye? Any of them, are any of them here?” 

“Nobody here but Kreacher!” said the elf gleefully, and 
turning away from Harry he began to walk slowly 
toward the door at the end of the kitchen. “Kreacher 
thinks he will have a little chat with his Mistress now, 
yes, he hasn’t had a chance in a long time, Kreacher’s 
Master has been keeping him away from her — ” 

“Where has Sirius gone?” Harry yelled after the elf. 
“Kreacher, has he gone to the Department of 
Mysteries?” 

Kreacher stopped in his tracks. Harry could just 
make out the back of his bald head through the forest 
of chair legs before him. 



Page | 945Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Master does not tell poor Kreacher where he is 
going,” said the elf quietly. 

“But you know!” shouted Harry. “Don’t you? You 
know where he is!” 

There was a moment’s silence, then the elf let out his 
loudest cackle yet. “Master will not come back from 
the Department of Mysteries!” he said gleefully. 
“Kreacher and his Mistress are alone again!” 

And he scurried forward and disappeared through the 
door to the hall. 

“You — !” 



But before he could utter a single curse or insult, 
Harry felt a great pain at the top of his head. He 
inhaled a lot of ash and, choking, found himself being 
dragged backward through the flames until, with a 
horrible abruptness, he was staring up into the wide, 
pallid face of Professor Umbridge, who had dragged 
him backward out of the fire by the hair and was now 
bending his neck back as far as it would go as though 
she was going to slit his throat. 

“You think,” she whispered, bending Harry’s neck 
back even farther, so that he was looking up at the 
ceiling above him, “that after two nifflers I was going 
to let one more foul, scavenging little creature enter 
my office without my knowledge? I had Stealth 
Sensoring Spells placed all around my doorway after 
the last one got in, you foolish boy. Take his wand,” 
she barked at someone he could not see, and he felt a 
hand grope inside the chest pocket of his robes and 
remove the wand. “Hers too ...” 



Page | 946Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heard a scuffle over by the door and knew that 
Hermione had just had her wand wrested from her as 
well. 

“I want to know why you are in my office,” said 
Umbridge, shaking the fist clutching his hair so that 
he staggered. 

“I was — trying to get my Firebolt!” Harry croaked. 

“Liar.” She shook his head again. “Your Firebolt is 
under strict guard in the dungeons, as you very well 
know, Potter. You had your head in my fire. With 
whom have you been communicating?” 

“No one — ” said Harry, trying to pull away from her. 
He felt several hairs part company with his scalp. 

“LiaA” shouted Umbridge. She threw him from her, 
and he slammed into the desk. Now he could see 
Hermione pinioned against the wall by Millicent 
Bulstrode. Malfoy was leaning on the windowsill, 
smirking as he threw Harry’s wand into the air one- 
handed and then caught it again. 

There was a commotion outside and several large 
Slytherins entered, each gripping Ron, Ginny, Luna, 
and — to Harry’s bewilderment — Neville, who was 
trapped in a stranglehold by Crabbe and looked in 
imminent danger of suffocation. All four of them had 
been gagged. 

“Got ’em all,” said Warrington, shoving Ron roughly 
forward into the room. “ That one.” he poked a thick 
finger at Neville, “tried to stop me taking her,” he 
pointed at Ginny, who was trying to kick the shins of 
the large Slytherin girl holding her, “so I brought him 
along too.” 



Page | 947Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Good, good,” said Umbridge, watching Ginny’s 
struggles. “Well, it looks as though Hogwarts will 
shortly be a Weasley-free zone, doesn’t it?” 

Malfoy laughed loudly and sycophantically. Umbridge 
gave her wide, complacent smile and settled herself 
into a chintz-covered armchair, blinking up at her 
captives like a toad in a flowerbed. 

“So, Potter,” she said. “You stationed lookouts around 
my office and you sent this buffoon,” she nodded at 
Ron, and Malfoy laughed even louder, “to tell me the 
poltergeist was wreaking havoc in the Transfiguration 
department when I knew perfectly well that he was 
busy smearing ink on the eyepieces of all the school 
telescopes, Mr. Filch having just informed me so. 

“Clearly, it was very important for you to talk to 
somebody. Was it Albus Dumbledore? Or the half- 
breed, Hagrid? I doubt it was Minerva McGonagall, I 
hear she is still too ill to talk to anyone...” 

Malfoy and a few of the other members of the 
Inquisitorial Squad laughed some more at that. Harry 
found he was so full of rage and hatred he was 
shaking. 

“It’s none of your business who I talk to,” he snarled. 

Umbridge’s slack face seemed to tighten. 

“Very well,” she said in her most dangerous and 
falsely sweet voice. “Very well, Mr. Potter ... I offered 
you the chance to tell me freely. You refused. I have 
no alternative but to force you. Draco — fetch 
Professor Snape.” 

Malfoy stowed Harry’s wand inside his robes and left 
the room smirking, but Harry hardly noticed. He had 

Page | 948Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




just realized something; he could not believe he had 
been so stupid as to forget it. He had thought that all 
the members of the Order, all those who could help 
him save Sirius, were gone — but he had been wrong. 
There was still a member of the Order of the Phoenix 
at Hogwarts — Snape. 

There was silence in the office except for the 
fidgetings and scufflings resultant from the 
Slytherins’ efforts to keep Ron and the others under 
control. Ron’s lip was bleeding onto Umbridge’s carpet 
as he struggled against Warrington’s half nelson. 
Ginny was still trying to stamp on the feet of the 
sixth-year girl who had both her upper arms in a tight 
grip. Neville was turning steadily more purple in the 
face while tugging at Crabbe’s arms, and Hermione 
was attempting vainly to throw Millicent Bulstrode off 
her. Luna, however, stood limply by the side of her 
captor, gazing vaguely out of the window as though 
rather bored by the proceedings. 

Harry looked back at Umbridge, who was watching 
him closely. He kept his face deliberately smooth and 
blank as footsteps were heard in the corridor outside 
and Draco Malfoy came back into the room, holding 
open the door for Snape. 

“You wanted to see me, Headmistress?” said Snape, 
looking around at all the pairs of struggling students 
with an expression of complete indifference. 

“Ah, Professor Snape,” said Umbridge, smiling widely 
and standing up again. “Yes, I would like another 
bottle of Veritaserum, as quick as you can, please.” 

“You took my last bottle to interrogate Potter,” he 
said, observing her coolly through his greasy curtains 
of black hair. “Surely you did not use it all? I told you 
that three drops would be sufficient.” 

Page | 949Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Umbridge flushed. 

“You can make some more, can’t you?” she said, her 
voice becoming more sweetly girlish as it always did 
when she was furious. 

“Certainly,” said Snape, his lip curling. “It takes a full 
moon cycle to mature, so I should have it ready for 
you in around a month.” 

“A month?” squawked Umbridge, swelling toadishly. 

“A month? But I need it this evening, Snape! I have 
just found Potter using my fire to communicate with a 
person or persons unknown!” 

“Really?” said Snape, showing his first, faint sign of 
interest as he looked around at Harry. “Well, it 
doesn’t surprise me. Potter has never shown much 
inclination to follow school rules.” 

His cold, dark eyes were boring into Harry’s, who met 
his gaze unflinchingly, concentrating hard on what he 
had seen in his dream, willing Snape to read it in his 
mind, to understand . . . 

“I wish to interrogate him!” shouted Umbridge angrily, 
and Snape looked away from Harry back into her 
furiously quivering face. “I wish you to provide me 
with a potion that will force him to tell me the truth!” 

“I have already told you,” said Snape smoothly, “that I 
have no further stocks of Veritaserum. Unless you 
wish to poison Potter — and I assure you I would 
have the greatest sympathy with you if you did — I 
cannot help you. The only trouble is that most 
venoms act too fast to give the victim much time for 
truth-telling...” 



Page | 950Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Snape looked back at Harry, who stared at him, 
frantic to communicate without words. 

Voldemort’s got Sirius in the Department of Mysteries, 
he thought desperately. Voldemort’s got Sirius — 

“You are on probation!” shrieked Professor Umbridge, 
and Snape looked back at her, his eyebrows slightly 
raised. “You are being deliberately unhelpful! I 
expected better, Lucius Malfoy always speaks most 
highly of you! Now get out of my office!” 

Snape gave her an ironic bow and turned to leave. 
Harry knew his last chance of letting the Order know 
what was going on was walking out of the door. 

“He’s got Padfoot!” he shouted. “He’s got Padfoot at 
the place where it’s hidden!” 

Snape had stopped with his hand on Umbridge’s door 
handle. 

“Padfoot?” cried Professor Umbridge, looking eagerly 
from Harry to Snape. “What is Padfoot? Where what is 
hidden? What does he mean, Snape?” 

Snape looked around at Harry. His face was 
inscrutable. Harry could not tell whether he had 
understood or not, but he did not dare speak more 
plainly in front of Umbridge. 

“I have no idea,” said Snape coldly. “Potter, when I 
want nonsense shouted at me I shall give you a 
Babbling Beverage. And Crabbe, loosen your hold a 
little, if Longbottom suffocates it will mean a lot of 
tedious paperwork, and I am afraid I shall have to 
mention it on your reference if ever you apply for a 
job.” 



Page | 951Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He closed the door behind him with a snap, leaving 
Harry in a state of worse turmoil than before: Snape 
had been his very last hope. He looked at Umbridge, 
who seemed to be feeling the same way; her chest was 
heaving with rage and frustration. 

“Very well,” she said, and she pulled out her wand. 
“Very well ... I am left with no alternative... This is 
more than a matter of school discipline... This is an 
issue of Ministry security... Yes ... yes ...” 

She seemed to be talking herself into something. She 
was shifting her weight nervously from foot to foot, 
staring at Harry, beating her wand against her empty 
palm and breathing heavily. Harry felt horribly 
powerless without his own wand as he watched her. 

“You are forcing me, Potter... I do not want to,” said 
Umbridge, still moving restlessly on the spot, “but 
sometimes circumstances justify the use ... I am sure 
the Minister will understand that I had no choice...” 

Malfoy was watching her with a hungry expression on 
his face. 

“The Cruciatus Curse ought to loosen your tongue,” 
said Umbridge quietly. 

“No!” shrieked Hermione. “Professor Umbridge — it’s 
illegal” — but Umbridge took no notice. There was a 
nasty, eager, excited look on her face that Harry had 
never seen before. She raised her wand. 

“The Minister wouldn’t want you to break the law, 
Professor Umbridge!” cried Hermione. 

“What Cornelius doesn’t know won’t hurt him,” said 
Umbridge, who was now panting slightly as she 
pointed her wand at different parts of Harry’s body in 

Page | 952Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




turn, apparently trying to decide what would hurt the 
most. “He never knew I ordered dementors after 
Potter last summer, but he was delighted to be given 
the chance to expel him, all the same...” 

“It was you?” gasped Harry. “ You sent the dementors 
after me?” 

“ Somebody had to act,” breathed Umbridge, as her 
wand came to rest pointing directly at Harry’s 
forehead. “They were all bleating about silencing you 
somehow — discrediting you — but I was the one who 
actually did something about it... Only you wriggled 
out of that one, didn’t you, Potter? Not today, though, 
not now ...” 

And taking a deep breath, she cried, “Cruc — ” 

“NO!” shouted Hermione in a cracked voice from 
behind Millicent Bulstrode. “No — Harry — Harry, 
well have to tell her!” 

“No way!” yelled Harry, staring at the little of 
Hermione he could see. 

“We’ll have to, Harry, shell force it out of you anyway, 
what’s ... what’s the point... ?” 

And Hermione began to cry weakly into the back of 
Millicent Bulstrode ’s robes. Millicent stopped trying to 
squash her against the wall immediately and dodged 
out of her way looking disgusted. 

“Well, well, well!” said Umbridge, looking triumphant. 
“Little Miss Question-All is going to give us some 
answers! Come on then, girl, come on!” 

“Er — my — nee — no!” shouted Ron through his gag. 



Page | 953Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ginny was staring at Hermione as though she had 
never seen her before; Neville, still choking for breath, 
was gazing at her too. But Harry had just noticed 
something. Though Hermione was sobbing 
desperately into her hands, there was no trace of a 
tear... 

“I’m — I’m sorry everyone,” said Hermione. “But — I 
can’t stand it — ■” 

“That’s right, that’s right, girl!” said Umbridge, seizing 
Hermione by the shoulders, thrusting her into the 
abandoned chintz chair and leaning over her. “Now 
then ... with whom was Potter communicating just 
now?” 

“Well,” gulped Hermione into her hands, “well, he was 
trying to speak to Professor Dumbledore...” 

Ron froze, his eyes wide; Ginny stopped trying to 
stamp on her Slytherin captor’s toes; even Luna 
looked mildly surprised. Fortunately, the attention of 
Umbridge and her minions was focused too 
exclusively upon Hermione to notice these suspicious 
signs. 

“Dumbledore?” said Umbridge eagerly. “You know 
where Dumbledore is, then?” 

“Well ... no!” sobbed Hermione. “We’ve tried the Leaky 
Cauldron in Diagon Alley and the Three Broomsticks 
and even the Hog’s Head — ” 

“Idiot girl, Dumbledore won’t be sitting in a pub when 
the whole Ministry’s looking for him!” shouted 
Umbridge, disappointment etched in every sagging 
line of her face. 



Page | 954Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But — but we needed to tell him something 
important!” wailed Hermione, holding her hands more 
tightly over her face, not, Harry knew, out of anguish, 
but to disguise the continued absence of tears. 

“Yes?” said Umbridge with a sudden resurgence of 
excitement. “What was it you wanted to tell him?” 

“We ... we wanted to tell him it’s r-ready!” choked 
Hermione. 

“What’s ready?” demanded Umbridge, and now she 
grabbed Hermione ’s shoulders again and shook her 
slightly. “What’s ready, girl?” 

“The ... the weapon,” said Hermione. 

“Weapon? Weapon?” said Umbridge, and her eyes 
seemed to pop with excitement. “You have been 
developing some method of resistance? A weapon you 
could use against the Ministry? On Professor 
Dumbledore’s orders, of course?” 

“Y-y-yes,” gasped Hermione. “But he had to leave 
before it was finished and n-n-now we’ve finished it 
for him, and we c-c-can’t find him t-t-to tell him!” 

“What kind of weapon is it?” said Umbridge harshly, 
her stubby hands still tight on Hermione ’s shoulders. 

“We don’t r-r-really understand it,” said Hermione, 
sniffing loudly. “We j-j-just did what P-P-Professor 
Dumbledore told us t-t-to do ...” 

Umbridge straightened up, looking exultant. 

“Lead me to the weapon,” she said. 



Page | 955Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm not showing ... them,” said Hermione shrilly, 
looking around at the Slytherins through her fingers. 

“It is not for you to set conditions,” said Professor 
Umbridge harshly. 

“Fine,” said Hermione, now sobbing into her hands 
again, “fine ... let them see it, I hope they use it on 
you! In fact, I wish you’d invite loads and loads of 
people to come and see! Th-that would serve you right 
— oh, I’d love it if the wh-whole school knew where it 
was, and how to u-use it, and then if you annoy any 
of them they’ll be able to s-sort you out!” 

These words had a powerful impact on Umbridge. She 
glanced swiftly and suspiciously around at her 
Inquisitorial Squad, her bulging eyes resting for a 
moment on Malfoy, who was too slow to disguise the 
look of eagerness and greed that had appeared on his 
face. 

Umbridge contemplated Hermione for another long 
moment and then spoke in what she clearly thought 
was a motherly voice. “All right, dear, let’s make it 
just you and me ... and we’ll take Potter too, shall we? 
Get up, now — ” 

“Professor,” said Malfoy eagerly, “Professor Umbridge, 

I think some of the squad should come with you to 
look after — ” 

“I am a fully qualified Ministry official, Malfoy, do you 
really think I cannot manage two wandless teenagers 
alone?” asked Umbridge sharply. “In any case, it does 
not sound as though this weapon is something that 
schoolchildren should see. You will remain here until 
I return and make sure none of these” — she gestured 
around at Ron, Ginny, Neville, and Luna — “escape.” 



Page | 956Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“All right,” said Malfoy, looking sulky and 
disappointed. 

“And you two can go ahead of me and show me the 
way,” said Umbridge, pointing at Harry and Hermione 
with her wand. “Lead on...” 



Page | 957Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






FIGHT AND FLIGHT 

Harry had no idea what Hermione was planning, or 
even whether she had a plan. He walked half a pace 
behind her as they headed down the corridor outside 
Umb ridge’s office, knowing it would look very 
suspicious if he appeared not to know where they 
were going. He did not dare attempt to talk to her; 
Umbridge was walking so closely behind them that he 
could hear her ragged breathing. 

Hermione led the way down the stairs into the 
entrance hall. The din of loud voices and the clatter of 
cutlery on plates echoed from out of the double doors 
to the Great Hall. It seemed incredible to Harry that 
twenty feet away were people who were enjoying 
dinner, celebrating the end of exams, not a care in the 
world... 

Hermione walked straight out of the oak front doors 
and down the stone steps into the balmy evening air. 
The sun was falling toward the tops of the trees in the 
Forbidden Forest now as Hermione marched 
purposefully across the grass, Umbridge jogging to 
Page | 958Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



keep up. Their long dark shadows rippled over the 
grass behind them like cloaks. 



“It’s hidden in Hagrid’s hut, is it?” said Umbridge 
eagerly in Harry’s ear. 

“Of course not,” said Hermione scathingly. “Hagrid 
might have set it off accidentally.” 

“Yes,” said Umbridge, whose excitement seemed to be 
mounting. “Yes, he would have done, of course, the 
great half-breed oaf...” 

She laughed. Harry felt a strong urge to swing around 
and seize her by the throat, but resisted. His scar was 
throbbing in the soft evening air but it had not yet 
burned white-hot, as he knew it would if Voldemort 
had moved in for the kill... 

“Then ... where is it?” asked Umbridge, with a hint of 
uncertainty in her voice as Hermione continued to 
stride toward the forest. 

“In there, of course,” said Hermione, pointing into the 
dark trees. “It had to be somewhere that students 
weren’t going to find it accidentally, didn’t it?” 

“Of course,” said Umbridge, though she sounded a 
little apprehensive now. “Of course ... very well, then 
... you two stay ahead of me.” 

“Can we have your wand, then, if we’re going first?” 
Harry asked her. 

“No, I don’t think so, Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge 
sweetly, poking him in the back with it. “The Ministry 
places a rather higher value on my life than yours, I’m 
afraid.” 

Page | 959Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




As they reached the cool shade of the first trees, 

Harry tried to catch Hermione ’s eye; walking into the 
forest without wands seemed to him to be more 
foolhardy than anything they had done so far this 
evening. She, however, merely gave Umbridge a 
contemptuous glance and plunged straight into the 
trees, moving at such a pace that Umbridge, with her 
shorter legs, had difficulty in keeping up. 

“Is it very far in?” Umbridge asked, as her robe ripped 
on a bramble. 

“Oh yes,” said Hermione. “Yes, it’s well hidden.” 

Harry’s misgivings increased. Hermione was not 
taking the path they had followed to visit Grawp, but 
the one he had followed three years ago to the lair of 
the monster Aragog. Hermione had not been with him 
on that occasion; he doubted she had any idea what 
danger lay at the end of it. 

“Er — are you sure this is the right way?” he asked 
her pointedly. 

“Oh yes,” she said in a steely voice, crashing through 
the undergrowth with what he thought was a wholly 
unnecessary amount of noise. Behind them, 

Umbridge tripped over a fallen sapling. Neither of 
them paused to help her up again; Hermione merely 
strode on, calling loudly over her shoulder, “It’s a bit 
further in!” 

“Hermione, keep your voice down,” Harry muttered, 
hurrying to catch up with her. “Anything could be 
listening in here — ” 

“I want us heard,” she answered quietly, as Umbridge 
jogged noisily after them. “You’ll see...” 



Page | 960Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They walked on for what seemed a long time, until 
they were once again so deep into the forest that the 
dense tree canopy blocked out all light. Harry had the 
feeling he had had before in the forest, one of being 
watched by unseen eyes... 

“How much further?” demanded Umbridge angrily 
from behind him. 

“Not far now!” shouted Hermione, as they emerged 
into a dim, dank clearing. “Just a little bit — ” 

An arrow flew through the air and landed with a 
menacing thud in the tree just over her head. The air 
was suddenly full of the sound of hooves. Harry could 
feel the forest floor trembling; Umbridge gave a little 
scream and pushed him in front of her like a shield — 

He wrenched himself free of her and turned. Around 
fifty centaurs were emerging on every side, their bows 
raised and loaded, pointing at Harry, Hermione, and 
Umbridge, who backed slowly into the center of the 
clearing, Umbridge uttering odd little whimpers of 
terror. Harry looked sideways at Hermione. She was 
wearing a triumphant smile. 

“Who are you?” said a voice. 

Harry looked left. The chestnut-bodied centaur called 
Magorian was walking toward them out of the circle; 
his bow, like the others’, was raised. On Harry’s right, 
Umbridge was still whimpering, her wand trembling 
violently as she pointed it at the advancing centaur. 

“I asked you who are you, human,” said Magorian 
roughly. 

“I am Dolores Umbridge!” said Umbridge in a high- 
pitched, terrified voice. “Senior Undersecretary to the 

Page | 961Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Minister of Magic and Headmistress and High 
Inquisitor of Hogwarts!” 



“You are from the Ministry of Magic?” said Magorian, 
as many of the centaurs in the surrounding circle 
shifted restlessly. 

“That’s right!” said Umbridge in an even higher voice. 
“So be very careful! By the laws laid down by the 
Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical 
Creatures, any attack by half-breeds such as 
yourselves on a human — ” 

“ What did you call us?” shouted a wild-looking black 
centaur, whom Harry recognized as Bane. There was 
a great deal of angry muttering and tightening of 
bowstrings around them. 

“Don’t call them that!” Hermione said furiously, but 
Umbridge did not appear to have heard her. Still 
pointing her shaking wand at Magorian, she 
continued, “Law Fifteen B states clearly that ‘Any 
attack by a magical creature who is deemed to have 
near-human intelligence, and therefore considered 
responsible for its actions — ’ ” 

“ ‘Near-human intelligence’?” repeated Magorian, as 
Bane and several others roared with rage and pawed 
the ground. “We consider that a great insult, human! 
Our intelligence, thankfully, far outstrips your own — 



“What are you doing in our forest?” bellowed the 
hard-faced gray centaur whom Harry and Hermione 
had seen on their last trip into the forest. “Why are 
you here?” 

“Your forest?” said Umbridge, shaking now not only 
with fright but also, it seemed, with indignation. “I 

Page | 962Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




would remind you that you live here only because the 
Ministry of Magic permits you certain areas of land — 



An arrow flew so close to her head that it caught at 
her mousy hair in passing. She let out an earsplitting 
scream and threw her hands over her head while 
some of the centaurs bellowed their approval and 
others laughed raucously. The sound of their wild, 
neighing laughter echoing around the dimly lit 
clearing and the sight of their pawing hooves was 
extremely unnerving. 

“Whose forest is it now, human?” bellowed Bane. 

“Filthy half-breeds!” she screamed, her hands still 
tight over her head. “Beasts! Uncontrolled animals!” 

“Be quiet!” shouted Hermione, but it was too late — 
Umbridge pointed her wand at Magorian and 
screamed, “ Incarcerousl” 

Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrapping 
themselves tightly around the centaur’s torso and 
trapping his arms. He gave a cry of rage and reared 
onto his hind legs, attempting to free himself, while 
the other centaurs charged. 

Harry grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the 
ground. Facedown on the forest floor he knew a 
moment of terror as hooves thundered around him, 
but the centaurs leapt over and around them, 
bellowing and screaming with rage. 

“Nooooo!” he heard Umbridge shriek. “Noooooo ... I 
am Senior Undersecretary ... you cannot ... unhand 
me, you animals ... nooooo!” 



Page | 963Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He saw a flash of red light and knew that she had 
attempted to Stun one of them — then she screamed 
very loudly. Lifting his head a few inches, Harry saw 
that Umbridge had been seized from behind by Bane 
and lifted high into the air, wriggling and yelling with 
fright. Her wand fell from her hand to the ground and 
Harry’s heart leapt, if he could just reach it — 

But as he stretched out a hand toward it, a centaur’s 
hoof descended upon the wand and it broke cleanly in 
half. 

“Now!” roared a voice in Harry’s ear and a thick hairy 
arm descended from thin air and dragged him 
upright; Hermione too had been pulled to her feet. 
Over the plunging, many-colored backs and heads of 
the centaurs Harry saw Umbridge being borne away 
through the trees by Bane, still screaming nonstop; 
her voice grew fainter and fainter until they could no 
longer hear it over the trampling of hooves 
surrounding them. 

“And these?” said the hard-faced, gray centaur 
holding Hermione. 

“They are young,” said a slow, doleful voice from 
behind Harry. “We do not attack foals.” 

“They brought her here, Ronan,” replied the centaur 
who had such a firm grip on Harry. “And they are not 
so young... He is nearing manhood, this one...” 

He shook Harry by the neck of his robes. 

“Please,” said Hermione breathlessly, “please, don’t 
attack us, we don’t think like her, we aren’t Ministry 
of Magic employees! We only came in here because we 
hoped you’d drive her off for us — ” 



Page | 964Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




