
“I know,” said Harry. “Maybe — er — the traffic’s bad, 
or something.” 

Ten past five ... then a quarter past five ... Harry was 
starting to feel anxious himself now. At half past, he 
heard Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia conversing in 
terse mutters in the living room. 

“No consideration at all.” 

“We might’ve had an engagement.” 

“Maybe they think theyll get invited to dinner if 
they’re late.” 

“Well, they most certainly won’t be,” said Uncle 
Vernon, and Harry heard him stand up and start 
pacing the living room. “They’ll take the boy and go, 
there 11 be no hanging around. That’s if they’re coming 
at all. Probably mistaken the day. I daresay their kind 
don’t set much store by punctuality. Either that or 
they drive some tin-pot car that’s broken d — 
AAAAAAAARRRRRGH ! ” 

Harry jumped up. From the other side of the living 
room door came the sounds of the three Dursleys 
scrambling, panic-stricken, across the room. Next 
moment Dudley came flying into the hall, looking 
terrified. 

Page | 45 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What happened?” said Harry. “What’s the matter?” 

But Dudley didn’t seem able to speak. Hands still 
clamped over his buttocks, he waddled as fast as he 
could into the kitchen. Harry hurried into the living 
room. 

Loud hangings and scrapings were coming from 
behind the Dursleys’ boarded-up fireplace, which had 
a fake coal fire plugged in front of it. 

“What is it?” gasped Aunt Petunia, who had backed 
into the wall and was staring, terrified, toward the 
fire. “What is it, Vernon?” 

But they were left in doubt barely a second longer. 
Voices could be heard from inside the blocked 
fireplace. 

“Ouch! Fred, no — go back, go back, there’s been 
some kind of mistake — tell George not to — OUCH! 
George, no, there’s no room, go back quickly and tell 
Ron — ” 

“Maybe Harry can hear us, Dad — maybe he’ll be able 
to let us out — ” 

There was a loud hammering of fists on the boards 
behind the electric fire. 

“Harry? Harry, can you hear us?” 

The Dursleys rounded on Harry like a pair of angry 
wolverines. 

“What is this?” growled Uncle Vernon. “What’s going 
on?” 



Page | 46 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They — they’ve tried to get here by Floo powder,” 
said Harry, fighting a mad desire to laugh. “They can 
travel by fire — only you’ve blocked the fireplace — 
hang on — ” 

He approached the fireplace and called through the 
boards. 

“Mr. Weasley? Can you hear me?” 

The hammering stopped. Somebody inside the 
chimney piece said, “Shh!” 

“Mr. Weasley, it’s Harry ... the fireplace has been 
blocked up. You won’t be able to get through there.” 

“Damn!” said Mr. Weasley’s voice. “What on earth did 
they want to block up the fireplace for?” 

“They’ve got an electric fire,” Harry explained. 

“Really?” said Mr. Weasley’s voice excitedly. “Eclectic, 
you say? With a plug? Gracious, I must see that. ... 
Let’s think ... ouch, Ron!” 

Ron’s voice now joined the others’. 

“What are we doing here? Has something gone 
wrong?” 

“Oh no, Ron,” came Fred’s voice, very sarcastically. 
“No, this is exactly where we wanted to end up.” 

“Yeah, we’re having the time of our lives here,” said 
George, whose voice sounded muffled, as though he 
was squashed against the wall. 



Page | 47 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Boys, boys ...” said Mr. Weasley vaguely. “I’m trying 
to think what to do. ... Yes ... only way ... Stand back, 
Harry.” 

Harry retreated to the sofa. Uncle Vernon, however, 
moved forward. 

“Wait a moment!” he bellowed at the fire. “What 
exactly are you going to — ” 

BANG. 

The electric fire shot across the room as the boarded- 
up fireplace burst outward, expelling Mr. Weasley, 
Fred, George, and Ron in a cloud of rubble and loose 
chippings. Aunt Petunia shrieked and fell backward 
over the coffee table; Uncle Vernon caught her before 
she hit the floor, and gaped, speechless, at the 
Weasleys, all of whom had bright red hair, including 
Fred and George, who were identical to the last 
freckle. 

“That’s better,” panted Mr. Weasley, brushing dust 
from his long green robes and straightening his 
glasses. “Ah — you must be Harry’s aunt and uncle!” 

Tall, thin, and balding, he moved toward Uncle 
Vernon, his hand outstretched, but Uncle Vernon 
backed away several paces, dragging Aunt Petunia. 
Words utterly failed Uncle Vernon. His best suit was 
covered in white dust, which had settled in his hair 
and mustache and made him look as though he had 
just aged thirty years. 

“Er — yes — sorry about that,” said Mr. Weasley, 
lowering his hand and looking over his shoulder at 
the blasted fireplace. “It’s all my fault. It just didn’t 
occur to me that we wouldn’t be able to get out at the 
other end. I had your fireplace connected to the Floo 
Page | 48 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Network, you see — just for an afternoon, you know, 
so we could get Harry. Muggle fireplaces aren’t 
supposed to be connected, strictly speaking — but 
I’ve got a useful contact at the Floo Regulation Panel 
and he fixed it for me. I can put it right in a jiffy, 
though, don’t worry. I’ll light a fire to send the boys 
back, and then I can repair your fireplace before I 
Disapparate.” 

Harry was ready to bet that the Dursleys hadn’t 
understood a single word of this. They were still 
gaping at Mr. Weasley, thunderstruck. Aunt Petunia 
staggered upright again and hid behind Uncle 
Vernon. 

“Hello, Harry!” said Mr. Weasley brightly. “Got your 
trunk ready?” 

“It’s upstairs,” said Harry, grinning back. 

“Well get it,” said Fred at once. Winking at Harry, he 
and George left the room. They knew where Harry’s 
bedroom was, having once rescued him from it in the 
dead of night. Harry suspected that Fred and George 
were hoping for a glimpse of Dudley; they had heard a 
lot about him from Harry. 

“Well,” said Mr. Weasley, swinging his arms slightly, 
while he tried to find words to break the very nasty 
silence. “Very — erm — very nice place you’ve got 
here.” 

As the usually spotless living room was now covered 
in dust and bits of brick, this remark didn’t go down 
too well with the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon’s face 
purpled once more, and Aunt Petunia started chewing 
her tongue again. However, they seemed too scared to 
actually say anything. 



Page | 49 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mr. Weasley was looking around. He loved everything 
to do with Muggles. Harry could see him itching to go 
and examine the television and the video recorder. 

“They run off eckeltricity, do they?” he said 
knowledgeably. “Ah yes, I can see the plugs. I collect 
plugs,” he added to Uncle Vernon. “And batteries. Got 
a very large collection of batteries. My wife thinks I’m 
mad, but there you are.” 

Uncle Vernon clearly thought Mr. Weasley was mad 
too. He moved ever so slightly to the right, screening 
Aunt Petunia from view, as though he thought Mr. 
Weasley might suddenly run at them and attack. 

Dudley suddenly reappeared in the room. Harry could 
hear the clunk of his trunk on the stairs, and knew 
that the sounds had scared Dudley out of the kitchen. 
Dudley edged along the wall, gazing at Mr. Weasley 
with terrified eyes, and attempted to conceal himself 
behind his mother and father. Unfortunately, Uncle 
Vernon’s bulk, while sufficient to hide bony Aunt 
Petunia, was nowhere near enough to conceal Dudley. 

“Ah, this is your cousin, is it, Harry?” said Mr. 
Weasley, taking another brave stab at making 
conversation. 

“Yep,” said Harry, “that’s Dudley.” 

He and Ron exchanged glances and then quickly 
looked away from each other; the temptation to burst 
out laughing was almost overwhelming. Dudley was 
still clutching his bottom as though afraid it might 
fall off. Mr. Weasley, however, seemed genuinely 
concerned at Dudley’s peculiar behavior. Indeed, from 
the tone of his voice when he next spoke, Harry was 
quite sure that Mr. Weasley thought Dudley was quite 



Page | 50 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




as mad as the Dursleys thought he was, except that 
Mr. Weasley felt sympathy rather than fear. 

“Having a good holiday, Dudley?” he said kindly. 

Dudley whimpered. Harry saw his hands tighten still 
harder over his massive backside. 

Fred and George came back into the room carrying 
Harry’s school trunk. They glanced around as they 
entered and spotted Dudley. Their faces cracked into 
identical evil grins. 

“Ah, right,” said Mr. Weasley. “Better get cracking 
then.” 

He pushed up the sleeves of his robes and took out 
his wand. Harry saw the Dursleys draw back against 
the wall as one. 

“Incendio\” said Mr. Weasley, pointing his wand at the 
hole in the wall behind him. 

Flames rose at once in the fireplace, crackling merrily 
as though they had been burning for hours. Mr. 
Weasley took a small drawstring bag from his pocket, 
untied it, took a pinch of the powder inside, and 
threw it onto the flames, which turned emerald green 
and roared higher than ever. 

“Off you go then, Fred,” said Mr. Weasley. 

“Coming,” said Fred. “Oh no — hang on — ” 

A bag of sweets had spilled out of Fred’s pocket and 
the contents were now rolling in every direction — 
big, fat toffees in brightly colored wrappers. 



Page | 51 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Fred scrambled around, cramming them back into his 
pocket, then gave the Dursleys a cheery wave, 
stepped forward, and walked right into the fire, saying 
“the Burrow!” Aunt Petunia gave a little shuddering 
gasp. There was a whooshing sound, and Fred 
vanished. 

“Right then, George,” said Mr. Weasley, “you and the 
trunk.” 

Harry helped George carry the trunk forward into the 
flames and turn it onto its end so that he could hold 
it better. Then, with a second whoosh, George had 
cried “the Burrow!” and vanished too. 

“Ron, you next,” said Mr. Weasley. 

“See you,” said Ron brightly to the Dursleys. He 
grinned broadly at Harry, then stepped into the fire, 
shouted “the Burrow!” and disappeared. 

Now Harry and Mr. Weasley alone remained. 

“Well ... T>ye then,” Harry said to the Dursleys. 

They didn’t say anything at all. Harry moved toward 
the fire, but just as he reached the edge of the hearth, 
Mr. Weasley put out a hand and held him back. He 
was looking at the Dursleys in amazement. 

“Harry said good-bye to you,” he said. “Didn’t you 
hear him?” 

“It doesn’t matter,” Harry muttered to Mr. Weasley. 
“Honestly, I don’t care.” 

Mr. Weasley did not remove his hand from Harry’s 
shoulder. 



Page | 52 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You aren’t going to see your nephew till next 
summer,” he said to Uncle Vernon in mild 
indignation. “Surely you’re going to say good-bye?” 

Uncle Vernon’s face worked furiously. The idea of 
being taught consideration by a man who had just 
blasted away half his living room wall seemed to be 
causing him intense suffering. But Mr. Weasley’s 
wand was still in his hand, and Uncle Vernon’s tiny 
eyes darted to it once, before he said, very resentfully, 
“Good-bye, then.” 

“See you,” said Harry, putting one foot forward into 
the green flames, which felt pleasantly like warm 
breath. At that moment, however, a horrible gagging 
sound erupted behind him, and Aunt Petunia started 
to scream. 

Harry wheeled around. Dudley was no longer 
standing behind his parents. He was kneeling beside 
the coffee table, and he was gagging and sputtering 
on a foot-long, purple, slimy thing that was 
protruding from his mouth. One bewildered second 
later, Harry realized that the foot-long thing was 
Dudley’s tongue — and that a brightly colored toffee 
wrapper lay on the floor before him. 

Aunt Petunia hurled herself onto the ground beside 
Dudley, seized the end of his swollen tongue, and 
attempted to wrench it out of his mouth; 
unsurprisingly, Dudley yelled and sputtered worse 
than ever, trying to fight her off. Uncle Vernon was 
bellowing and waving his arms around, and Mr. 
Weasley had to shout to make himself heard. 

“Not to worry, I can sort him out!” he yelled, 
advancing on Dudley with his wand outstretched, but 
Aunt Petunia screamed worse than ever and threw 



Page | 53 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




herself on top of Dudley, shielding him from Mr. 
Weasley. 



“No, really!” said Mr. Weasley desperately. “It’s a 
simple process — it was the toffee — my son Fred — 
real practical joker — but it’s only an Engorgement 
Charm — at least, I think it is — please, I can correct 



it — ” 



But far from being reassured, the Dursleys became 
more panic-stricken; Aunt Petunia was sobbing 
hysterically, tugging Dudley’s tongue as though 
determined to rip it out; Dudley appeared to be 
suffocating under the combined pressure of his 
mother and his tongue; and Uncle Vernon, who had 
lost control completely, seized a china figure from on 
top of the sideboard and threw it very hard at Mr. 
Weasley, who ducked, causing the ornament to 
shatter in the blasted fireplace. 

“Now really!” said Mr. Weasley angrily, brandishing 
his wand. “I’m trying to help\” 

Bellowing like a wounded hippo, Uncle Vernon 
snatched up another ornament. 

“Harry, go! Just go!” Mr. Weasley shouted, his wand 
on Uncle Vernon. “I’ll sort this out!” 

Harry didn’t want to miss the fun, but Uncle Vernon’s 
second ornament narrowly missed his left ear, and on 
balance he thought it best to leave the situation to 
Mr. Weasley. He stepped into the fire, looking over his 
shoulder as he said “the Burrow!” His last fleeting 
glimpse of the living room was of Mr. Weasley blasting 
a third ornament out of Uncle Vernon’s hand with his 
wand, Aunt Petunia screaming and lying on top of 
Dudley, and Dudley’s tongue lolling around like a 
great slimy python. But next moment Harry had 
Page | 54 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




begun to spin very fast, and the Dursleys’ living room 
was whipped out of sight in a rush of emerald-green 
flames. 



Page | 55 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




5 




WEASLEYS’ WIZARD WHEEZES 

Harry spun faster and faster, elbows tucked tightly to 
his sides, blurred fireplaces flashing past him, until 
he started to feel sick and closed his eyes. Then, 
when at last he felt himself slowing down, he threw 
out his hands and came to a halt in time to prevent 
himself from falling face forward out of the Weasleys’ 
kitchen fire. 

“Did he eat it?” said Fred excitedly, holding out a 
hand to pull Harry to his feet. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, straightening up. “What was it?” 

“Ton-Tongue Toffee,” said Fred brightly. “George and I 
invented them, and we’ve been looking for someone to 
test them on all summer. ...” 

The tiny kitchen exploded with laughter; Harry looked 
around and saw that Ron and George were sitting at 
the scrubbed wooden table with two red-haired people 
Harry had never seen before, though he knew 

Page | 56 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



immediately who they must be: Bill and Charlie, the 
two eldest Weasley brothers. 



“How’re you doing, Harry?” said the nearer of the two, 
grinning at him and holding out a large hand, which 
Harry shook, feeling calluses and blisters under his 
fingers. This had to be Charlie, who worked with 
dragons in Romania. Charlie was built like the twins, 
shorter and stockier than Percy and Ron, who were 
both long and lanky. He had a broad, good-natured 
face, which was weather-beaten and so freckly that he 
looked almost tanned; his arms were muscular, and 
one of them had a large, shiny burn on it. 

Bill got to his feet, smiling, and also shook Harry’s 
hand. Bill came as something of a surprise. Harry 
knew that he worked for the wizarding bank, 
Gringotts, and that Bill had been Head Boy at 
Hogwarts; Harry had always imagined Bill to be an 
older version of Percy: fussy about rule-breaking and 
fond of bossing everyone around. However, Bill was — 
there was no other word for it — cool. He was tall, 
with long hair that he had tied back in a ponytail. He 
was wearing an earring with what looked like a fang 
dangling from it. Bill’s clothes would not have looked 
out of place at a rock concert, except that Harry 
recognized his boots to be made, not of leather, but of 
dragon hide. 

Before any of them could say anything else, there was 
a faint popping noise, and Mr. Weasley appeared out 
of thin air at George’s shoulder. He was looking 
angrier than Harry had ever seen him. 

“That wasn’t funny, Fred!” he shouted. “What on 
earth did you give that Muggle boy?” 



Page | 57 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I didn’t give him anything,” said Fred, with another 
evil grin. “I just dropped it. ... It was his fault he went 
and ate it, I never told him to.” 

“You dropped it on purpose!” roared Mr. Weasley. 

“You knew he’d eat it, you knew he was on a diet — ” 

“How big did his tongue get?” George asked eagerly. 

“It was four feet long before his parents would let me 
shrink it!” 

Harry and the Weasleys roared with laughter again. 

“It isn’t funny\” Mr. Weasley shouted. “That sort of 
behavior seriously undermines wizard-Muggle 
relations! I spend half my life campaigning against the 
mistreatment of Muggles, and my own sons — ” 

“We didn’t give it to him because he’s a Muggle!” said 
Fred indignantly. 

“No, we gave it to him because he’s a great bullying 
git,” said George. “Isn’t he, Harry?” 

“Yeah, he is, Mr. Weasley,” said Harry earnestly. 

“That’s not the point!” raged Mr. Weasley. “You wait 
until I tell your mother — ” 

“Tell me what?” said a voice behind them. 

Mrs. Weasley had just entered the kitchen. She was a 
short, plump woman with a very kind face, though 
her eyes were presently narrowed with suspicion. 

“Oh hello, Harry, dear,” she said, spotting him and 
smiling. Then her eyes snapped back to her husband. 
“Tell me what , Arthur?” 

Page | 58 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mr. Weasley hesitated. Harry could tell that, however 
angry he was with Fred and George, he hadn’t really 
intended to tell Mrs. Weasley what had happened. 
There was a silence, while Mr. Weasley eyed his wife 
nervously. Then two girls appeared in the kitchen 
doorway behind Mrs. Weasley. One, with very bushy 
brown hair and rather large front teeth, was Harry’s 
and Ron’s friend, Hermione Granger. The other, who 
was small and red-haired, was Ron’s younger sister, 
Ginny. Both of them smiled at Harry, who grinned 
back, which made Ginny go scarlet — she had been 
very taken with Harry ever since his first visit to the 
Burrow. 

“Tell me what, Arthur?” Mrs. Weasley repeated, in a 
dangerous sort of voice. 

“It’s nothing, Molly,” mumbled Mr. Weasley, “Fred and 
George just — but I’ve had words with them — ” 

“What have they done this time?” said Mrs. Weasley. 
“If it’s got anything to do with Weasleys’ Wizard 
Wheezes — ” 

“Why don’t you show Harry where he’s sleeping, 

Ron?” said Hermione from the doorway. 

“He knows where he’s sleeping,” said Ron, “in my 
room, he slept there last — ” 

“We can all go,” said Hermione pointedly. 

“Oh,” said Ron, cottoning on. “Right.” 

“Yeah, we’ll come too,” said George. 

“You stay where you are!” snarled Mrs. Weasley. 



Page | 59 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry and Ron edged out of the kitchen, and they, 
Hermione, and Ginny set off along the narrow hallway 
and up the rickety staircase that zigzagged through 
the house to the upper stories. 

“What are Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes?” Harry asked 
as they climbed. 

Ron and Ginny both laughed, although Hermione 
didn’t. 

“Mum found this stack of order forms when she was 
cleaning Fred and George’s room,” said Ron quietly. 
“Great long price lists for stuff they’ve invented. Joke 
stuff, you know. Fake wands and trick sweets, loads 
of stuff. It was brilliant, I never knew they’d been 
inventing all that ...” 

“We’ve been hearing explosions out of their room for 
ages, but we never thought they were actually making 
things,” said Ginny. “We thought they just liked the 
noise.” 

“Only, most of the stuff — well, all of it, really — was 
a bit dangerous,” said Ron, “and, you know, they were 
planning to sell it at Hogwarts to make some money, 
and Mum went mad at them. Told them they weren’t 
allowed to make any more of it, and burned all the 
order forms. ... She’s furious at them anyway. They 
didn’t get as many O.W.L.s as she expected.” 

O.W.L.s were Ordinary Wizarding Levels, the 
examinations Hogwarts students took at the age of 
fifteen. 

“And then there was this big row,” Ginny said, 
“because Mum wants them to go into the Ministry of 
Magic like Dad, and they told her all they want to do 
is open a joke shop.” 

Page | 60 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Just then a door on the second landing opened, and a 
face poked out wearing horn-rimmed glasses and a 
very annoyed expression. 

“Hi, Percy,” said Harry. 

“Oh hello, Harry,” said Percy. “I was wondering who 
was making all the noise. I’m trying to work in here, 
you know — I’ve got a report to finish for the office — 
and it’s rather difficult to concentrate when people 
keep thundering up and down the stairs.” 

“We’re not thundering,” said Ron irritably. “We’re 
walking. Sorry if we’ve disturbed the top-secret 
workings of the Ministry of Magic.” 

“What are you working on?” said Harry. 

“A report for the Department of International Magical 
Cooperation,” said Percy smugly. “We’re trying to 
standardize cauldron thickness. Some of these foreign 
imports are just a shade too thin — leakages have 
been increasing at a rate of almost three percent a 
year — ” 

“That’ll change the world, that report will,” said Ron. 
“Front page of the Daily Prophet, I expect, cauldron 
leaks.” 

Percy went slightly pink. 

“You might sneer, Ron,” he said heatedly, “but unless 
some sort of international law is imposed we might 
well find the market flooded with flimsy, shallow- 
bottomed products that seriously endanger — ” 

“Yeah, yeah, all right,” said Ron, and he started off 
upstairs again. Percy slammed his bedroom door 
shut. As Harry, Hermione, and Ginny followed Ron up 

Page | 61 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




three more flights of stairs, shouts from the kitchen 
below echoed up to them. It sounded as though Mr. 
Weasley had told Mrs. Weasley about the toffees. 

The room at the top of the house where Ron slept 
looked much as it had the last time that Harry had 
come to stay: the same posters of Ron’s favorite 
Quidditch team, the Chudley Cannons, were whirling 
and waving on the walls and sloping ceiling, and the 
fish tank on the windowsill, which had previously 
held frog spawn, now contained one extremely large 
frog. Ron’s old rat, Scabbers, was here no more, but 
instead there was the tiny gray owl that had delivered 
Ron’s letter to Harry in Privet Drive. It was hopping 
up and down in a small cage and twittering madly. 

“Shut up, Pig,” said Ron, edging his way between two 
of the four beds that had been squeezed into the 
room. “Fred and George are in here with us, because 
Bill and Charlie are in their room,” he told Harry. 
“Percy gets to keep his room all to himself because 
he’s got to work.” 

“Er — why are you calling that owl Pig?” Harry asked 
Ron. 

“Because he’s being stupid,” said Ginny. “Its proper 
name is Pigwidgeon.” 

“Yeah, and that’s not a stupid name at all,” said Ron 
sarcastically. “Ginny named him,” he explained to 
Harry. “She reckons it’s sweet. And I tried to change 
it, but it was too late, he won’t answer to anything 
else. So now he’s Pig. I’ve got to keep him up here 
because he annoys Errol and Hermes. He annoys me 
too, come to that.” 

Pigwidgeon zoomed happily around his cage, hooting 
shrilly. Harry knew Ron too well to take him 

Page | 62 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




seriously. He had moaned continually about his old 
rat, Scabbers, but had been most upset when 
Hermione’s cat, Crookshanks, appeared to have eaten 
him. 

“Where’s Crookshanks?” Harry asked Hermione now. 

“Out in the garden, I expect,” she said. “He likes 
chasing gnomes. He’s never seen any before.” 

“Percy’s enjoying work, then?” said Harry, sitting 
down on one of the beds and watching the Chudley 
Cannons zooming in and out of the posters on the 
ceiling. 

“Enjoying it?” said Ron darkly. “I don’t reckon he’d 
come home if Dad didn’t make him. He’s obsessed. 
Just don’t get him onto the subject of his boss. 
According to Mr. Crouch ... as I was saying to Mr. 
Crouch . . . Mr. Crouch is of the opinion . . . Mr. Crouch 
was telling me ... They 11 be announcing their 
engagement any day now.” 

“Have you had a good summer, Harry?” said 
Hermione. “Did you get our food parcels and 
everything?” 

“Yeah, thanks a lot,” said Harry. “They saved my life, 
those cakes.” 

“And have you heard from — ?” Ron began, but at a 
look from Hermione he fell silent. Harry knew Ron 
had been about to ask about Sirius. Ron and 
Hermione had been so deeply involved in helping 
Sirius escape from the Ministry of Magic that they 
were almost as concerned about Harry’s godfather as 
he was. However, discussing him in front of Ginny 
was a bad idea. Nobody but themselves and Professor 



Page | 63 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore knew about how Sirius had escaped, or 
believed in his innocence. 

“I think they’ve stopped arguing,” said Hermione, to 
cover the awkward moment, because Ginny was 
looking curiously from Ron to Harry. “Shall we go 
down and help your mum with dinner?” 

“Yeah, all right,” said Ron. The four of them left Ron’s 
room and went back downstairs to find Mrs. Weasley 
alone in the kitchen, looking extremely bad-tempered. 

“We’re eating out in the garden,” she said when they 
came in. “There’s just not room for eleven people in 
here. Could you take the plates outside, girls? Bill 
and Charlie are setting up the tables. Knives and 
forks, please, you two,” she said to Ron and Harry, 
pointing her wand a little more vigorously than she 
had intended at a pile of potatoes in the sink, which 
shot out of their skins so fast that they ricocheted off 
the walls and ceiling. 

“Oh for heaven’s sake,” she snapped, now directing 
her wand at a dustpan, which hopped off the 
sideboard and started skating across the floor, 
scooping up the potatoes. “Those two!” she burst out 
savagely, now pulling pots and pans out of a 
cupboard, and Harry knew she meant Fred and 
George. “I don’t know what’s going to happen to them, 
I really don’t. No ambition, unless you count making 
as much trouble as they possibly can. ...” 

Mrs. Weasley slammed a large copper saucepan down 
on the kitchen table and began to wave her wand 
around inside it. A creamy sauce poured from the 
wand tip as she stirred. 

“It’s not as though they haven’t got brains,” she 
continued irritably, taking the saucepan over to the 

Page | 64 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




stove and lighting it with a further poke of her wand, 
“but they’re wasting them, and unless they pull 
themselves together soon, they’ll be in real trouble. 
I’ve had more owls from Hogwarts about them than 
the rest put together. If they carry on the way they’re 
going, they’ll end up in front of the Improper Use of 
Magic Office.” 

Mrs. Weasley jabbed her wand at the cutlery drawer, 
which shot open. Harry and Ron both jumped out of 
the way as several knives soared out of it, flew across 
the kitchen, and began chopping the potatoes, which 
had just been tipped back into the sink by the 
dustpan. 

“I don’t know where we went wrong with them,” said 
Mrs. Weasley, putting down her wand and starting to 
pull out still more saucepans. “It’s been the same for 
years, one thing after another, and they won’t listen 
to — OH NOT AGAIN.” 

She had picked up her wand from the table, and it 
had emitted a loud squeak and turned into a giant 
rubber mouse. 

“One of their fake wands again!” she shouted. “How 
many times have I told them not to leave them lying 
around?” 

She grabbed her real wand and turned around to find 
that the sauce on the stove was smoking. 

“C’mon,” Ron said hurriedly to Harry, seizing a 
handful of cutlery from the open drawer, “let’s go and 
help Bill and Charlie.” 

They left Mrs. Weasley and headed out the back door 
into the yard. 



Page | 65 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They had only gone a few paces when Hermione’s 
bandy-legged ginger cat, Crookshanks, came pelting 
out of the garden, bottle-brush tail held high in the 
air, chasing what looked like a muddy potato on legs. 
Harry recognized it instantly as a gnome. Barely ten 
inches high, its horny little feet pattered very fast as it 
sprinted across the yard and dived headlong into one 
of the Wellington boots that lay scattered around the 
door. Harry could hear the gnome giggling madly as 
Crookshanks inserted a paw into the boot, trying to 
reach it. Meanwhile, a very loud crashing noise was 
coming from the other side of the house. The source 
of the commotion was revealed as they entered the 
garden, and saw that Bill and Charlie both had their 
wands out, and were making two battered old tables 
fly high above the lawn, smashing into each other, 
each attempting to knock the other’s out of the air. 
Fred and George were cheering, Ginny was laughing, 
and Hermione was hovering near the hedge, 
apparently torn between amusement and anxiety. 

Bill’s table caught Charlie’s with a huge bang and 
knocked one of its legs off. There was a clatter from 
overhead, and they all looked up to see Percy’s head 
poking out of a window on the second floor. 

“Will you keep it down?!” he bellowed. 

“Sorry, Perce,” said Bill, grinning. “How’re the 
cauldron bottoms coming on?” 

“Very badly,” said Percy peevishly, and he slammed 
the window shut. Chuckling, Bill and Charlie directed 
the tables safely onto the grass, end to end, and then, 
with a flick of his wand, Bill reattached the table leg 
and conjured tablecloths from nowhere. 

By seven o’clock, the two tables were groaning under 
dishes and dishes of Mrs. Weasley’s excellent cooking, 

Page | 66 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




and the nine Weasleys, Harry, and Hermione were 
settling themselves down to eat beneath a clear, deep- 
blue sky. To somebody who had been living on meals 
of increasingly stale cake all summer, this was 
