I 



* 

THE DARK LORD ASCENDING 

The two men appeared out of nowhere, a few yards 
apart in the narrow, moonlit lane. For a second they 
stood quite still, wands directed at each other’s 
chests; then, recognizing each other, they stowed 
their wands beneath their cloaks and started walking 
briskly in the same direction. 

“News?” asked the taller of the two. 

“The best,” replied Severus Snape. 

The lane was bordered on the left by wild, low- 
growing brambles, on the right by a high, neatly 
manicured hedge. The men’s long cloaks flapped 
around their ankles as they marched. 

“Thought I might be late,” said Yaxley, his blunt 
features sliding in and out of sight as the branches of 
overhanging trees broke the moonlight. “It was a little 
trickier than I expected. But I hope he will be 
satisfied. You sound confident that your reception will 
be good?” 

Page | 2 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Snape nodded, but did not elaborate. They turned 
right, into a wide driveway that led off the lane. The 
high hedge curved with them, running off into the 
distance beyond the pair of impressive wrought-iron 
gates barring the men’s way. Neither of them broke 
step: In silence both raised their left arms in a kind of 
salute and passed straight through, as though the 
dark metal were smoke. 

The yew hedges muffled the sound of the men’s 
footsteps. There was a rustle somewhere to their 
right: Yaxley drew his wand again, pointing it over his 
companion’s head, but the source of the noise proved 
to be nothing more than a pure-white peacock, 
strutting majestically along the top of the hedge. 

“He always did himself well, Lucius. Peacocks ...” 
Yaxley thrust his wand back under his cloak with a 
snort. 

A handsome manor house grew out of the darkness at 
the end of the straight drive, lights glinting in the 
diamond-paned downstairs windows. Somewhere in 
the dark garden beyond the hedge a fountain was 
playing. Gravel crackled beneath their feet as Snape 
and Yaxley sped toward the front door, which swung 
inward at their approach, though nobody had visibly 
opened it. 

The hallway was large, dimly lit, and sumptuously 
decorated, with a magnificent carpet covering most of 
the stone floor. The eyes of the pale-faced portraits on 
the walls followed Snape and Yaxley as they strode 
past. The two men halted at a heavy wooden door 
leading into the next room, hesitated for the space of 
a heartbeat, then Snape turned the bronze handle. 

The drawing room was full of silent people, sitting at a 
long and ornate table. The room’s usual furniture had 

Page | 3 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




been pushed carelessly up against the walls. 
Illumination came from a roaring fire beneath a 
handsome marble mantelpiece surmounted by a 
gilded mirror. Snape and Yaxley lingered for a 
moment on the threshold. As their eyes grew 
accustomed to the lack of light, they were drawn 
upward to the strangest feature of the scene: an 
apparently unconscious human figure hanging upside 
down over the table, revolving slowly as if suspended 
by an invisible rope, and reflected in the mirror and in 
the bare, polished surface of the table below. None of 
the people seated underneath this singular sight was 
looking at it except for a pale young man sitting 
almost directly below it. He seemed unable to prevent 
himself from glancing upward every minute or so. 

“Yaxley. Snape,” said a high, clear voice from the head 
of the table. “You are very nearly late.” 

The speaker was seated directly in front of the 
fireplace, so that it was difficult, at first, for the new 
arrivals to make out more than his silhouette. As they 
drew nearer, however, his face shone through the 
gloom, hairless, snakelike, with slits for nostrils and 
gleaming red eyes whose pupils were vertical. He was 
so pale that he seemed to emit a pearly glow. 

“Severus, here,” said Voldemort, indicating the seat 
on his immediate right. “Yaxley — beside Dolohov.” 

The two men took their allotted places. Most of the 
eyes around the table followed Snape, and it was to 
him that Voldemort spoke first. 

“So?” 

“My Lord, the Order of the Phoenix intends to move 
Harry Potter from his current place of safety on 
Saturday next, at nightfall.” 

Page | 4 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The interest around the table sharpened palpably: 
Some stiffened, others fidgeted, all gazing at Snape 
and Voldemort. 

“Saturday ... at nightfall,” repeated Voldemort. His 
red eyes fastened upon Snape ’s black ones with such 
intensity that some of the watchers looked away, 
apparently fearful that they themselves would be 
scorched by the ferocity of the gaze. Snape, however, 
looked calmly back into Voldemort’s face and, after a 
moment or two, Voldemort’s lipless mouth curved into 
something like a smile. 

“Good. Very good. And this information comes — ” 

“ — from the source we discussed,” said Snape. 

“My Lord.” 

Yaxley had leaned forward to look down the long table 
at Voldemort and Snape. All faces turned to him. 

“My Lord, I have heard differently.” 

Yaxley waited, but Voldemort did not speak, so he 
went on, “Dawlish, the Auror, let slip that Potter will 
not be moved until the thirtieth, the night before the 
boy turns seventeen.” 

Snape was smiling. 

“My source told me that there are plans to lay a false 
trail; this must be it. No doubt a Confundus Charm 
has been placed upon Dawlish. It would not be the 
first time; he is known to be susceptible.” 

“I assure you, my Lord, Dawlish seemed quite 
certain,” said Yaxley. 



Page | 5 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“If he has been Confunded, naturally he is certain,” 
said Snape. “I assure you, Yaxley, the Auror Office 
will play no further part in the protection of Harry 
Potter. The Order believes that we have infiltrated the 
Ministry.” 

“The Order’s got one thing right, then, eh?” said a 
squat man sitting a short distance from Yaxley; he 
gave a wheezy giggle that was echoed here and there 
along the table. 

Voldemort did not laugh. His gaze had wandered 
upward to the body revolving slowly overhead, and he 
seemed to be lost in thought. 

“My Lord,” Yaxley went on, “Dawlish believes an 
entire party of Aurors will be used to transfer the boy 



Voldemort held up a large white hand, and Yaxley 
subsided at once, watching resentfully as Voldemort 
turned back to Snape. 

“Where are they going to hide the boy next?” 

“At the home of one of the Order,” said Snape. “The 
place, according to the source, has been given every 
protection that the Order and Ministry together could 
provide. I think that there is little chance of taking 
him once he is there, my Lord, unless, of course, the 
Ministry has fallen before next Saturday, which might 
give us the opportunity to discover and undo enough 
of the enchantments to break through the rest.” 

“Well, Yaxley?” Voldemort called down the table, the 
firelight glinting strangely in his red eyes. “Will the 
Ministry have fallen by next Saturday?” 



Page | 6 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Once again, all heads turned. Yaxley squared his 
shoulders. 

“My Lord, I have good news on that score. I have — 
with difficulty, and after great effort — suceeded in 
placing an Imperius Curse upon Pius Thicknesse.” 

Many of those sitting around Yaxley looked 
impressed; his neighbor, Dolohov, a man with a long, 
twisted face, clapped him on the back. 

“It is a start,” said Voldemort. “But Thicknesse is only 
one man. Scrimgeour must be surrounded by our 
people before I act. One failed attempt on the 
Minister’s life will set me back a long way.” 

“Yes — my Lord, that is true — but you know, as 
Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, 
Thicknesse has regular contact not only with the 
Minister himself, but also with the Heads of all the 
other Ministry departments. It will, I think, be easy 
now that we have such a high-ranking official under 
our control, to subjugate the others, and then they 
can all work together to bring Scrimgeour down.” 

“As long as our friend Thicknesse is not discovered 
before he has converted the rest,” said Voldemort. “At 
any rate, it remains unlikely that the Ministry will be 
mine before next Saturday. If we cannot touch the 
boy at his destination, then it must be done while he 
travels.” 

“We are at an advantage there, my Lord,” said Yaxley, 
who seemed determined to receive some portion of 
approval. “We now have several people planted within 
the Department of Magical Transport. If Potter 
Apparates or uses the Floo Network, we shall know 
immediately.” 



Page | 7 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“He will not do either,” said Snape. “The Order is 
eschewing any form of transport that is controlled or 
regulated by the Ministry; they mistrust everything to 
do with the place.” 

“All the better,” said Voldemort. “He will have to move 
in the open. Easier to take, by far.” 

Again, Voldemort looked up at the slowly revolving 
body as he went on, “I shall attend to the boy in 
person. There have been too many mistakes where 
Harry Potter is concerned. Some of them have been 
my own. That Potter lives is due more to my errors 
than to his triumphs.” 

The company around the table watched Voldemort 
apprehensively, each of them, by his or her 
expression, afraid that they might be blamed for 
Harry Potter’s continued existence. Voldemort, 
however, seemed to be speaking more to himself than 
to any of them, still addressing the unconscious body 
above him. 

“I have been careless, and so have been thwarted by 
luck and chance, those wreckers of all but the best- 
laid plans. But I know better now. I understand those 
things that I did not understand before. I must be the 
one to kill Harry Potter, and I shall be.” 

At these words, seemingly in response to them, a 
sudden wail sounded, a terrible, drawn-out cry of 
misery and pain. Many of those at the table looked 
downward, startled, for the sound had seemed to 
issue from below their feet. 

“Wormtail,” said Voldemort, with no change in his 
quiet, thoughtful tone, and without removing his eyes 
from the revolving body above, “have I not spoken to 
you about keeping our prisoner quiet?” 

Page | 8 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, m-my Lord,” gasped a small man halfway down 
the table, who had been sitting so low in his chair 
that it had appeared, at first glance, to be 
unoccupied. Now he scrambled from his seat and 
scurried from the room, leaving nothing behind him 
but a curious gleam of silver. 

“As I was saying,” continued Voldemort, looking again 
at the tense faces of his followers, “I understand 
better now. I shall need, for instance, to borrow a 
wand from one of you before I go to kill Potter.” 

The faces around him displayed nothing but shock; 
he might have announced that he wanted to borrow 
one of their arms. 

“No volunteers?” said Voldemort. “Let’s see ... Lucius, 
I see no reason for you to have a wand anymore.” 

Lucius Malfoy looked up. His skin appeared yellowish 
and waxy in the firelight, and his eyes were sunken 
and shadowed. When he spoke, his voice was hoarse. 

“My Lord?” 

“Your wand, Lucius. I require your wand.” 



Malfoy glanced sideways at his wife. She was staring 
straight ahead, quite as pale as he was, her long 
blonde hair hanging down her back, but beneath the 
table her slim fingers closed briefly on his wrist. At 
her touch, Malfoy put his hand into his robes, 
withdrew a wand, and passed it along to Voldemort, 
who held it up in front of his red eyes, examining it 
closely. 

“What is it?” 

Page | 9 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Elm, my Lord,” whispered Malfoy. 



“And the core?” 

“Dragon — dragon heartstring.” 

“Good,” said Voldemort. He drew out his own wand 
and compared the lengths. Lucius Malfoy made an 
involuntary movement; for a fraction of a second, it 
seemed he expected to receive Voldemort’s wand in 
exchange for his own. The gesture was not missed by 
Voldemort, whose eyes widened maliciously. 

“Give you my wand, Lucius? My wand?” 

Some of the throng sniggered. 

“I have given you your liberty, Lucius, is that not 
enough for you? But I have noticed that you and your 
family seem less than happy of late. ... What is it 
about my presence in your home that displeases you, 
Lucius?” 

“Nothing — nothing, my Lord!” 

“Such lies, Lucius ...” 

The soft voice seemed to hiss on even after the cruel 
mouth had stopped moving. One or two of the wizards 
barely repressed a shudder as the hissing grew 
louder; something heavy could be heard sliding 
across the floor beneath the table. 

The huge snake emerged to climb slowly up 
Voldemort’s chair. It rose, seemingly endlessly, and 
came to rest across Voldemort’s shoulders: its neck 
the thickness of a man’s thigh; its eyes, with their 
vertical slits for pupils, unblinking. Voldemort stroked 

Page | 10 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the creature absently with long thin fingers, still 
looking at Lucius Malfoy. 

“Why do the Malfoys look so unhappy with their lot? 

Is my return, my rise to power, not the very thing they 
professed to desire for so many years?” 

“Of course, my Lord,” said Lucius Malfoy. His hand 
shook as he wiped sweat from his upper lip. “We did 
desire it — we do.” 

To Malfoy’s left, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her 
eyes averted from Voldemort and the snake. To his 
right, his son, Draco, who had been gazing up at the 
inert body overhead, glanced quickly at Voldemort 
and away again, terrified to make eye contact. 

“My Lord,” said a dark woman halfway down the 
table, her voice constricted with emotion, “it is an 
honor to have you here, in our family’s house. There 
can be no higher pleasure.” 

She sat beside her sister, as unlike her in looks, with 
her dark hair and heavily lidded eyes, as she was in 
bearing and demeanor; where Narcissa sat rigid and 
impassive, Bellatrix leaned toward Voldemort, for 
mere words could not demonstrate her longing for 
closeness. 

“No higher pleasure,” repeated Voldemort, his head 
tilted a little to one side as he considered Bellatrix. 
“That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you.” 

Her face flooded with color; her eyes welled with tears 
of delight. 

“My Lord knows I speak nothing but the truth!” 



Page | 11 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No higher pleasure ... even compared with the happy 
event that, I hear, has taken place in your family this 
week?” 



She stared at him, her lips parted, evidently confused. 

“I don’t know what you mean, my Lord.” 

“I’m talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And yours, 
Lucius and Narcissa. She has just married the 
werewolf, Remus Lupin. You must be so proud.” 

There was an eruption of jeering laughter from 
around the table. Many leaned forward to exchange 
gleeful looks; a few thumped the table with their fists. 
The great snake, disliking the disturbance, opened its 
mouth wide and hissed angrily, but the Death Eaters 
did not hear it, so jubilant were they at Bellatrix and 
the Malfoys’ humiliation. Bellatrix’s face, so recently 
flushed with happiness, had turned an ugly, blotchy 
red. 

“She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried over the 
outpouring of mirth. “We — Narcissa and I — have 
never set eyes on our sister since she married the 
Mudblood. This brat has nothing to do with either of 
us, nor any beast she marries.” 

“What say you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, and though 
his voice was quiet, it carried clearly through the 
catcalls and jeers. “Will you babysit the cubs?” 

The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at 
his father, who was staring down into his own lap, 
then caught his mother’s eye. She shook her head 
almost imperceptibly, then resumed her own deadpan 
stare at the opposite wall. 



Page | 12 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Enough,” said Voldemort, stroking the angry snake. 
“Enough.” 

And the laughter died at once. 

“Many of our oldest family trees become a little 
diseased over time,” he said as Bellatrix gazed at him, 
breathless and imploring. “You must prune yours, 
must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those 
parts that threaten the health of the rest.” 

“Yes, my Lord,” whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes 
swam with tears of gratitude again. “At the first 
chance!” 

“You shall have it,” said Voldemort. “And in your 
family, so in the world . . . we shall cut away the 
canker that infects us until only those of the true 
blood remain. ...” 

Voldemort raised Lucius Malfoy’s wand, pointed it 
directly at the slowly revolving figure suspended over 
the table, and gave it a tiny flick. The figure came to 
life with a groan and began to struggle against 
invisible bonds. 

“Do you recognize our guest, Severus?” asked 
Voldemort. 

Snape raised his eyes to the upside-down face. All of 
the Death Eaters were looking up at the captive now, 
as though they had been given permission to show 
curiosity. As she revolved to face the firelight, the 
woman said in a cracked and terrified voice, “Severus! 
Help me!” 

“Ah, yes,” said Snape as the prisoner turned slowly 
away again. 



Page | 13 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“And you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, stroking the 
snake’s snout with his wand-free hand. Draco shook 
his head jerkily. Now that the woman had woken, he 
seemed unable to look at her anymore. 

“But you would not have taken her classes,” said 
Voldemort. “For those of you who do not know, we are 
joined here tonight by Charity Burbage who, until 
recently, taught at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and 
Wizardry.” 

There were small noises of comprehension around the 
table. A broad, hunched woman with pointed teeth 
cackled. 

“Yes . . . Professor Burbage taught the children of 
witches and wizards all about Muggles . . . how they 
are not so different from us ...” 

One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Charity 
Burbage revolved to face Snape again. 

“Severus ... please ... please ...” 

“Silence,” said Voldemort, with another twitch of 
Malfoy’s wand, and Charity fell silent as if gagged. 

“Not content with corrupting and polluting the minds 
of Wizarding children, last week Professor Burbage 
wrote an impassioned defense of Mudbloods in the 
Daily Prophet Wizards, she says, must accept these 
thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling 
of the purebloods is, says Professor Burbage, a most 
desirable circumstance. ... She would have us all 
mate with Muggles ... or, no doubt, werewolves. ...” 

Nobody laughed this time: There was no mistaking 
the anger and contempt in Voldemort’s voice. For the 
third time, Charity Burbage revolved to face Snape. 
Tears were pouring from her eyes into her hair. Snape 

Page | 14 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




looked back at her, quite impassive, as she turned 
slowly away from him again. 

“Avada Kedavra.” 

The flash of green light illuminated every corner of the 
room. Charity fell, with a resounding crash, onto the 
table below, which trembled and creaked. Several of 
the Death Eaters leapt back in their chairs. Draco fell 
out of his onto the floor. 

“Dinner, Nagini,” said Voldemort softly, and the great 
snake swayed and slithered from his shoulders onto 
the polished wood. 



Page | 15 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






IN MEMORIAM 

Harry was bleeding. Clutching his right hand in his 
left and swearing under his breath, he shouldered 
open his bedroom door. There was a crunch of 
breaking china: He had trodden on a cup of cold tea 
that had been sitting on the floor outside his bedroom 
door. 

“What the — ?” 

He looked around; the landing of number four, Privet 
Drive, was deserted. Possibly the cup of tea was 
Dudley’s idea of a clever booby trap. Keeping his 
bleeding hand elevated, Harry scraped the fragments 
of cup together with the other hand and threw them 
into the already crammed bin just visible inside his 
bedroom door. Then he tramped across to the 
bathroom to run his finger under the tap. 

It was stupid, pointless, irritating beyond belief that 
he still had four days left of being unable to perform 
magic . . . but he had to admit to himself that this 
jagged cut in his finger would have defeated him. He 

Page | 16 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 



had never learned how to repair wounds, and now he 
came to think of it — particularly in light of his 
immediate plans — this seemed a serious flaw in his 
magical education. Making a mental note to ask 
Hermione how it was done, he used a large wad of 
toilet paper to mop up as much of the tea as he could, 
before returning to his bedroom and slamming the 
door behind him. 

Harry had spent the morning completely emptying his 
school trunk for the first time since he had packed it 
six years ago. At the start of the intervening school 
years, he had merely skimmed off the topmost three 
quarters of the contents and replaced or updated 
them, leaving a layer of general debris at the bottom 
— old quills, desiccated beetle eyes, single socks that 
no longer fit. Minutes previously, Harry had plunged 
his hand into this mulch, experienced a stabbing pain 
in the fourth finger of his right hand, and withdrawn 
it to see a lot of blood. 

He now proceeded a little more cautiously. Kneeling 
down beside the trunk again, he groped around in the 
bottom and, after retrieving an old badge that 
flickered feebly between Support CEDRIC DIGGORY 
and POTTER STINKS , a cracked and worn-out 
Sneakoscope, and a gold locket inside which a note 
signed R.A.B. had been hidden, he finally discovered 
the sharp edge that had done the damage. He 
recognized it at once. It was a two-inch-long fragment 
of the enchanted mirror that his dead godfather, 
Sirius, had given him. Harry laid it aside and felt 
cautiously around the trunk for the rest, but nothing 
more remained of his godfather’s last gift except 
powdered glass, which clung to the deepest layer of 
debris like glittering grit. 

Harry sat up and examined the jagged piece on which 
he had cut himself, seeing nothing but his own bright 

Page | 17 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




green eye reflected back at him. Then he placed the 
fragment on top of that morning’s Daily Prophet, 
which lay unread on the bed, and attempted to stem 
the sudden upsurge of bitter memories, the stabs of 
regret and of longing the discovery of the broken 
mirror had occasioned, by attacking the rest of the 
rubbish in the trunk. 

It took another hour to empty it completely, throw 
away the useless items, and sort the remainder in 
piles according to whether or not he would need them 
from now on. His school and Quidditch robes, 
cauldron, parchment, quills, and most of his 
textbooks were piled in a corner, to be left behind. He 
wondered what his aunt and uncle would do with 
them; burn them in the dead of night, probably, as if 
they were the evidence of some dreadful crime. His 
Muggle clothing, Invisibility Cloak, potion-making kit, 
certain books, the photograph album Hagrid had once 
given him, a stack of letters, and his wand had been 
repacked into an old rucksack. In a front pocket were 
the Marauder’s Map and the locket with the note 
signed R.A.B. inside it. The locket was accorded this 
place of honor not because it was valuable — in all 
usual senses it was worthless — but because of what 
it had cost to attain it. 

This left a sizable stack of newspapers sitting on his 
desk beside his snowy owl, Hedwig: one for each of 
the days Harry had spent at Privet Drive this 
summer. 

He got up off the floor, stretched, and moved across to 
his desk. Hedwig made no movement as he began to 
flick through the newspapers, throwing them onto the 
rubbish pile one by one. The owl was asleep, or else 
faking; she was angry with Harry about the limited 
amount of time she was allowed out of her cage at the 
moment. 

Page | 18 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




As he neared the bottom of the pile of newspapers, 
Harry slowed down, searching for one particular issue 
that he knew had arrived shortly after he had 
returned to Privet Drive for the summer; he 
remembered that there had been a small mention on 
the front about the resignation of Charity Burbage, 
the Muggle Studies teacher at Hogwarts. At last he 
found it. Turning to page ten, he sank into his desk 
chair and reread the article he had been looking for. 

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE REMEMBERED 

by Elphias Doge 

I met Albus Dumbledore at the age of eleven, on our 
first day at Hogwarts. Our mutual attraction was 
undoubtedly due to the fact that we both felt 
ourselves to be outsiders. I had contracted dragon 
pox shortly before arriving at school, and while I was 
no longer contagious, my pockmarked visage and 
greenish hue did not encourage many to approach 
me. For his part, Albus had arrived at Hogwarts 
under the burden of unwanted notoriety. Scarcely a 
year previously, his father, Percival, had been 
convicted of a savage and well-publicized attack upon 
three young Muggles. 

Albus never attempted to deny that his father (who 
was to die in Azkaban) had committed this crime; on 
the contrary, when I plucked up courage to ask him, he 
assured me that he knew his father to be guilty. 
Beyond that, Dumbledore refused to speak of the sad 
business, though many attempted to make him do so. 
Some, indeed, were disposed to praise his father’s 
action and assumed that Albus too was a Muggle- 
hater. They could not have been more mistaken: As 
anybody who knew Albus would attest, he never 
revealed the remotest anti-Muggle tendency. Indeed, 



Page | 19 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




his determined support for Muggle rights gained him 
many enemies in subsequent years. 

In a matter of months, however, Albus’s own fame 
had begun to eclipse that of his father. By the end of 
his first year he would never again be known as the 
son of a Muggle-hater, but as nothing more or less 
than the most brilliant student ever seen at the 
school. Those of us who were privileged to be his 
friends benefited from his example, not to mention his 
help and encouragement, with which he was always 
generous. He confessed to me in later life that he 
knew even then that his greatest pleasure lay in 
teaching. 

He not only won every prize of note that the school 
offered, he was soon in regular correspondence with 
the most notable magical names of the day, including 
Nicolas Flamel, the celebrated alchemist ; Bathilda 
Bagshot, the noted historian; and Adalbert Waffling, 
the magical theoretician. Several of his papers found 
their way into learned publications such as 
Transfiguration Today, Challenges in Charming, and 
The Practical Potioneer. Dumbledore’s future career 
seemed likely to be meteoric, and the only question 
that remained was when he would become Minister of 
Magic. Though it was often predicted in later years that 
he was on the point of taking the job, however, he 
never had Ministerial ambitions. 

Three years after we had started at Hogwarts, Albus’s 
brother, Aberforth, arrived at school. They were not 
alike; Aberforth was never bookish and, unlike Albus, 
preferred to settle arguments by dueling rather than 
through reasoned discussion. However, it is quite 
wrong to suggest, as some have, that the brothers 
were not friends. They rubbed along as comfortably as 
two such different boys could do. In fairness to 
Aberforth, it must be admitted that living in Albus’s 
Page | 20 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




shadow cannot have been an altogether comfortable 
experience. Being continually outshone was an 
occupational hazard of being his friend and cannot 
have been any more pleasurable as a brother. 

When Albus and I left Hogwarts we intended to take 
the then- traditional tour of the world together, visiting 
and observing foreign wizards, before pursuing our 
separate careers. However, tragedy intervened. On the 
very eve of our trip, Albus’s mother, Kendra, died, 
leaving Albus the head, and sole breadwinner, of the 
family. I postponed my departure long enough to pay 
my respects at Kendra’s funeral, then left for what 
was now to be a solitary journey. With a younger 
brother and sister to care for, and little gold left to 
them, there could no longer be any question of Albus 
accompanying me. 

That was the period of our lives when we had least 
contact. I wrote to Albus, describing, perhaps 
insensitively, the wonders of my journey, from narrow 
escapes from chimaeras in Greece to the experiments 
of the Egyptian alchemists. His letters told me little of 
his day-to-day life, which I guessed to be frustratingly 
dull for such a brilliant wizard. Immersed in my own 
experiences, it was with horror that I heard, toward 
the end of my year’s travels, that yet another tragedy 
had struck the Dumbledores: the death of his sister, 
Ariana. 

Though Ariana had been in poor health for a long 
time, the blow, coming so soon after the loss of their 
mother, had a profound effect on both of her 
brothers. All those closest to Albus — and I count 
myself one of that lucky number — agree that 
Ariana ’s death, and Albus’s feeling of personal 
responsibility for it (though, of course, he was 
guiltless), left their mark upon him forevermore. 



Page | 21 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




I returned home to find a young man who had 
experienced a much older person’s suffering. Albus 
was more reserved than before, and much less light- 
hearted. To add to his misery, the loss of Ariana had 
led, not to a renewed closeness between Albus and 
Aberforth, but to an estrangement. (In time this would 
lift — in later years they reestablished, if not a close 
relationship, then certainly a cordial one.) However, 
he rarely spoke of his parents or of Ariana from then 
on, and his friends learned not to mention them. 

Other quills will describe the triumphs of the following 
years. Dumbledore’s innumerable contributions to the 
store of Wizarding knowledge, including his discovery 
of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, will benefit 
generations to come, as will the wisdom he displayed 
in the many judgments he made while Chief Warlock of 
the Wizengamot. They say, still, that no Wizarding duel 
ever matched that between Dumbledore and 
Grindelwald in 1 945. Those who witnessed it have 
written of the terror and the awe they felt as they 
watched these two extraordinary wizards do battle. 
Dumbledore’s triumph, and its consequences for the 
Wizarding world, are considered a turning point in 
magical history to match the introduction of the 
International Statute of Secrecy or the downfall of He- 
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. 

Albus Dumbledore was never proud or vain; he could 
find something to value in anyone, however 
apparently insignificant or wretched, and I believe 
that his early losses endowed him with great 
humanity and sympathy. I shall miss his friendship 
more than I can say, but my loss is as nothing 
compared to the Wizarding world’s. That he was the 
most inspiring and the best loved of all Hogwarts 
headmasters cannot be in question. He died as he 
lived: working always for the greater good and, to his 
last hour, as willing to stretch out a hand to a small 
Page | 22 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




boy with dragon pox as he was on the day that I met 
him. 

Harry finished reading but continued to gaze at the 
picture accompanying the obituary. Dumbledore was 
wearing his familiar, kindly smile, but as he peered 
over the top of his half-moon spectacles, he gave the 
impression, even in newsprint, of X-raying Harry, 
whose sadness mingled with a sense of humiliation. 

He had thought he knew Dumbledore quite well, but 
ever since reading this obituary he had been forced to 
recognize that he had barely known him at all. Never 
once had he imagined Dumbledore ’s childhood or 
youth; it was as though he had sprung into being as 
Harry had known him, venerable and silver-haired 
and old. The idea of a teenage Dumbledore was 
simply odd, like trying to imagine a stupid Hermione 
or a friendly Blast-Ended Skrewt. 

He had never thought to ask Dumbledore about his 
past. No doubt it would have felt strange, impertinent 
even, but after all, it had been common knowledge 
that Dumbledore had taken part in that legendary 
duel with Grindelwald, and Harry had not thought to 
ask Dumbledore what that had been like, nor about 
any of his other famous achievements. No, they had 
always discussed Harry, Harry’s past, Harry’s future, 
Harry’s plans ... and it seemed to Harry now, despite 
the fact that his future was so dangerous and so 
uncertain, that he had missed irreplaceable 
opportunities when he had failed to ask Dumbledore 
more about himself, even though the only personal 
question he had ever asked his headmaster was also 
the only one he suspected that Dumbledore had not 
answered honestly: 

“ What do you see when you look in the mirror?” 



Page | 23 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“/? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks.” 

After several minutes’ thought, Harry tore the 
obituary out of the Prophet, folded it carefully, and 
tucked it inside the first volume of Practical Defensive 
Magic and Its Use Against the Dark Arts. Then he 
