“Be careful, Mr. Weasley, or I shall have to put you in 
detention,” said Umbridge. “Well, Mr. Potter?” 

Harry hesitated, but he did not see how he could keep 
what he had done quiet; it was surely only a matter of 
time before a copy of The Quibbler came to Umbridge’s 
attention. 

“People have written to me because I gave an 
interview,” said Harry. “About what happened to me 
last June.” 

For some reason he glanced up at the staff table as he 
said this. He had the strangest feeling that 
Dumbledore had been watching him a second before, 
but when he looked, Dumbledore seemed to be 
absorbed in conversation with Professor Flitwick. 

“An interview?” repeated Umbridge, her voice thinner 
and higher than ever. “What do you mean?” 

“I mean a reporter asked me questions and I 
answered them,” said Harry. “Here — ” 

And he threw the copy of The Quibbler at her. She 
caught it and stared down at the cover. Her pale, 
doughy face turned an ugly, patchy violet. 

“When did you do this?” she asked, her voice 
trembling slightly. 

“Last Hogsmeade weekend,” said Harry. 

She looked up at him, incandescent with rage, the 
magazine shaking in her stubby fingers. 



Page | 740Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“There will be no more Hogsmeade trips for you, Mr. 
Potter,” she whispered. “How you dare ... how you 
could ...” She took a deep breath. “I have tried again 
and again to teach you not to tell lies. The message, 
apparently, has still not sunk in. Fifty points from 
Gryffindor and another week’s worth of detentions.” 

She stalked away, clutching The Quibbler to her 
chest, the eyes of many students following her. 

By mid-morning enormous signs had been put up all 
over the school, not just on House notice boards, but 
in the corridors and classrooms too. 

— BY ORDER OF — 

THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS 

Any student found in possession of the magazine The 
Quibbler will be expelled. 

The above is in accordance with 

Educational Decree Number Twenty-seven. 

Signed: 

Dolores Jane Umbridge 
HIGH INQUISITOR 

For some reason, every time Hermione caught sight of 
one of these signs she beamed with pleasure. 

“What exactly are you so happy about?” Harry asked 
her. 



Page | 741Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh Harry, don’t you see?” Hermione breathed. “If she 
could have done one thing to make absolutely sure 
that every single person in this school will read your 
interview, it was banning it!” 

And it seemed that Hermione was quite right. By the 
end of that day, though Harry had not seen so much 
as a corner of The Quibbler anywhere in the school, 
the whole place seemed to be quoting the interview at 
each other; Harry heard them whispering about it as 
they queued up outside classes, discussing it over 
lunch and in the back of lessons, while Hermione 
even reported that every occupant of the cubicles in 
the girls’ toilets had been talking about it when she 
nipped in there before Ancient Runes. 

“And then they spotted me, and obviously they know I 
know you, so they were bombarding me with 
questions,” Hermione told Harry, her eyes shining, 
“and Harry, I think they believe you, I really do, I 
think you’ve finally got them convinced!” 

Meanwhile Professor Umbridge was stalking the 
school, stopping students at random and demanding 
that they turn out their books and pockets. Harry 
knew she was looking for copies of The Quibbler, but 
the students were several steps ahead of her. The 
pages carrying Harry’s interview had been bewitched 
to resemble extracts from textbooks if anyone but 
themselves read it, or else wiped magically blank until 
they wanted to peruse it again. Soon it seemed that 
every single person in the school had read it. 

The teachers were, of course, forbidden from 
mentioning the interview by Educational Decree 
Number Twenty-six, but they found ways to express 
their feelings about it all the same. Professor Sprout 
awarded Gryffindor twenty points when Harry passed 
her a watering can; a beaming Professor Flitwick 
Page | 742Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




pressed a box of squeaking sugar mice on him at the 
end of Charms, said “Shh\” and hurried away; and 
Professor Trelawney broke into hysterical sobs during 
Divination and announced to the startled class, and a 
very disapproving Umbridge, that Harry was not going 
to suffer an early death after all, but would live to a 
ripe old age, become Minister of Magic, and have 
twelve children. 

But what made Harry happiest was Cho catching up 
with him as he was hurrying along to Transfiguration 
the next day. Before he knew what had happened her 
hand was in his and she was breathing in his ear, 

“I’m really, really sorry. That interview was so brave 
...it made me cry.” 

He was sorry to hear she had shed even more tears 
over it, but very glad they were on speaking terms 
again, and even more pleased when she gave him a 
swift kiss on the cheek and hurried off again. And 
unbelievably, no sooner had he arrived outside 
Transfiguration than something just as good 
happened: Seamus stepped out of the queue to face 
him. 

“I just wanted to say,” he mumbled, squinting at 
Harry’s left knee, “I believe you. And I’ve sent a copy 
of that magazine to me mam.” 

If anything more was needed to complete Harry’s 
happiness, it was Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle’s 
reactions. He saw them with their heads together 
later that afternoon in the library, together with a 
weedy-looking boy Hermione whispered was called 
Theodore Nott. They looked around at Harry as he 
browsed the shelves for the book he needed on Partial 
Vanishment, and Goyle cracked his knuckles 
threateningly and Malfoy whispered something 
undoubtedly malevolent to Crabbe. Harry knew 
Page | 743Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




perfectly well why they were acting like this: He had 
named all of their fathers as Death Eaters. 

“And the best bit is,” whispered Hermione gleefully as 
they left the library, “they can’t contradict you, 
because they can’t admit they’ve read the article!” 

To cap it all, Luna told him over dinner that no copy 
of The Quibbler had ever sold out faster. 

“Dad’s reprinting!” she told Harry, her eyes popping 
excitedly. “He can’t believe it, he says people seem 
even more interested in this than the Crumple- 
Horned Snorkacks!” 

Harry was a hero in the Gryffindor common room that 
night; daringly, Fred and George had put an 
Enlargement Charm on the front cover of The 
Quibbler and hung it on the wall, so that Harry’s giant 
head gazed down upon the proceedings, occasionally 
saying things like “The Ministry are morons” and “Eat 
dung, Umbridge” in a booming voice. Hermione did 
not find this very amusing; she said it interfered with 
her concentration, and ended up going to bed early 
out of irritation. Harry had to admit that the poster 
was not quite as funny after an hour or two, 
especially when the talking spell had started to wear 
off, so that it merely shouted disconnected words like 
“Dung” and “Umbridge” at more and more frequent 
intervals in a progressively higher voice. In fact it 
started to make his head ache and his scar began 
prickling uncomfortably again. To disappointed 
moans from the many people who were sitting around 
him, asking him to relive his interview for the 
umpteenth time, he announced that he too needed an 
early night. 

The dormitory was empty when he reached it. He 
rested his forehead for a moment against the cool 

Page | 744Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




glass of the window beside his bed; it felt soothing 
against his scar. Then he undressed and got into bed, 
wishing his headache would go away. He also felt 
slightly sick. He rolled over onto his side, closed his 
eyes, and fell asleep almost at once... 

He was standing in a dark, curtained room lit by a 
single branch of candles. His hands were clenched on 
the back of a chair in front of him. They were long- 
fingered and white as though they had not seen 
sunlight for years and looked like large, pale spiders 
against the dark velvet of the chair. 

Beyond the chair, in a pool of light cast upon the floor 
by the candles, knelt a man in black robes. 

“I have been badly advised, it seems,” said Harry, in a 
high, cold voice that pulsed with anger. 

“Master, I crave your pardon...” croaked the man 
kneeling on the floor. The back of his head glimmered 
in the candlelight. He seemed to be trembling. 

“I do not blame you, Rookwood,” said Harry in that 
cold, cruel voice. 

He relinquished his grip upon the chair and walked 
around it, closer to the man cowering upon the floor, 
until he stood directly over him in the darkness, 
looking down from a far greater height than usual. 

“You are sure of your facts, Rookwood?” asked Harry. 

“Yes, My Lord, yes ... I used to work in the 
department after — after all...” 

“Avery told me Bode would be able to remove it.” 



Page | 745Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Bode could never have taken it, Master. . . Bode would 
have known he could not... Undoubtedly that is why 
he fought so hard against Malfoy’s Imperius Curse...” 

“Stand up, Rookwood,” whispered Harry. 

The kneeling man almost fell over in his haste to 
obey. His face was pockmarked; the scars were 
thrown into relief by the candlelight. He remained a 
little stooped when standing, as though halfway 
through a bow, and he darted terrified looks up at 
Harry’s face. 

“You have done well to tell me this,” said Harry. “Very 
well ... I have wasted months on fruitless schemes, it 
seems... But no matter ... We begin again, from now. 
You have Lord Voldemort’s gratitude, Rookwood...” 

“My Lord ... yes, My Lord,” gasped Rookwood, his 
voice hoarse with relief. 

“I shall need your help. I shall need all the 
information you can give me.” 

“Of course, My Lord, of course ... anything ...” 

“Very well ... you may go. Send Avery to me.” 

Rookwood scurried backward, bowing, and 
disappeared through a door. 

Left alone in the dark room, Harry turned toward the 
wall. A cracked, age-spotted mirror hung on the wall 
in the shadows. Harry moved toward it. His reflection 
grew larger and clearer in the darkness... A face 
whiter than a skull . . . red eyes with slits for pupils . . . 

“NOOOOOOOOO!” 



Page | 746Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” yelled a voice nearby. 



Harry flailed around madly, became entangled in the 
hangings, and fell out of his bed. For a few seconds 
he did not know where he was; he was convinced that 
he was about to see the white, skull-like face looming 
at him out of the dark again, then Ron’s voice spoke 
very near to him. 

“Will you stop acting like a maniac, and I can get you 
out of here!” 

Ron wrenched the hangings apart, and Harry stared 
up at him in the moonlight, as he lay flat on his back, 
his scar searing with pain. Ron looked as though he 
had just been getting ready for bed; one arm was out 
of his robes. 

“Has someone been attacked again?” asked Ron, 
pulling Harry roughly to his feet. “Is it Dad? Is it that 
snake?” 

“No — everyone’s fine — ” gasped Harry, whose 
forehead felt as though it was on fire again. “Well ... 
Avery isn’t... He’s in trouble... He gave him the wrong 
information... He’s really angry...” 

Harry groaned and sank, shaking, onto his bed, 
rubbing his scar. 

“But Rookwood’s going to help him now... He’s on the 
right track again...” 

“What are you talking about?” said Ron, sounding 
scared. “D’you mean ... did you just see You-Know- 
Who?” 

“I was You-Know-Who,” said Harry, and he stretched 
out his hands in the darkness and held them up to 

Page | 747Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




his face to check that they were no longer deathly 
white and long-fingered. “He was with Rookwood, he’s 
one of the Death Eaters who escaped from Azkaban, 
remember? Rookwood’s just told him Bode couldn’t 
have done it...” 

“Done what?” 

“Remove something. . . He said Bode would have 
known he couldn’t have done it... Bode was under the 
Imperius Curse... I think he said Malfoy’s dad put it 
on him...” 

“Bode was bewitched to remove something?” Ron 
said. “But — Harry, that’s got to be — ” 

“The weapon,” Harry finished the sentence for him. “I 
know.” 

The dormitory door opened; Dean and Seamus came 
in. Harry swung his legs back into bed. He did not 
want to look as though anything odd had just 
happened, seeing as Seamus had only just stopped 
thinking Harry was a nutter. 

“Did you say,” murmured Ron, putting his head close 
to Harry’s on the pretense of helping himself to water 
from the jug on his bedside table, “that you were You- 
Know-Who?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry quietly. 

Ron took an unnecessarily large gulp of water. Harry 
saw it spill over his chin onto his chest. 

“Harry,” he said, as Dean and Seamus clattered 
around noisily, pulling off their robes, and talking, 
“you’ve got to tell — ” 



Page | 748Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I haven’t got to tell anyone,” said Harry shortly. “I 
wouldn’t have seen it at all if I could do Occlumency. 
I’m supposed to have learned to shut this stuff out. 
That’s what they want.” 

By “they” he meant Dumbledore. He got back into bed 
and rolled over onto his side with his back to Ron and 
after a while he heard Ron’s mattress creak as he lay 
back down too. His scar began to burn; he bit hard on 
his pillow to stop himself making a noise. Somewhere, 
he knew, Avery was being punished... 

Harry and Ron waited until break next morning to tell 
Hermione exactly what had happened. They wanted 
to be absolutely sure they could not be overheard. 
Standing in their usual corner of the cool and breezy 
courtyard, Harry told her every detail of the dream he 
could remember. When he had finished, she said 
nothing at all for a few moments, but stared with a 
kind of painful intensity at Fred and George, who 
were both headless and selling their magical hats 
from under their cloaks on the other side of the yard. 

“So that’s why they killed him,” she said quietly, 
withdrawing her gaze from Fred and George at last. 
“When Bode tried to steal this weapon, something 
funny happened to him. I think there must be 
defensive spells on it, or around it, to stop people 
from touching it. That’s why he was in St. Mungo’s, 
his brain had gone all funny and he couldn’t talk. But 
remember what the Healer told us? He was 
recovering. And they couldn’t risk him getting better, 
could they? I mean, the shock of whatever happened 
when he touched that weapon probably made the 
Imperius Curse lift. Once he’d got his voice back, he’d 
explain what he’d been doing, wouldn’t he? They 
would have known he’d been sent to steal the 
weapon. Of course, it would have been easy for 



Page | 749Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Lucius Malfoy to put the curse on him. Never out of 
the Ministry, is he?” 

“He was even hanging around that day I had my 
hearing,” said Harry. “In the — hang on ...” he said 
slowly. “He was in the Department of Mysteries 
corridor that day! Your dad said he was probably 
trying to sneak down and find out what happened in 
my hearing, but what if — ” 

“Sturgis,” gasped Hermione, looking thunderstruck. 

“Sorry?” said Ron, looking bewildered. 

“Sturgis Podmore,” said Hermione, breathlessly. 
“Arrested for trying to get through a door. Lucius 
Malfoy got him too. I bet he did it the day you saw 
him there, Harry. Sturgis had Moody’s Invisibility 
Cloak, right? So what if he was standing guard by the 
door, invisible, and Malfoy heard him move, or 
guessed he was there, or just did the Imperius Curse 
on the off chance that a guard was there? So when 
Sturgis next had an opportunity — probably when it 
was his turn on guard duty again — he tried to get 
into the department to steal the weapon for Voldemort 
— Ron, be quiet — but he got caught and sent to 
Azkaban...” 

She gazed at Harry. 

“And now Rookwood’s told Voldemort how to get the 
weapon?” 

“I didn’t hear all the conversation, but that’s what it 
sounded like,” said Harry. “Rookwood used to work 
there... Maybe Voldemort’ll send Rookwood to do it?” 



Page | 750Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione nodded, apparently still lost in thought. 
Then, quite abruptly, she said, “But you shouldn’t 
have seen this at all, Harry.” 

“What?” he said, taken aback. 

“You’re supposed to be learning how to close your 
mind to this sort of thing,” said Hermione, suddenly 
stern. 

“I know I am,” said Harry. “But — ” 

“Well, I think we should just try and forget what you 
saw,” said Hermione firmly. “And you ought to put in 
a bit more effort on your Occlumency from now on.” 

Harry was so angry with her that he did not talk to 
her for the rest of the day, which proved to be another 
bad one. When people were not discussing the 
escaped Death Eaters in the corridors today, they 
were laughing at Gryffindor’s abysmal performance in 
their match against Hufflepuff; the Slytherins were 
singing “Weasley Is Our King” so loudly and 
frequently that by sundown Filch had banned it from 
the corridors out of sheer irritation. 

The week did not improve as it progressed: Harry 
received two more D’s in Potions, was still on 
tenterhooks that Hagrid might get the sack, and 
could not stop himself from dwelling on the dream in 
which he had seen Voldemort, though he did not 
bring it up with Ron and Hermione again because he 
did not want another telling-off from Hermione. He 
wished very much that he could have talked to Sirius 
about it, but that was out of the question, so he tried 
to push the matter to the back of his mind. 

Unfortunately, the back of his mind was no longer the 
secure place it had once been. 

Page | 751Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Get up, Potter.” 



A couple of weeks after his dream of Rookwood, Harry 
was to be found, yet again, kneeling on the floor of 
Snape’s office, trying to clear his head. He had just 
been forced, yet again, to relive a stream of very early 
memories he had not even realized he still had, most 
of them concerning humiliations Dudley and his gang 
had inflicted upon him in primary school. 

“That last memory,” said Snape. “What was it?” 

“I don’t know,” said Harry, getting wearily to his feet. 
He was finding it increasingly difficult to disentangle 
separate memories from the rush of images and 
sound that Snape kept calling forth. “You mean the 
one where my cousin tried to make me stand in the 
toilet?” 

“No,” said Snape softly. “I mean the one concerning a 
man kneeling in the middle of a darkened room...” 

“It’s ... nothing,” said Harry. 

Snape’s dark eyes bored into Harry’s. Remembering 
what Snape had said about eye contact being crucial 
to Legilimency, Harry blinked and looked away. 

“How do that man and that room come to be inside 
your head, Potter?” said Snape. 

“It — ” said Harry, looking everywhere but at Snape, 

“it was — just a dream I had.” 

“A dream,” repeated Snape. 

There was a pause during which Harry stared fixedly 
at a large dead frog suspended in a purple liquid in 
its jar. 

Page | 752Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You do know why we are here, don’t you, Potter?” 
said Snape in a low, dangerous voice. “You do know 
why I am giving up my evenings to this tedious job?” 

“Yes,” said Harry stiffly. 

“Remind me why we are here, Potter.” 

“So I can learn Occlumency,” said Harry, now glaring 
at a dead eel. 

“Correct, Potter. And dim though you may be” — 
Harry looked back at Snape, hating him — “I would 
have thought that after two months’ worth of lessons 
you might have made some progress. How many other 
dreams about the Dark Lord have you had?” 

“Just that one,” lied Harry. 

“Perhaps,” said Snape, his dark, cold eyes narrowing 
slightly, “perhaps you actually enjoy having these 
visions and dreams, Potter. Maybe they make you feel 
special — important?” 

“No, they don’t,” said Harry, his jaw set and his 
fingers clenched tightly around the handle of his 
wand. 

“That is just as well, Potter,” said Snape coldly, 
“because you are neither special nor important, and it 
is not up to you to find out what the Dark Lord is 
saying to his Death Eaters.” 

“No — that’s your job, isn’t it?” Harry shot at him. 

He had not meant to say it; it had burst out of him in 
temper. For a long moment they stared at each other, 
Harry convinced he had gone too far. But there was a 



Page | 753Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




curious, almost satisfied expression on Snape’s face 
when he answered. 



“Yes, Potter,” he said, his eyes glinting. “That is my 
job. Now, if you are ready, we will start again...” 

He raised his wand. “One — two — three — 
LegilimensV’ 

A hundred dementors were swooping toward Harry 
across the lake in the grounds... He screwed up his 
face in concentration... They were coming closer... He 
could see the dark holes beneath their hoods . . . yet 
he could also see Snape standing in front of him, his 
eyes fixed upon Harry’s face, muttering under his 
breath... And somehow, Snape was growing clearer, 
and the dementors were growing fainter . . . 

Harry raised his own wand. 

“Protegol” 

Snape staggered; his wand flew upward, away from 
Harry — and suddenly Harry’s mind was teeming 
with memories that were not his — a hook-nosed man 
was shouting at a cowering woman, while a small 
dark-haired boy cried in a corner. . . A greasy-haired 
teenager sat alone in a dark bedroom, pointing his 
wand at the ceiling, shooting down flies... A girl was 
laughing as a scrawny boy tried to mount a bucking 
broomstick — 

“ENOUGH!” 

Harry felt as though he had been pushed hard in the 
chest; he took several staggering steps backward, hit 
some of the shelves covering Snape’s walls and heard 
something crack. Snape was shaking slightly, very 
white in the face. 

Page | 754Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The back of Harry’s robes were damp. One of the jars 
behind him had broken when he fell against it; the 
pickled slimy thing within was swirling in its draining 
potion. 

“Reparo\” hissed Snape, and the jar sealed itself once 
more. “Well, Potter ... that was certainly an 
improvement...” Panting slightly, Snape straightened 
the Pensieve in which he had again stored some of his 
thoughts before starting the lesson, almost as though 
checking that they were still there. “I don’t remember 
telling you to use a Shield Charm . . . but there is no 
doubt that it was effective...” 

Harry did not speak; he felt that to say anything 
might be dangerous. He was sure he had just broken 
into Snape’s memories, that he had just seen scenes 
from Snape’s childhood, and it was unnerving to 
think that the crying little boy who had watched his 
parents shouting was actually standing in front of 
him with such loathing in his eyes... 

“Let’s try again, shall we?” said Snape. 

Harry felt a thrill of dread: He was about to pay for 
what had just happened, he was sure of it. They 
moved back into position with the desk between 
them, Harry feeling he was going to find it much 
harder to empty his mind this time... 

“On the count of three, then,” said Snape, raising his 
wand once more. “One — two — ” 

Harry did not have time to gather himself together 
and attempt to clear his mind, for Snape had already 
cried “ Legilimens\” 

He was hurtling along the corridor toward the 
Department of Mysteries, past the blank stone walls, 

Page | 755Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




past the torches — the plain black door was growing 
ever larger; he was moving so fast he was going to 
collide with it, he was feet from it and he could see 
that chink of faint blue light again — 

The door had flown open! He was through it at last, 
inside a black-walled, black-floored circular room lit 
with blue-flamed candles, and there were more doors 
all around him — he needed to go on — but which 
door ought he to take — ? 

“POTTER!” 

Harry opened his eyes. He was flat on his back again 
with no memory of having gotten there; he was also 
panting as though he really had run the length of the 
Department of Mysteries corridor, really had sprinted 
through the black door and found the circular room... 

“Explain yourself!” said Snape, who was standing over 
him, looking furious. 

“I ... dunno what happened,” said Harry truthfully, 
standing up. There was a lump on the back of his 
head from where he had hit the ground and he felt 
feverish. “I’ve never seen that before. I mean, I told 
you, I’ve dreamed about the door ... but it’s never 
opened before...” 

“You are not working hard enough!” 

For some reason, Snape seemed even angrier than he 
had done two minutes before, when Harry had seen 
into his own memories. 

“You are lazy and sloppy, Potter, it is small wonder 
that the Dark Lord — ” 



Page | 756Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Can you tell me something, sir?” said Harry, firing up 
again. “Why do you call Voldemort the Dark Lord, I’ve 
only ever heard Death Eaters call him that — ” 

Snape opened his mouth in a snarl — and a woman 
screamed from somewhere outside the room. 

Snape’s head jerked upward; he was gazing at the 
ceiling. 

“What the — ?” he muttered. 

Harry could hear a muffled commotion coming from 
what he thought might be the entrance hall. Snape 
looked around at him, frowning. 

“Did you see anything unusual on your way down 
here, Potter?” 

Harry shook his head. Somewhere above them, the 
woman screamed again. Snape strode to his office 
door, his wand still held at the ready, and swept out 
of sight. Harry hesitated for a moment, then followed. 

The screams were indeed coming from the entrance 
hall; they grew louder as Harry ran toward the stone 
steps leading up from the dungeons. When he 
reached the top he found the entrance hall packed. 
Students had come flooding out of the Great Hall, 
where dinner was still in progress, to see what was 
going on. Others had crammed themselves onto the 
marble staircase. Harry pushed forward through a 
knot of tall Slytherins and saw that the onlookers had 
formed a great ring, some of them looking shocked, 
others even frightened. Professor McGonagall was 
directly opposite Harry on the other side of the hall; 
she looked as though what she was watching made 
her feel faintly sick. 



Page | 757Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Trelawney was standing in the middle of the 
entrance hall with her wand in one hand and an 
empty sherry bottle in the other, looking utterly mad. 
Her hair was sticking up on end, her glasses were 
lopsided so that one eye was magnified more than the 
other; her innumerable shawls and scarves were 
trailing haphazardly from her shoulders, giving the 
impression that she was falling apart at the seams. 
Two large trunks lay on the floor beside her, one of 
them upside down; it looked very much as though it 
had been thrown down the stairs after her. Professor 
Trelawney was staring, apparently terrified, at 
something Harry could not see but that seemed to be 
standing at the foot of the stairs. 

“No!” she shrieked. “NO! This cannot be happening... 

It cannot ... I refuse to accept it!” 

“You didn’t realize this was coming?” said a high 
girlish voice, sounding callously amused, and Harry, 
moving slightly to his right, saw that Trelawney’s 
terrifying vision was nothing other than Professor 
Umbridge. “Incapable though you are of predicting 
even tomorrow’s weather, you must surely have 
realized that your pitiful performance during my 
inspections, and lack of any improvement, would 
make it inevitable you would be sacked?” 

“You c-can’t!” howled Professor Trelawney, tears 
streaming down her face from behind her enormous 
lenses, “you c-can’t sack me! I’ve b-been here sixteen 
years! H-Hogwarts is m-my h-home!” 

“It was your home,” said Professor Umbridge, and 
Harry was revolted to see the enjoyment stretching 
her toadlike face as she watched Professor Trelawney 
sink, sobbing uncontrollably, onto one of her trunks, 
“until an hour ago, when the Minister of Magic 
countersigned the order for your dismissal. Now 
Page | 758Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




kindly remove yourself from this hall. You are 
embarrassing us.” 

But she stood and watched, with an expression of 
gloating enjoyment, as Professor Trelawney 
shuddered and moaned, rocking backward and 
forward on her trunk in paroxysms of grief. Harry 
heard a sob to his left and looked around. Lavender 
and Parvati were both crying silently, their arms 
around each other. Then he heard footsteps. 

Professor McGonagall had broken away from the 
spectators, marched straight up to Professor 
Trelawney and was patting her firmly on the back 
while withdrawing a large handkerchief from within 
her robes. 

“There, there, Sibyll ... Calm down... Blow your nose 
on this... It’s not as bad as you think, now... You are 
not going to have to leave Hogwarts...” 

“Oh really, Professor McGonagall?” said Umbridge in 
a deadly voice, taking a few steps forward. “And your 
authority for that statement is . . . ?” 

“That would be mine,” said a deep voice. 

The oak front doors had swung open. Students beside 
them scuttled out of the way as Dumbledore appeared 
in the entrance. What he had been doing out in the 
grounds Harry could not imagine, but there was 
something impressive about the sight of him framed 
in the doorway against an oddly misty night. Leaving 
the doors wide behind him, he strode forward through 
the circle of onlookers toward the place where 
Professor Trelawney sat, tearstained and trembling, 
upon her trunk, Professor McGonagall alongside her. 

“Yours, Professor Dumbledore?” said Umbridge with a 
singularly unpleasant little laugh. “I’m afraid you do 

Page | 759Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




not understand the position. I have here” — she 
pulled a parchment scroll from within her robes — 

“an Order of Dismissal signed by myself and the 
Minister of Magic. Under the terms of Educational 
Decree Number Twenty-three, the High Inquisitor of 
Hogwarts has the power to inspect, place upon 
probation, and sack any teacher she — that is to say, 

I — feel is not performing up to the standard required 
by the Ministry of Magic. I have decided that Professor 
Trelawney is not up to scratch. I have dismissed her.” 

To Harry’s very great surprise, Dumbledore continued 
to smile. He looked down at Professor Trelawney, who 
was still sobbing and choking on her trunk, and said, 
“You are quite right, of course, Professor Umbridge. 

As High Inquisitor you have every right to dismiss my 
teachers. You do not, however, have the authority to 
send them away from the castle. I am afraid,” he went 
on, with a courteous little bow, “that the power to do 
that still resides with the headmaster, and it is my 
wish that Professor Trelawney continue to live at 
Hogwarts.” 

At this, Professor Trelawney gave a wild little laugh in 
which a hiccup was barely hidden. 

“No — no, I’ll g-go, Dumbledore! I sh-shall 1-leave 
Hogwarts and s-seek my fortune elsewhere — ” 

“No,” said Dumbledore sharply. “It is my wish that 
you remain, Sibyll.” 

He turned to Professor McGonagall. 

“Might I ask you to escort Sibyll back upstairs, 
Professor McGonagall?” 

“Of course,” said McGonagall. “Up you get, Sibyll...” 



Page | 760Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Sprout came hurrying forward out of the 
crowd and grabbed Professor Trelawney’s other arm. 
Together they guided her past Umbridge and up the 
marble stairs. Professor Flitwick went scurrying after 
them, his wand held out before him; he squeaked, 
“Locomotor trunksl” and Professor Trelawney’s luggage 
rose into the air and proceeded up the staircase after 
her, Professor Flitwick bringing up the rear. 

Professor Umbridge was standing stock-still, staring 
at Dumbledore, who continued to smile benignly. 

“And what,” she said in a whisper that nevertheless 
carried all around the entrance hall, “are you going to 
do with her once I appoint a new Divination teacher 
who needs her lodgings?” 

“Oh, that won’t be a problem,” said Dumbledore 
pleasantly. “You see, I have already found us a new 
Divination teacher, and he will prefer lodgings on the 
ground floor.” 

“You’ve found — ?” said Umbridge shrilly. “You’ve 
found? Might I remind you, Dumbledore, that under 
Educational Decree Twenty-two — ” 

“ — the Ministry has the right to appoint a suitable 
candidate if — and only if — the headmaster is 
unable to find one,” said Dumbledore. “And I am 
happy to say that on this occasion I have succeeded. 
May I introduce you?” 

He turned to face the open front doors, through which 
night mist was now drifting. Harry heard hooves. 
There was a shocked murmur around the hall and 
those nearest the doors hastily moved even farther 
backward, some of them tripping over in their haste 
to clear a path for the newcomer. 



Page | 761Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 


