
the Dark Mark . . . and then — did you hear about that 
Ministry of Magic witch who’s gone missing?” 

“Bertha Jorkins?” said Harry. 

“Exactly ... she disappeared in Albania, and that’s 
definitely where Voldemort was rumored to be last ... 
and she would have known the Triwizard Tournament 
was coming up, wouldn’t she?” 

“Yeah, but ... it’s not very likely she’d have walked 
straight into Voldemort, is it?” said Harry. 

“Listen, I knew Bertha Jorkins,” said Sirius grimly. 
“She was at Hogwarts when I was, a few years above 
your dad and me. And she was an idiot. Very nosy, 
but no brains, none at all. It’s not a good 
combination, Harry. I’d say she’d be very easy to lure 
into a trap. 

“So ... so Voldemort could have found out about the 
tournament?” said Harry. “Is that what you mean? 
You think Karkaroff might be here on his orders?” 

“I don’t know,” said Sirius slowly, “I just don’t know 
... Karkaroff doesn’t strike me as the type who’d go 
back to Voldemort unless he knew Voldemort was 
powerful enough to protect him. But whoever put 
your name in that goblet did it for a reason, and I 
can’t help thinking the tournament would be a very 
good way to attack you and make it look like an 
accident.” 

“Looks like a really good plan from where I’m 
standing,” said Harry grinning bleakly. “They’ll just 
have to stand back and let the dragons do their stuff.” 

“Right — these dragons,” said Sirius, speaking very 
quickly now. “There’s a way, Harry. Don’t be tempted 

Page | 369 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




to try a Stunning Spell — dragons are strong and too 
powerfully magical to be knocked out by a single 
Stunner, you need about half a dozen wizards at a 
time to overcome a dragon — ” 

“Yeah, I know, I just saw,” said Harry. 

“But you can do it alone,” said Sirius. “There is a way, 
and a simple spell’s all you need. Just — ” 

But Harry held up a hand to silence him, his heart 
suddenly pounding as though it would burst. He 
could hear footsteps coming down the spiral staircase 
behind him. 

“Go!” he hissed at Sirius. “Go! There’s someone 
coming!” 

Harry scrambled to his feet, hiding the fire — if 
someone saw Sirius’s face within the walls of 
Hogwarts, they would raise an almighty uproar — the 
Ministry would get dragged in — he, Harry, would be 
questioned about Sirius’s whereabouts — 

Harry heard a tiny pop\ in the fire behind him and 
knew Sirius had gone. He watched the bottom of the 
spiral staircase. Who had decided to go for a stroll at 
one o’clock in the morning, and stopped Sirius from 
telling him how to get past a dragon? 

It was Ron. Dressed in his maroon paisley pajamas, 
Ron stopped dead facing Harry across the room, and 
looked around. 

“Who were you talking to?” he said. 

“What’s that got to do with you?” Harry snarled. 

“What are you doing down here at this time of night?” 



Page | 370 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I just wondered where you — ” Ron broke off, 
shrugging. “Nothing. I’m going back to bed.” 

“Just thought you’d come nosing around, did you?” 
Harry shouted. He knew that Ron had no idea what 
he’d walked in on, knew he hadn’t done it on purpose, 
but he didn’t care — at this moment he hated 
everything about Ron, right down to the several 
inches of bare ankle showing beneath his pajama 
trousers. 

“Sorry about that,” said Ron, his face reddening with 
anger. “Should’ve realized you didn’t want to be 
disturbed. I’ll let you get on with practicing for your 
next interview in peace.” 

Harry seized one of the POTTER REALLY STINKS 
badges off the table and chucked it, as hard as he 
could, across the room. It hit Ron on the forehead 
and bounced off. 

“There you go,” Harry said. “Something for you to 
wear on Tuesday. You might even have a scar now, if 
you’re lucky. ... That’s what you want, isn’t it?” 

He strode across the room toward the stairs; he half 
expected Ron to stop him, he would even have liked 
Ron to throw a punch at him, but Ron just stood 
there in his too-small pajamas, and Harry, having 
stormed upstairs, lay awake in bed fuming for a long 
time afterward and didn’t hear him come up to bed. 



Page | 371 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE FIRST TASK 

Harry got up on Sunday morning and dressed so 
inattentively that it was a while before he realized he 
was trying to pull his hat onto his foot instead of his 
sock. When he’d finally got all his clothes on the right 
parts of his body, he hurried off to find Hermione, 
locating her at the Gryffindor table in the Great Hall, 
where she was eating breakfast with Ginny. Feeling 
too queasy to eat, Harry waited until Hermione had 
swallowed her last spoonful of porridge, then dragged 
her out onto the grounds. There, he told her all about 
the dragons, and about everything Sirius had said, 
while they took another long walk around the lake. 

Alarmed as she was by Sirius’s warnings about 
Karkaroff, Hermione still thought that the dragons 
were the more pressing problem. 

“Let’s just try and keep you alive until Tuesday 
evening,” she said desperately, “and then we can 
worry about Karkaroff.” 



Page | 372 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



They walked three times around the lake, trying all 
the way to think of a simple spell that would subdue 
a dragon. Nothing whatsoever occurred to them, so 
they retired to the library instead. Here, Harry pulled 
down every book he could find on dragons, and both 
of them set to work searching through the large pile. 

“ ‘Talon-clipping by charms ... treating scale-rot ...’ 

This is no good, this is for nutters like Hagrid who 
want to keep them healthy. ...” 

“ ‘Dragons are extremely difficult to slay, owing to the 
ancient magic that imbues their thick hides, which 
none but the most powerful spells can penetrate ...’ 

But Sirius said a simple one would do it. ...” 

“Let’s try some simple spellbooks, then,” said Harry, 
throwing aside Men Who Love Dragons Too Much. 

He returned to the table with a pile of spellbooks, set 
them down, and began to flick through each in turn, 
Hermione whispering nonstop at his elbow. 

“Well, there are Switching Spells ... but what’s the 
point of Switching it? Unless you swapped its fangs 
for wine-gums or something that would make it less 
dangerous. ... The trouble is, like that book said, not 
much is going to get through a dragon’s hide. ... I’d 
say Transfigure it, but something that big, you really 
haven’t got a hope, I doubt even Professor McGonagall 
... unless you’re supposed to put the spell on 
yourself? Maybe to give yourself extra powers? But 
they’re not simple spells, I mean, we haven’t done any 
of those in class, I only know about them because I’ve 
been doing O.W.L. practice papers. ...” 

“Hermione,” Harry said, through gritted teeth, “will 
you shut up for a bit, please? I’m trying to 
concentrate.” 

Page | 373 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But all that happened, when Hermione fell silent, was 
that Harry’s brain filled with a sort of blank buzzing, 
which didn’t seem to allow room for concentration. He 
stared hopelessly down the index of Basic Hexes for 
the Busy and Vexed. Instant scalping . . . but dragons 
had no hair . . . pepper breath . . . that would probably 
increase a dragon’s firepower ... horn tongue ... just 
what he needed, to give it an extra weapon . . . 

“Oh no, he’s back again, why can’t he read on his 
stupid ship?” said Hermione irritably as Viktor Krum 
slouched in, cast a surly look over at the pair of them, 
and settled himself in a distant corner with a pile of 
books. “Come on, Harry, we’ll go back to the common 
room ... his fan club’ll be here in a moment, twittering 
away. ...” 

And sure enough, as they left the library, a gang of 
girls tiptoed past them, one of them wearing a 
Bulgaria scarf tied around her waist. 

Harry barely slept that night. When he awoke on 
Monday morning, he seriously considered for the first 
time ever just running away from Hogwarts. But as 
he looked around the Great Hall at breakfast time, 
and thought about what leaving the castle would 
mean, he knew he couldn’t do it. It was the only place 
he had ever been happy . . . well, he supposed he must 
have been happy with his parents too, but he couldn’t 
remember that. 

Somehow, the knowledge that he would rather be 
here and facing a dragon than back on Privet Drive 
with Dudley was good to know; it made him feel 
slightly calmer. He finished his bacon with difficulty 
(his throat wasn’t working too well), and as he and 
Hermione got up, he saw Cedric Diggory leaving the 
Hufflepuff table. 



Page | 374 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Cedric still didn’t know about the dragons ... the only 
champion who didn’t, if Harry was right in thinking 
that Maxime and Karkaroff would have told Fleur and 
Krum. ... 

“Hermione, I’ll see you in the greenhouses,” Harry 
said, coming to his decision as he watched Cedric 
leaving the Hall. “Go on, I’ll catch you up.” 

“Harry, you’ll be late, the bell’s about to ring — ” 

“I’ll catch you up, okay?” 

By the time Harry reached the bottom of the marble 
staircase, Cedric was at the top. He was with a load of 
sixth-year friends. Harry didn’t want to talk to Cedric 
in front of them; they were among those who had 
been quoting Rita Skeeter’s article at him every time 
he went near them. He followed Cedric at a distance 
and saw that he was heading toward the Charms 
corridor. This gave Harry an idea. Pausing at a 
distance from them, he pulled out his wand, and took 
careful aim. 

“Diffindol” 

Cedric’s bag split. Parchment, quills, and books 
spilled out of it onto the floor. Several bottles of ink 
smashed. 

“Don’t bother,” said Cedric in an exasperated voice as 
his friends bent down to help him. “Tell Flitwick I’m 
coming, go on. ...” 

This was exactly what Harry had been hoping for. He 
slipped his wand back into his robes, waited until 
Cedric’s friends had disappeared into their classroom, 
and hurried up the corridor, which was now empty of 
everyone but himself and Cedric. 

Page | 375 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Hi,” said Cedric, picking up a copy of A Guide to 
Advanced Transfiguration that was now splattered 
with ink. “My bag just split ... brand-new and all ...” 

“Cedric,” said Harry, “the first task is dragons.” 

“What?” said Cedric, looking up. 

“Dragons,” said Harry, speaking quickly, in case 
Professor Flitwick came out to see where Cedric had 
got to. “They’ve got four, one for each of us, and we’ve 
got to get past them.” 

Cedric stared at him. Harry saw some of the panic 
he’d been feeling since Saturday night flickering in 
Cedric’s gray eyes. 

“Are you sure?” Cedric said in a hushed voice. 

“Dead sure,” said Harry. “I’ve seen them.” 

“But how did you find out? We’re not supposed to 
know. ...” 

“Never mind,” said Harry quickly — he knew Hagrid 
would be in trouble if he told the truth. “But I’m not 
the only one who knows. Fleur and Krum will know 
by now — Maxime and Karkaroff both saw the 
dragons too.” 

Cedric straightened up, his arms full of inky quills, 
parchment, and books, his ripped bag dangling off 
one shoulder. He stared at Harry, and there was a 
puzzled, almost suspicious look in his eyes. 

“Why are you telling me?” he asked. 

Harry looked at him in disbelief. He was sure Cedric 
wouldn’t have asked that if he had seen the dragons 

Page | 376 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




himself. Harry wouldn’t have let his worst enemy face 
those monsters unprepared — well, perhaps Malfoy or 
Snape ... 

“It’s just ... fair, isn’t it?” he said to Cedric. “We all 
know now ... we’re on an even footing, aren’t we?” 

Cedric was still looking at him in a slightly suspicious 
way when Harry heard a familiar clunking noise 
behind him. He turned around and saw Mad-Eye 
Moody emerging from a nearby classroom. 

“Come with me, Potter,” he growled. “Diggory, off you 
go.” 

Harry stared apprehensively at Moody. Had he 
overheard them? 

“Er — Professor, I’m supposed to be in Herbology — ” 

“Never mind that, Potter. In my office, please. ...” 

Harry followed him, wondering what was going to 
happen to him now. What if Moody wanted to know 
how he’d found out about the dragons? Would Moody 
go to Dumbledore and tell on Hagrid, or just turn 
Harry into a ferret? Well, it might be easier to get past 
a dragon if he were a ferret, Harry thought dully, he’d 
be smaller, much less easy to see from a height of fifty 
feet ... 

He followed Moody into his office. Moody closed the 
door behind them and turned to look at Harry, his 
magical eye fixed upon him as well as the normal one. 

“That was a very decent thing you just did, Potter,” 
Moody said quietly. 



Page | 377 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry didn’t know what to say; this wasn’t the 
reaction he had expected at all. 



“Sit down,” said Moody, and Harry sat, looking 
around. 

He had visited this office under two of its previous 
occupants. In Professor Lockhart’s day, the walls had 
been plastered with beaming, winking pictures of 
Professor Lockhart himself. When Lupin had lived 
here, you were more likely to come across a specimen 
of some fascinating new Dark creature he had 
procured for them to study in class. Now, however, 
the office was full of a number of exceptionally odd 
objects that Harry supposed Moody had used in the 
days when he had been an Auror. 

On his desk stood what looked like a large, cracked, 
glass spinning top; Harry recognized it at once as a 
Sneakoscope, because he owned one himself, though 
it was much smaller than Moody’s. In the corner on a 
small table stood an object that looked something like 
an extra- squiggly, golden television aerial. It was 
humming slightly. What appeared to be a mirror hung 
opposite Harry on the wall, but it was not reflecting 
the room. Shadowy figures were moving around 
inside it, none of them clearly in focus. 

“Like my Dark Detectors, do you?” said Moody, who 
was watching Harry closely. 

“What’s that?” Harry asked, pointing at the squiggly 
golden aerial. 

“Secrecy Sensor. Vibrates when it detects 
concealment and lies ... no use here, of course, too 
much interference — students in every direction lying 
about why they haven’t done their homework. Been 
humming ever since I got here. I had to disable my 
Page | 378 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Sneakoscope because it wouldn’t stop whistling. It’s 
extra-sensitive, picks up stuff about a mile around. Of 
course, it could be picking up more than kid stuff,” he 
added in a growl. 

“And what’s the mirror for?” 

“Oh that’s my Foe-Glass. See them out there, 
skulking around? I’m not really in trouble until I see 
the whites of their eyes. That’s when I open my 
trunk.” 

He let out a short, harsh laugh, and pointed to the 
large trunk under the window. It had seven keyholes 
in a row. Harry wondered what was in there, until 
Moody’s next question brought him sharply back to 
earth. 

“So ... found out about the dragons, have you?” 

Harry hesitated. He’d been afraid of this — but he 
hadn’t told Cedric, and he certainly wasn’t going to 
tell Moody, that Hagrid had broken the rules. 

“It’s all right,” said Moody, sitting down and 
stretching out his wooden leg with a groan. 

“Cheating’s a traditional part of the Tri-wizard 
Tournament and always has been.” 

“I didn’t cheat,” said Harry sharply. “It was — a sort 
of accident that I found out.” 

Moody grinned. “I wasn’t accusing you, laddie. I’ve 
been telling Dumbledore from the start, he can be as 
high-minded as he likes, but you can bet old 
Karkaroff and Maxime won’t be. They’ll have told their 
champions everything they can. They want to win. 
They want to beat Dumbledore. They’d like to prove 
he’s only human.” 

Page | 379 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Moody gave another harsh laugh, and his magical eye 
swiveled around so fast it made Harry feel queasy to 
watch it. 

“So ... got any ideas how you’re going to get past your 
dragon yet?” said Moody. 

“No,” said Harry. 

“Well, I’m not going to tell you,” said Moody gruffly. “I 
don’t show favoritism, me. I’m just going to give you 
some good, general advice. And the first bit is — play 
to your strengths.” 

“I haven’t got any,” said Harry, before he could stop 
himself. 

“Excuse me,” growled Moody, “you’ve got strengths if I 
say you’ve got them. Think now. What are you best 
at?” 

Harry tried to concentrate. What was he best at? 

Well, that was easy, really — 

“Quidditch,” he said dully, “and a fat lot of help — ” 

“That’s right,” said Moody, staring at him very hard, 
his magical eye barely moving at all. “You’re a damn 
good flier from what I’ve heard.” 

“Yeah, but ...” Harry stared at him. “I’m not allowed a 
broom, I’ve only got my wand — ” 

“My second piece of general advice,” said Moody 
loudly, interrupting him, “is to use a nice, simple 
spell that will enable you to get what you need.” 

Harry looked at him blankly. What did he need? 



Page | 380 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on, boy ...” whispered Moody. “Put them 
together ... it’s not that difficult. ...” 

And it clicked. He was best at flying. He needed to 
pass the dragon in the air. For that, he needed his 
Firebolt. And for his Firebolt, he needed — 

“Hermione,” Harry whispered, when he had sped into 
greenhouse three minutes later, uttering a hurried 
apology to Professor Sprout as he passed her. 
“Hermione — I need you to help me.” 

“What d’you think I’ve been trying to do, Harry?” she 
whispered back, her eyes round with anxiety over the 
top of the quivering Flutterby Bush she was pruning. 

“Hermione, I need to learn how to do a Summoning 
Charm properly by tomorrow afternoon.” 

And so they practiced. They didn’t have lunch, but 
headed for a free classroom, where Harry tried with 
all his might to make various objects fly across the 
room toward him. He was still having problems. The 
books and quills kept losing heart halfway across the 
room and dropping like stones to the floor. 

“Concentrate, Harry, concentrate. ...” 

“What d’you think I’m trying to do?” said Harry 
angrily. “A great big dragon keeps popping up in my 
head for some reason. ... Okay, try again. ...” 

He wanted to skip Divination to keep practicing, but 
Hermione refused point-blank to skive off 
Arithmancy, and there was no point in staying 
without her. He therefore had to endure over an hour 
of Professor Trelawney, who spent half the lesson 
telling everyone that the position of Mars with relation 



Page | 381 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




to Saturn at that moment meant that people born in 
July were in great danger of sudden, violent deaths. 

“Well, that’s good,” said Harry loudly, his temper 
getting the better of him, “just as long as it’s not 
drawn-out. I don’t want to suffer.” 

Ron looked for a moment as though he was going to 
laugh; he certainly caught Harry’s eye for the first 
time in days, but Harry was still feeling too resentful 
toward Ron to care. He spent the rest of the lesson 
trying to attract small objects toward him under the 
table with his wand. He managed to make a fly zoom 
straight into his hand, though he wasn’t entirely sure 
that was his prowess at Summoning Charms — 
perhaps the fly was just stupid. 

He forced down some dinner after Divination, then 
returned to the empty classroom with Hermione, 
using the Invisibility Cloak to avoid the teachers. 

They kept practicing until past midnight. They would 
have stayed longer, but Peeves turned up and, 
pretending to think that Harry wanted things thrown 
at him, started chucking chairs across the room. 
Harry and Hermione left in a hurry before the noise 
attracted Filch, and went back to the Gryffindor 
common room, which was now mercifully empty. 

At two o’clock in the morning, Harry stood near the 
fireplace, surrounded by heaps of objects: books, 
quills, several upturned chairs, an old set of 
Gobstones, and Neville’s toad, Trevor. Only in the last 
hour had Harry really got the hang of the Summoning 
Charm. 

“That’s better, Harry, that’s loads better,” Hermione 
said, looking exhausted but very pleased. 



Page | 382 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, now we know what to do next time I can’t 
manage a spell,” Harry said, throwing a rune 
dictionary back to Hermione, so he could try again, 
“threaten me with a dragon. Right ...” He raised his 
wand once more. “Accio Dictionary !” 

The heavy book soared out of Hermione ’s hand, flew 
across the room, and Harry caught it. 

“Harry, I really think you’ve got it!” said Hermione 
delightedly. 

“Just as long as it works tomorrow,” Harry said. “The 
Firebolt’s going to be much farther away than the 
stuff in here, it’s going to be in the castle, and I’m 
going to be out there on the grounds. ...” 

“That doesn’t matter,” said Hermione firmly “Just as 
long as you’re concentrating really, really hard on it, 
it’ll come. Harry, we’d better get some sleep ... you’re 
going to need it.” 

Harry had been focusing so hard on learning the 
Summoning Charm that evening that some of his 
blind panic had left him. It returned in full measure, 
however, on the following morning. The atmosphere 
in the school was one of great tension and excitement. 
Lessons were to stop at midday, giving all the 
students time to get down to the dragons’ enclosure 
— though of course, they didn’t yet know what they 
would find there. 

Harry felt oddly separate from everyone around him, 
whether they were wishing him good luck or hissing 
“ We’ll have a box of tissues ready, Potted as he 
passed. It was a state of nervousness so advanced 
that he wondered whether he mightn’t just lose his 
head when they tried to lead him out to his dragon, 
and start trying to curse everyone in sight. Time was 
Page | 383 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




behaving in a more peculiar fashion than ever, 
rushing past in great dollops, so that one moment he 
seemed to be sitting down in his first lesson, History 
of Magic, and the next, walking into lunch . . . and 
then (where had the morning gone? the last of the 
dragon-free hours?), Professor McGonagall was 
hurrying over to him in the Great Hall. Lots of people 
were watching. 

“Potter, the champions have to come down onto the 
grounds now. ... You have to get ready for your first 
task.” 

“Okay,” said Harry, standing up, his fork falling onto 
his plate with a clatter. 

“Good luck, Harry,” Hermione whispered. “You’ll be 
fine!” 

“Yeah,” said Harry in a voice that was most unlike his 
own. 

He left the Great Hall with Professor McGonagall. She 
didn’t seem herself either; in fact, she looked nearly 
as anxious as Hermione. As she walked him down the 
stone steps and out into the cold November afternoon, 
she put her hand on his shoulder. 

“Now, don’t panic,” she said, “just keep a cool head. 

... We’ve got wizards standing by to control the 
situation if it gets out of hand. ... The main thing is 
just to do your best, and nobody will think any the 
worse of you. ... Are you all right?” 

“Yes,” Harry heard himself say. “Yes, I’m fine.” 

She was leading him toward the place where the 
dragons were, around the edge of the forest, but when 
they approached the clump of trees behind which the 

Page | 384 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




enclosure would be clearly visible, Harry saw that a 
tent had been erected, its entrance facing them, 
screening the dragons from view. 

“You’re to go in here with the other champions,” said 
Professor McGonagall, in a rather shaky sort of voice, 
“and wait for your turn, Potter. Mr. Bagman is in 
there ... he’ll be telling you the — the procedure. ... 
Good luck.” 

“Thanks,” said Harry, in a flat, distant voice. She left 
him at the entrance of the tent. Harry went inside. 

Fleur Delacour was sitting in a corner on a low 
wooden stool. She didn’t look nearly as composed as 
usual, but rather pale and clammy. Viktor Krum 
looked even surlier than usual, which Harry 
supposed was his way of showing nerves. Cedric was 
pacing up and down. When Harry entered, Cedric 
gave him a small smile, which Harry returned, feeling 
the muscles in his face working rather hard, as 
though they had forgotten how to do it. 

“Harry! Good-o!” said Bagman happily, looking 
around at him. “Come in, come in, make yourself at 
home!” 

Bagman looked somehow like a slightly overblown 
cartoon figure, standing amid all the pale-faced 
champions. He was wearing his old Wasp robes again. 

“Well, now we’re all here — time to fill you in!” said 
Bagman brightly. “When the audience has assembled, 
I’m going to be offering each of you this bag” — he 
held up a small sack of purple silk and shook it at 
them — “from which you will each select a small 
model of the thing you are about to face! There are 
different — er — varieties, you see. And I have to tell 



Page | 385 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




you something else too . . . ah, yes . . . your task is to 
collect the golden egg\” 

Harry glanced around. Cedric had nodded once, to 
show that he understood Bagman’s words, and then 
started pacing around the tent again; he looked 
slightly green. Fleur Delacour and Krum hadn’t 
reacted at all. Perhaps they thought they might be 
sick if they opened their mouths; that was certainly 
how Harry felt. But they, at least, had volunteered for 
this. ... 

And in no time at all, hundreds upon hundreds of 
pairs of feet could be heard passing the tent, their 
owners talking excitedly, laughing, joking. ... Harry 
felt as separate from the crowd as though they were a 
different species. And then — it seemed like about a 
second later to Harry — Bagman was opening the 
neck of the purple silk sack. 

“Ladies first,” he said, offering it to Fleur Delacour. 

She put a shaking hand inside the bag and drew out 
a tiny, perfect model of a dragon — a Welsh Green. It 
had the number two around its neck. And Harry 
knew, by the fact that Fleur showed no sign of 
surprise, but rather a determined resignation, that he 
had been right: Madame Maxime had told her what 
was coming. 

The same held true for Krum. He pulled out the 
scarlet Chinese Fireball. It had a number three 
around its neck. He didn’t even blink, just sat back 
down and stared at the ground. 

Cedric put his hand into the bag, and out came the 
blueish-gray Swedish Short-Snout, the number one 
tied around its neck. Knowing what was left, Harry 
put his hand into the silk bag and pulled out the 

Page | 386 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hungarian Horntail, and the number four. It 
stretched its wings as he looked down at it, and bared 
its minuscule fangs. 

“Well, there you are!” said Bagman. “You have each 
pulled out the dragon you will face, and the numbers 
refer to the order in which you are to take on the 
dragons, do you see? Now, I’m going to have to leave 
you in a moment, because I’m commentating. Mr. 
Diggory, you’re first, just go out into the enclosure 
when you hear a whistle, all right? Now ... Harry ... 
could I have a quick word? Outside?” 

“Er ... yes,” said Harry blankly, and he got up and 
went out of the tent with Bagman, who walked him a 
short distance away, into the trees, and then turned 
to him with a fatherly expression on his face. 

“Feeling all right, Harry? Anything I can get you?” 

“What?” said Harry. “I — no, nothing.” 

“Got a plan?” said Bagman, lowering his voice 
conspiratorially. “Because I don’t mind sharing a few 
pointers, if you’d like them, you know. I mean,” 
Bagman continued, lowering his voice still further, 
“you’re the underdog here, Harry. ... Anything I can 
do to help ...” 

“No,” said Harry so quickly he knew he had sounded 
rude, “no — I — I know what I’m going to do, thanks.” 

“Nobody would know, Harry,” said Bagman, winking 
at him. 

“No, I’m fine,” said Harry, wondering why he kept 
telling people this, and wondering whether he had 
ever been less fine. “I’ve got a plan worked out, I — ” 



Page | 387 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




A whistle had blown somewhere. 



“Good lord, I’ve got to run!” said Bagman in alarm, 
and he hurried off. 

Harry walked back to the tent and saw Cedric 
emerging from it, greener than ever. Harry tried to 
wish him luck as he walked past, but all that came 
out of his mouth was a sort of hoarse grunt. 

Harry went back inside to Fleur and Krum. Seconds 
later, they heard the roar of the crowd, which meant 
Cedric had entered the enclosure and was now face- 
to-face with the living counterpart of his model. ... 

It was worse than Harry could ever have imagined, 
sitting there and listening. The crowd screamed . . . 
yelled . . . gasped like a single many-headed entity, as 
Cedric did whatever he was doing to get past the 
Swedish Short-Snout. Krum was still staring at the 
ground. Fleur had now taken to retracing Cedric’s 
steps, around and around the tent. And Bagman’s 
commentary made everything much, much worse. ... 
Horrible pictures formed in Harry’s mind as he heard: 
“Oooh, narrow miss there, very narrow” ... “He’s 
taking risks, this one!” ... “Clever move — pity it 
didn’t work!” 

And then, after about fifteen minutes, Harry heard 
the deafening roar that could mean only one thing: 
Cedric had gotten past his dragon and captured the 
golden egg. 

“Very good indeed!” Bagman was shouting. “And now 
the marks from the judges!” 

But he didn’t shout out the marks; Harry supposed 
the judges were holding them up and showing them 
to the crowd. 

Page | 388 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“One down, three to go!” Bagman yelled as the whistle 
blew again. “Miss Delacour, if you please!” 



Fleur was trembling from head to foot; Harry felt more 
warmly toward her than he had done so far as she left 
the tent with her head held high and her hand 
clutching her wand. He and Krum were left alone, at 
opposite sides of the tent, avoiding each other’s gaze. 

The same process started again. ... “Oh I’m not sure 
that was wise!” they could hear Bagman shouting 
gleefully. “Oh . . . nearly! Careful now . . . good lord, I 
thought she’d had it then!” 

Ten minutes later, Harry heard the crowd erupt into 
applause once more. ... Fleur must have been 
successful too. A pause, while Fleur’s marks were 
being shown . . . more clapping . . . then, for the third 
time, the whistle. 

“And here comes Mr. Krum!” cried Bagman, and 
Krum slouched out, leaving Harry quite alone. 

He felt much more aware of his body than usual; very 
aware of the way his heart was pumping fast, and his 
fingers tingling with fear ... yet at the same time, he 
seemed to be outside himself, seeing the walls of the 
tent, and hearing the crowd, as though from far away. 



“Very daring!” Bagman was yelling, and Harry heard 
the Chinese Fireball emit a horrible, roaring shriek, 
while the crowd drew its collective breath. “That’s 
some nerve he’s showing — and — yes, he’s got the 
egg!” 

Applause shattered the wintery air like breaking 
glass; Krum had finished — it would be Harry’s turn 
any moment. 

Page | 389 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He stood up, noticing dimly that his legs seemed to be 
made of marshmallow. He waited. And then he heard 
the whistle blow. He walked out through the entrance 
of the tent, the panic rising into a crescendo inside 
him. And now he was walking past the trees, through 
a gap in the enclosure fence. 

He saw everything in front of him as though it was a 
very highly colored dream. There were hundreds and 
hundreds of faces staring down at him from stands 
that had been magicked there since he’d last stood on 
this spot. And there was the Horntail, at the other 
end of the enclosure, crouched low over her clutch of 
eggs, her wings half-furled, her evil, yellow eyes upon 
him, a monstrous, scaly, black lizard, thrashing her 
spiked tail, leaving yard-long gouge marks in the hard 
