      kept carriages of their own, and never took cabs if by any means
      they could avoid it.

      The day was bright, the trees of the Park in the full beauty of
      mid-June foliage; the brothers did not seem to notice phenomena,
      which contributed, nevertheless, to the jauntiness of promenade
      and conversation.

      “Yes,” said Roger, “she’s a good-lookin’ woman, that wife of
      Soames’. I’m told they don’t get on.”

      This brother had a high forehead, and the freshest colour of any
      of the Forsytes; his light grey eyes measured the street frontage
      of the houses by the way, and now and then he would level his,
      umbrella and take a “lunar,” as he expressed it, of the varying
      heights.

      “She’d no money,” replied Nicholas.

      He himself had married a good deal of money, of which, it being
      then the golden age before the Married Women’s Property Act, he
      had mercifully been enabled to make a successful use.

      “What was her father?”

      “Heron was his name, a Professor, so they tell me.”

      Roger shook his head.

      “There’s no money in that,” he said.

      “They say her mother’s father was cement.”

      Roger’s face brightened.

      “But he went bankrupt,” went on Nicholas.

      “Ah!” exclaimed Roger, “Soames will have trouble with her; you
      mark my words, he’ll have trouble—she’s got a foreign look.”

      Nicholas licked his lips.

      “She’s a pretty woman,” and he waved aside a crossing-sweeper.

      “How did he get hold of her?” asked Roger presently. “She must
      cost him a pretty penny in dress!”

      “Ann tells me,” replied Nicholas, “he was half-cracked about her.
      She refused him five times. James, he’s nervous about it, I can
      see.”

      “Ah!” said Roger again; “I’m sorry for James; he had trouble with
      Dartie.” His pleasant colour was heightened by exercise, he swung
      his umbrella to the level of his eye more frequently than ever.
      Nicholas’s face also wore a pleasant look.

      “Too pale for me,” he said, “but her figures capital!”

      Roger made no reply.

      “I call her distinguished-looking,” he said at last—it was the
      highest praise in the Forsyte vocabulary. “That young Bosinney
      will never do any good for himself. They say at Burkitt’s he’s
      one of these artistic chaps—got an idea of improving English
      architecture; there’s no money in that! I should like to hear
      what Timothy would say to it.”

      They entered the station.

      “What class are you going? I go second.”

      “No second for me,” said Nicholas;—“you never know what you may
      catch.”

      He took a first-class ticket to Notting Hill Gate; Roger a second
      to South Kensington. The train coming in a minute later, the two
      brothers parted and entered their respective compartments. Each
      felt aggrieved that the other had not modified his habits to
      secure his society a little longer; but as Roger voiced it in his
      thoughts:

      “Always a stubborn beggar, Nick!”

      And as Nicholas expressed it to himself:

      “Cantankerous chap Roger—always was!”

      There was little sentimentality about the Forsytes. In that great
      London, which they had conquered and become merged in, what time
      had they to be sentimental?




      CHAPTER II OLD JOLYON GOES TO THE OPERA

      At five o’clock the following day old Jolyon sat alone, a cigar
      between his lips, and on a table by his side a cup of tea. He was
      tired, and before he had finished his cigar he fell asleep. A fly
      settled on his hair, his breathing sounded heavy in the drowsy
      silence, his upper lip under the white moustache puffed in and
      out. From between the fingers of his veined and wrinkled hand the
      cigar, dropping on the empty hearth, burned itself out.

      The gloomy little study, with windows of stained glass to exclude
      the view, was full of dark green velvet and heavily-carved
      mahogany—a suite of which old Jolyon was wont to say: “Shouldn’t
      wonder if it made a big price some day!”

      It was pleasant to think that in the after life he could get more
      for things than he had given.

      In the rich brown atmosphere peculiar to back rooms in the
      mansion of a Forsyte, the Rembrandtesque effect of his great
      head, with its white hair, against the cushion of his high-backed
      seat, was spoiled by the moustache, which imparted a somewhat
      military look to his face. An old clock that had been with him
      since before his marriage forty years ago kept with its ticking a
      jealous record of the seconds slipping away forever from its old
      master.

      He had never cared for this room, hardly going into it from one
      year’s end to another, except to take cigars from the Japanese
      cabinet in the corner, and the room now had its revenge.

      His temples, curving like thatches over the hollows beneath, his
      cheek-bones and chin, all were sharpened in his sleep, and there
      had come upon his face the confession that he was an old man.

      He woke. June had gone! James had said he would be lonely. James
      had always been a poor thing. He recollected with satisfaction
      that he had bought that house over James’s head.

      Serve him right for sticking at the price; the only thing the
      fellow thought of was money. Had he given too much, though? It
      wanted a lot of doing to—He dared say he would want all his money
      before he had done with this affair of Jun’s. He ought never to
      have allowed the engagement. She had met this Bosinney at the
      house of Baynes, Baynes and Bildeboy, the architects. He believed
      that Baynes, whom he knew—a bit of an old woman—was the young
      man’s uncle by marriage. After that she’d been always running
      after him; and when she took a thing into her head there was no
      stopping her. She was continually taking up with “lame ducks” of
      one sort or another. This fellow had no money, but she must needs
      become engaged to him—a harumscarum, unpractical chap, who would
      get himself into no end of difficulties.

      She had come to him one day in her slap-dash way and told him;
      and, as if it were any consolation, she had added:

      “He’s so splendid; he’s often lived on cocoa for a week!”

      “And he wants you to live on cocoa too?”

      “Oh no; he is getting into the swim now.”

      Old Jolyon had taken his cigar from under his white moustaches,
      stained by coffee at the edge, and looked at her, that little
      slip of a thing who had got such a grip of his heart. He knew
      more about “swims” than his granddaughter. But she, having
      clasped her hands on his knees, rubbed her chin against him,
      making a sound like a purring cat. And, knocking the ash off his
      cigar, he had exploded in nervous desperation:

      “You’re all alike: you won’t be satisfied till you’ve got what
      you want. If you must come to grief, you must; _I_ wash my hands
      of it.”

      So, he had washed his hands of it, making the condition that they
      should not marry until Bosinney had at least four hundred a year.

      “_I_ shan’t be able to give you very much,” he had said, a
      formula to which June was not unaccustomed. “Perhaps this
      What’s-his-name will provide the cocoa.”

      He had hardly seen anything of her since it began. A bad
      business! He had no notion of giving her a lot of money to enable
      a fellow he knew nothing about to live on in idleness. He had
      seen that sort of thing before; no good ever came of it. Worst of
      all, he had no hope of shaking her resolution; she was as
      obstinate as a mule, always had been from a child. He didn’t see
      where it was to end. They must cut their coat according to their
      cloth. He would not give way till he saw young Bosinney with an
      income of his own. That June would have trouble with the fellow
      was as plain as a pikestaff; he had no more idea of money than a
      cow. As to this rushing down to Wales to visit the young man’s
      aunts, he fully expected they were old cats.

      And, motionless, old Jolyon stared at the wall; but for his open
      eyes, he might have been asleep.... The idea of supposing that
      young cub Soames could give him advice! He had always been a cub,
      with his nose in the air! He would be setting up as a man of
      property next, with a place in the country! A man of property!
      H’mph! Like his father, he was always nosing out bargains, a
      cold-blooded young beggar!

      He rose, and, going to the cabinet, began methodically stocking
      his cigar-case from a bundle fresh in. They were not bad at the
      price, but you couldn’t get a good cigar, nowadays, nothing to
      hold a candle to those old Superfinos of Hanson and Bridger’s.
      _That_ was a cigar!

      The thought, like some stealing perfume, carried him back to
      those wonderful nights at Richmond when after dinner he sat
      smoking on the terrace of the Crown and Sceptre with Nicholas
      Treffry and Traquair and Jack Herring and Anthony Thornworthy.
      How good his cigars were then! Poor old Nick!—dead, and Jack
      Herring—dead, and Traquair—dead of that wife of his, and
      Thornworthy—awfully shaky (no wonder, with his appetite).

      Of all the company of those days he himself alone seemed left,
      except Swithin, of course, and he so outrageously big there was
      no doing anything with him.

      Difficult to believe it was so long ago; he felt young still! Of
      all his thoughts, as he stood there counting his cigars, this was
      the most poignant, the most bitter. With his white head and his
      loneliness he had remained young and green at heart. And those
      Sunday afternoons on Hampstead Heath, when young Jolyon and he
      went for a stretch along the Spaniard’s Road to Highgate, to
      Child’s Hill, and back over the Heath again to dine at Jack
      Straw’s Castle—how delicious his cigars were then! And such
      weather! There was no weather now.

      When June was a toddler of five, and every other Sunday he took
      her to the Zoo, away from the society of those two good women,
      her mother and her grandmother, and at the top of the bear den
      baited his umbrella with buns for her favourite bears, how sweet
      his cigars were then!

      Cigars! He had not even succeeded in out-living his palate—the
      famous palate that in the fifties men swore by, and speaking of
      him, said: “Forsyte’s the best palate in London!” The palate that
      in a sense had made his fortune—the fortune of the celebrated tea
      men, Forsyte and Treffry, whose tea, like no other man’s tea, had
      a romantic aroma, the charm of a quite singular genuineness.
      About the house of Forsyte and Treffry in the City had clung an
      air of enterprise and mystery, of special dealings in special
      ships, at special ports, with special Orientals.

      He had worked at that business! Men did work in those days! these
      young pups hardly knew the meaning of the word. He had gone into
      every detail, known everything that went on, sometimes sat up all
      night over it. And he had always chosen his agents himself,
      prided himself on it. His eye for men, he used to say, had been
      the secret of his success, and the exercise of this masterful
      power of selection had been the only part of it all that he had
      really liked. Not a career for a man of his ability. Even now,
      when the business had been turned into a Limited Liability
      Company, and was declining (he had got out of his shares long
      ago), he felt a sharp chagrin in thinking of that time. How much
      better he might have done! He would have succeeded splendidly at
      the Bar! He had even thought of standing for Parliament. How
      often had not Nicholas Treffry said to him:

      “You could do anything, Jo, if you weren’t so d-damned careful of
      yourself!” Dear old Nick! Such a good fellow, but a racketty
      chap! The notorious Treffry! _He_ had never taken any care of
      himself. So he was dead. Old Jolyon counted his cigars with a
      steady hand, and it came into his mind to wonder if perhaps he
      had been _too_ careful of himself.

      He put the cigar-case in the breast of his coat, buttoned it in,
      and walked up the long flights to his bedroom, leaning on one
      foot and the other, and helping himself by the bannister. The
      house was too big. After June was married, if she ever did marry
      this fellow, as he supposed she would, he would let it and go
      into rooms. What was the use of keeping half a dozen servants
      eating their heads off?

      The butler came to the ring of his bell—a large man with a beard,
      a soft tread, and a peculiar capacity for silence. Old Jolyon
      told him to put his dress clothes out; he was going to dine at
      the Club.

      How long had the carriage been back from taking Miss June to the
      station? Since two? Then let him come round at half-past six!

      The Club which old Jolyon entered on the stroke of seven was one
      of those political institutions of the upper middle class which
      have seen better days. In spite of being talked about, perhaps in
      consequence of being talked about, it betrayed a disappointing
      vitality. People had grown tired of saying that the “Disunion”
      was on its last legs. Old Jolyon would say it, too, yet
      disregarded the fact in a manner truly irritating to
      well-constituted Clubmen.

      “Why do you keep your name on?” Swithin often asked him with
      profound vexation. “Why don’t you join the ‘Polyglot’. You can’t
      get a wine like our Heidsieck under twenty shillin’ a bottle
      anywhere in London;” and, dropping his voice, he added: “There’s
      only five hundred dozen left. I drink it every night of my life.”

      “I’ll think of it,” old Jolyon would answer; but when he did
      think of it there was always the question of fifty guineas
      entrance fee, and it would take him four or five years to get in.
      He continued to think of it.

      He was too old to be a Liberal, had long ceased to believe in the
      political doctrines of his Club, had even been known to allude to
      them as “wretched stuff,” and it afforded him pleasure to
      continue a member in the teeth of principles so opposed to his
      own. He had always had a contempt for the place, having joined it
      many years ago when they refused to have him at the “Hotch Potch”
      owing to his being “in trade.” As if he were not as good as any
      of them! He naturally despised the Club that _did_ take him. The
      members were a poor lot, many of them in the City—stockbrokers,
      solicitors, auctioneers—what not! Like most men of strong
      character but not too much originality, old Jolyon set small
      store by the class to which he belonged. Faithfully he followed
      their customs, social and otherwise, and secretly he thought them
      “a common lot.”

      Years and philosophy, of which he had his share, had dimmed the
      recollection of his defeat at the “Hotch Potch”. and now in his
      thoughts it was enshrined as the Queen of Clubs. He would have
      been a member all these years himself, but, owing to the slipshod
      way his proposer, Jack Herring, had gone to work, they had not
      known what they were doing in keeping him out. Why! they had
      taken his son Jo at once, and he believed the boy was still a
      member; he had received a letter dated from there eight years
      ago.

      He had not been near the “Disunion” for months, and the house had
      undergone the piebald decoration which people bestow on old
      houses and old ships when anxious to sell them.

      “Beastly colour, the smoking-room!” he thought. “The dining-room
      is good!”

      Its gloomy chocolate, picked out with light green, took his
      fancy.

      He ordered dinner, and sat down in the very corner, at the very
      table perhaps! (things did not progress much at the “Disunion,” a
      Club of almost Radical principles) at which he and young Jolyon
      used to sit twenty-five years ago, when he was taking the latter
      to Drury Lane, during his holidays.

      The boy had loved the theatre, and old Jolyon recalled how he
      used to sit opposite, concealing his excitement under a careful
      but transparent nonchalance.

      He ordered himself, too, the very dinner the boy had always
      chosen—soup, whitebait, cutlets, and a tart. Ah! if he were only
      opposite now!

      The two had not met for fourteen years. And not for the first
      time during those fourteen years old Jolyon wondered whether he
      had been a little to blame in the matter of his son. An
      unfortunate love-affair with that precious flirt Danae
      Thornworthy (now Danae Pellew), Anthony Thornworthy’s daughter,
      had thrown him on the rebound into the arms of Jun’s mother. He
      ought perhaps to have put a spoke in the wheel of their marriage;
      they were too young; but after that experience of Jo’s
      susceptibility he had been only too anxious to see him married.
      And in four years the crash had come! To have approved his son’s
      conduct in that crash was, of course, impossible; reason and
      training—that combination of potent factors which stood for his
      principles—told him of this impossibility, and his heart cried
      out. The grim remorselessness of that business had no pity for
      hearts. There was June, the atom with flaming hair, who had
      climbed all over him, twined and twisted herself about him—about
      his heart that was made to be the plaything and beloved resort of
      tiny, helpless things. With characteristic insight he saw he must
      part with one or with the other; no half-measures could serve in
      such a situation. In that lay its tragedy. And the tiny, helpless
      thing prevailed. He would not run with the hare and hunt with the
      hounds, and so to his son he said good-bye.

      That good-bye had lasted until now.

      He had proposed to continue a reduced allowance to young Jolyon,
      but this had been refused, and perhaps that refusal had hurt him
      more than anything, for with it had gone the last outlet of his
      penned-in affection; and there had come such tangible and solid
      proof of rupture as only a transaction in property, a bestowal or
      refusal of such, could supply.

      His dinner tasted flat. His pint of champagne was dry and bitter
      stuff, not like the Veuve Clicquots of old days.

      Over his cup of coffee, he bethought him that he would go to the
      opera. In the _Times_, therefore—he had a distrust of other
      papers—he read the announcement for the evening. It was
      “Fidelio.”

      Mercifully not one of those new-fangled German pantomimes by that
      fellow Wagner.

      Putting on his ancient opera hat, which, with its brim flattened
      by use, and huge capacity, looked like an emblem of greater days,
      and, pulling out an old pair of very thin lavender kid gloves
      smelling strongly of Russia leather, from habitual proximity to
      the cigar-case in the pocket of his overcoat, he stepped into a
      hansom.

      The cab rattled gaily along the streets, and old Jolyon was
      struck by their unwonted animation.

      “The hotels must be doing a tremendous business,” he thought. A
      few years ago there had been none of these big hotels. He made a
      satisfactory reflection on some property he had in the
      neighbourhood. It must be going up in value by leaps and bounds!
      What traffic!

      But from that he began indulging in one of those strange
      impersonal speculations, so uncharacteristic of a Forsyte,
      wherein lay, in part, the secret of his supremacy amongst them.
      What atoms men were, and what a lot of them! And what would
      become of them all?

      He stumbled as he got out of the cab, gave the man his exact
      fare, walked up to the ticket office to take his stall, and stood
      there with his purse in his hand—he always carried his money in a
      purse, never having approved of that habit of carrying it loosely
      in the pockets, as so many young men did nowadays. The official
      leaned out, like an old dog from a kennel.

      “Why,” he said in a surprised voice, “it’s Mr. Jolyon Forsyte! So
      it is! Haven’t seen you, sir, for years. Dear me! Times aren’t
      what they were. Why! you and your brother, and that
      auctioneer—Mr. Traquair, and Mr. Nicholas Treffry—you used to
      have six or seven stalls here regular every season. And how are
      you, sir? We don’t get younger!”

      The colour in old Jolyon’s eyes deepened; he paid his guinea.
      They had not forgotten him. He marched in, to the sounds of the
      overture, like an old war-horse to battle.

      Folding his opera hat, he sat down, drew out his lavender gloves
      in the old way, and took up his glasses for a long look round the
      house. Dropping them at last on his folded hat, he fixed his eyes
      on the curtain. More poignantly than ever he felt that it was all
      over and done with him. Where were all the women, the pretty
      women, the house used to be so full of? Where was that old
      feeling in the heart as he waited for one of those great singers?
      Where that sensation of the intoxication of life and of his own
      power to enjoy it all?

      The greatest opera-goer of his day! There was no opera now! That
      fellow Wagner had ruined everything; no melody left, nor any
      voices to sing it. Ah! the wonderful singers! Gone! He sat
      watching the old scenes acted, a numb feeling at his heart.

      From the curl of silver over his ear to the pose of his foot in
      its elastic-sided patent boot, there was nothing clumsy or weak
      about old Jolyon. He was as upright—very nearly—as in those old
      times when he came every night; his sight was as good—almost as
      good. But what a feeling of weariness and disillusion!

      He had been in the habit all his life of enjoying things, even
      imperfect things—and there had been many imperfect things—he had
      enjoyed them all with moderation, so as to keep himself young.
      But now he was deserted by his power of enjoyment, by his
      philosophy, and left with this dreadful feeling that it was all
      done with. Not even the Prisoners’ Chorus, nor Florian’s Song,
      had the power to dispel the gloom of his loneliness.

      If Jo were only with him! The boy must be forty by now. He had
      wasted fourteen years out of the life of his only son. And Jo was
      no longer a social pariah. He was married. Old Jolyon had been
      unable to refrain from marking his appreciation of the action by
      enclosing his son a cheque for £500. The cheque had been returned
      in a letter from the “Hotch Potch,” couched in these words.

      “MY DEAREST FATHER,
          “Your generous gift was welcome as a sign that you might
          think worse of me. I return it, but should you think fit to
          invest it for the benefit of the little chap (we call him
          Jolly), who bears our Christian and, by courtesy, our
          surname, I shall be very glad.
          “I hope with all my heart that your health is as good as
          ever.

      “Your loving son,
      “JO.”

      The letter was like the boy. He had always been an amiable chap.
      Old Jolyon had sent this reply:

      “MY DEAR JO,
          “The sum (£500) stands in my books for the benefit of your
          boy, under the name of Jolyon Forsyte, and will be
          duly-credited with interest at 5 per cent. I hope that you
          are doing well. My health remains good at present.

      “With love, I am,
      “Your affectionate Father,
      “JOLYON FORSYTE.”

      And every year on the 1st of January he had added a hundred and
      the interest. The sum was mounting up—next New Year’s Day it
      would be fifteen hundred and odd pounds! And it is difficult to
      say how much satisfaction he had got out of that yearly
      transaction. But the correspondence had ended.

      In spite of his love for his son, in spite of an instinct, partly
      constitutional, partly the result, as in thousands of his class,
      of the continual handling and watching of affairs, prompting him
      to judge conduct by results rather than by principle, there was
      at the bottom of his heart a sort of uneasiness. His son ought,
      under the circumstances, to have gone to the dogs; that law was
      laid down in all the novels, sermons, and plays he had ever read,
      heard, or witnessed.

      After receiving the cheque back there seemed to him to be
      something wrong somewhere. Why had his son not gone to the dogs?
      But, then, who could tell?

      He had heard, of course—in fact, he had made it his business to
      find out—that Jo lived in St. John’s Wood, that he had a little
      house in Wistaria Avenue with a garden, and took his wife about
      with him into society—a queer sort of society, no doubt—and that
      they had two children—the little chap they called Jolly
      (considering the circumstances the name struck him as cynical,
      and old Jolyon both feared and disliked cynicism), and a girl
      called Holly, born since the marriage. Who could tell what his
      son’s circumstances really were? He had capitalized the income he
      had inherited from his mother’s father and joined Lloyd’s as an
      underwriter; he painted pictures, too—water-colours. Old Jolyon
      knew this, for he had surreptitiously bought them from time to
      time, after chancing to see his son’s name signed at the bottom
      of a representation of the river Thames in a dealer’s window. He
      thought them bad, and did not hang them because of the signature;
      he kept them locked up in a drawer.

      In the great opera-house a terrible yearning came on him to see
      his son. He remembered the days when he had been wont to slide
      him, in a brown holland suit, to and fro under the arch of his
      legs; the times when he ran beside the boy’s pony, teaching him
      to ride; the day he first took him to school. He had been a
      loving, lovable little chap! After he went to Eton he had
      acquired, perhaps, a little too much of that desirable manner
      which old Jolyon knew was only to be obtained at such places and
      at great expense; but he had always been companionable. Always a
      companion, even after Cambridge—a little far off, perhaps, owing
      to the advantages he had received. Old Jolyon’s feeling towards
      our public schools and ’Varsities never wavered, and he retained
      touchingly his attitude of admiration and mistrust towards a
      system appropriate to the highest in the land, of which he had
      not himself been privileged to partake.... Now that June had gone
      and left, or as good as left him, it would have been a comfort to
      see his son again. Guilty of this treason to his family, his
      principles, his class, old Jolyon fixed his eyes on the singer. A
      poor thing—a wretched poor thing! And the Florian a perfect
      stick!

      It was over. They were easily pleased nowadays!

      In the crowded street he snapped up a cab under the very nose of
      a stout and much younger gentleman, who had already assumed it to
      be his own. His route lay through Pall Mall, and at the corner,
      instead of going through the Green Park, the cabman turned to
      drive up St. James’s Street. Old Jolyon put his hand through the
      trap (he could not bear being taken out of his way); in turning,
      however, he found himself opposite the “Hotch Potch,” and the
      yearning that had been secretly with him the whole evening
      prevailed. He called to the driver to stop. He would go in and
      ask if Jo still belonged there.

      He went in. The hall looked exactly as it did when he used to
      dine there with Jack Herring, and they had the best cook in
      London; and he looked round with the shrewd, straight glance that
      had caused him all his life to be better served than most men.

      “Mr. Jolyon Forsyte still a member here?”

      “Yes, sir; in the Club now, sir. What name?”

      Old Jolyon was taken aback.

      “His father,” he said.

      And having spoken, he took his stand, back to the fireplace.

      Young Jolyon, on the point of leaving the Club, had put on his
      hat, and was in the act of crossing the hall, as the porter met
      him. He was no longer young, with hair going grey, and face—a
      narrower replica of his father’s, with the same large drooping
      moustache—decidedly worn. He turned pale. This meeting was
      terrible after all those years, for nothing in the world was so
      terrible as a scene. They met and crossed hands without a word.
      Then, with a quaver in his voice, the father said:

      “How are you, my boy?”

      The son answered:

      “How are you, Dad?”

      Old Jolyon’s hand trembled in its thin lavender glove.

      “If you’re going my way,” he said, “I can give you a lift.”

      And as though in the habit of taking each other home every night
      they went out and stepped into the cab.

      To old Jolyon it seemed that his son had grown. “More of a man
      altogether,” was his comment. Over the natural amiability of that
      son’s face had come a rather sardonic mask, as though he had
      found in the circumstances of his life the necessity for armour.
      The features were certainly those of a Forsyte, but the
      expression was more the introspective look of a student or
      philosopher. He had no doubt been obliged to look into himself a
      good deal in the course of those fifteen years.

      To young Jolyon the first sight of his father was undoubtedly a
      shock—he looked so worn and old. But in the cab he seemed hardly
      to have changed, still having the calm look so well remembered,
      still being upright and keen-eyed.

      “You look well, Dad.”

      “Middling,” old Jolyon answered.

      He was the prey of an anxiety that he found he must put into
      words. Having got his son back like this, he felt he must know
      what was his financial position.

      “Jo,” he said, “I should like to hear what sort of water you’re
      in. I suppose you’re in debt?”

      He put it this way that his son might find it easier to confess.

      Young Jolyon answered in his ironical voice:

      “No! I’m not in debt!”

      Old Jolyon saw that he was angry, and touched his hand. He had
      run a risk. It was worth it, however, and Jo had never been sulky
      with him. They drove on, without speaking again, to Stanhope
      Gate. Old Jolyon invited him in, but young Jolyon shook his head.

      “Jun’s not here,” said his father hastily: “went off to-day on a
      visit. I suppose you know that she’s engaged to be married?”

      “Already?” murmured young Jolyon’.

      Old Jolyon stepped out, and, in paying the cab fare, for the
      first time in his life gave the driver a sovereign in mistake for
      a shilling.

      Placing the coin in his mouth, the cabman whipped his horse
      secretly on the underneath and hurried away.

      Old Jolyon turned the key softly in the lock, pushed open the
      door, and beckoned. His son saw him gravely hanging up his coat,
      with an expression on his face like that of a boy who intends to
      steal cherries.

      The door of the dining-room was open, the gas turned low; a
      spirit-urn hissed on a tea-tray, and close to it a cynical
      looking cat had fallen asleep on the dining-table. Old Jolyon
      “shoo’d” her off at once. The incident was a relief to his
      feelings; he rattled his opera hat behind the animal.

      “She’s got fleas,” he said, following her out of the room.
      Through the door in the hall leading to the basement he called
      “Hssst!” several times, as though assisting the cat’s departure,
      till by some strange coincidence the butler appeared below.

      “You can go to bed, Parfitt,” said old Jolyon. “I will lock up
      and put out.”

      When he again entered the dining-room the cat unfortunately
      preceded him, with her tail in the air, proclaiming that she had
      seen through this manouevre for suppressing the butler from the
      first....

      A fatality had dogged old Jolyon’s domestic stratagems all his
      life.

      Young Jolyon could not help smiling. He was very well versed in
      irony, and everything that evening seemed to him ironical. The
      episode of the cat; the announcement of his own daughter’s
      engagement. So he had no more part or parcel in her than he had
      in the Puss! And the poetical justice of this appealed to him.

      “What is June like now?” he asked.

      “She’s a little thing,” returned old Jolyon; “they say she’s like
      me, but that’s their folly. She’s more like your mother—the same
      eyes and hair.”

      “Ah! and she is pretty?”

      Old Jolyon was too much of a Forsyte to praise anything freely;
      especially anything for which he had a genuine admiration.

      “Not bad looking—a regular Forsyte chin. It’ll be lonely here
      when she’s gone, Jo.”

      The look on his face again gave young Jolyon the shock he had
      felt on first seeing his father.

      “What will you do with yourself, Dad? I suppose she’s wrapped up
      in him?”

      “Do with myself?” repeated old Jolyon with an angry break in his
      voice. “It’ll be miserable work living here alone. I don’t know
      how it’s to end. I wish to goodness....” He checked himself, and
      added: “The question is, what had I better do with this house?”

      Young Jolyon looked round the room. It was peculiarly vast and
      dreary, decorated with the enormous pictures of still life that
      he remembered as a boy—sleeping dogs with their noses resting on
      bunches of carrots, together with onions and grapes lying side by
      side in mild surprise. The house was a white elephant, but he
      could not conceive of his father living in a smaller place; and
      all the more did it all seem ironical.

      In his great chair with the book-rest sat old Jolyon, the
      figurehead of his family and class and creed, with his white head
      and dome-like forehead, the representative of moderation, and
      order, and love of property. As lonely an old man as there was in
      London.

      There he sat in the gloomy comfort of the room, a puppet in the
      power of great forces that cared nothing for family or class or
      creed, but moved, machine-like, with dread processes to
      inscrutable ends. This was how it struck young Jolyon, who had
      the impersonal eye.

      The poor old Dad! So this was the end, the purpose to which he
      had lived with such magnificent moderation! To be lonely, and
      grow older and older, yearning for a soul to speak to!

      In his turn old Jolyon looked back at his son. He wanted to talk
      about many things that he had been unable to talk about all these
      years. It had been impossible to seriously confide in June his
      conviction that property in the Soho quarter would go up in
      value; his uneasiness about that tremendous silence of Pippin,
      the superintendent of the New Colliery Company, of which he had
      so long been chairman; his disgust at the steady fall in American
      Golgothas, or even to discuss how, by some sort of settlement, he
      could best avoid the payment of those death duties which would
      follow his decease. Under the influence, however, of a cup of
      tea, which he seemed to stir indefinitely, he began to speak at
      last. A new vista of life was thus opened up, a promised land of
      talk, where he could find a harbour against the waves of
      anticipation and regret; where he could soothe his soul with the
      opium of devising how to round off his property and make eternal
      the only part of him that was to remain alive.

      Young Jolyon was a good listener; it was his great quality. He
      kept his eyes fixed on his father’s face, putting a question now
      and then.

      The clock struck one before old Jolyon had finished, and at the
      sound of its striking his principles came back. He took out his
      watch with a look of surprise:

      “I must go to bed, Jo,” he said.

      Young Jolyon rose and held out his hand to help his father up.
      The old face looked worn and hollow again; the eyes were steadily
      averted.

      “Good-bye, my boy; take care of yourself.”

      A moment passed, and young Jolyon, turning on his heel, marched
      out at the door. He could hardly see; his smile quavered. Never
      in all the fifteen years since he had first found out that life
      was no simple business, had he found it so singularly
      complicated.




      CHAPTER III DINNER AT SWITHIN’S

      In Swithin’s orange and light-blue dining-room, facing the Park,
      the round table was laid for twelve.

      A cut-glass chandelier filled with lighted candles hung like a
      giant stalactite above its centre, radiating over large
      gilt-framed mirrors, slabs of marble on the tops of side-tables,
      and heavy gold chairs with crewel worked seats. Everything
      betokened that love of beauty so deeply implanted in each family
      which has had its own way to make into Society, out of the more
      vulgar heart of Nature. Swithin had indeed an impatience of
      simplicity, a love of ormolu, which had always stamped him
      amongst his associates as a man of great, if somewhat luxurious
      taste; and out of the knowledge that no one could possibly enter
      his rooms without perceiving him to be a man of wealth, he had
      derived a solid and prolonged happiness such as perhaps no other
      circumstance in life had afforded him.

      Since his retirement from land agency, a profession deplorable in
      his estimation, especially as to its auctioneering department, he
      had abandoned himself to naturally aristocratic tastes.

      The perfect luxury of his latter days had embedded him like a fly
      in sugar; and his mind, where very little took place from morning
      till night, was the junction of two curiously opposite emotions,
      a lingering and sturdy satisfaction that he had made his own way
      and his own fortune, and a sense that a man of his distinction
      should never have been allowed to soil his mind with work.

      He stood at the sideboard in a white waistcoat with large gold
      and onyx buttons, watching his valet screw the necks of three
      champagne bottles deeper into ice-pails. Between the points of
      his stand-up collar, which—though it hurt him to move—he would on
      no account have had altered, the pale flesh of his under chin
      remained immovable. His eyes roved from bottle to bottle. He was
      debating, and he argued like this: Jolyon drinks a glass, perhaps
      two, he’s so careful of himself. James, he can’t take his wine
      nowadays. Nicholas—Fanny and he would swill water he shouldn’t
      wonder! Soames didn’t count; these young nephews—Soames was
      thirty-one—couldn’t drink! But Bosinney?

      Encountering in the name of this stranger something outside the
      range of his philosophy, Swithin paused. A misgiving arose within
      him! It was impossible to tell! June was only a girl, in love
      too! Emily (Mrs. James) liked a good glass of champagne. It was
      too dry for Juley, poor old soul, she had no palate. As to Hatty
      Chessman! The thought of this old friend caused a cloud of
      thought to obscure the perfect glassiness of his eyes: He
      shouldn’t wonder if she drank half a bottle!

      But in thinking of his remaining guest, an expression like that
      of a cat who is just going to purr stole over his old face: Mrs.
      Soames! She mightn’t take much, but she would appreciate what she
      drank; it was a pleasure to give her good wine! A pretty
      woman—and sympathetic to him!

      The thought of her was like champagne itself! A pleasure to give
      a good wine to a young woman who looked so well, who knew how to
      dress, with charming manners, quite distinguished—a pleasure to
      entertain her. Between the points of his collar he gave his head
      the first small, painful oscillation of the evening.

      “Adolf!” he said. “Put in another bottle.”

      He himself might drink a good deal, for, thanks to that
      prescription of Blight’s, he found himself extremely well, and he
      had been careful to take no lunch. He had not felt so well for
      weeks. Puffing out his lower lip, he gave his last instructions:

      “Adolf, the least touch of the West India when you come to the
      ham.”

      Passing into the anteroom, he sat down on the edge of a chair,
      with his knees apart; and his tall, bulky form was wrapped at
      once in an expectant, strange, primeval immobility. He was ready
      to rise at a moment’s notice. He had not given a dinner-party for
      months. This dinner in honour of Jun’s engagement had seemed a
      bore at first (among Forsytes the custom of solemnizing
      engagements by feasts was religiously observed), but the labours
      of sending invitations and ordering the repast over, he felt
      pleasantly stimulated.

      And thus sitting, a watch in his hand, fat, and smooth, and
      golden, like a flattened globe of butter, he thought of nothing.

      A long man, with side whiskers, who had once been in Swithin’s
      service, but was now a greengrocer, entered and proclaimed:

      “Mrs. Chessman, Mrs. Septimus Small!”

      Two ladies advanced. The one in front, habited entirely in red,
      had large, settled patches of the same colour in her cheeks, and
      a hard, dashing eye. She walked at Swithin, holding out a hand
      cased in a long, primrose-coloured glove:

      “Well! Swithin,” she said, “I haven’t seen you for ages. How are
      you? Why, my dear boy, how stout you’re getting!”

      The fixity of Swithin’s eye alone betrayed emotion. A dumb and
      grumbling anger swelled his bosom. It was vulgar to be stout, to
      talk of being stout; he had a chest, nothing more. Turning to his
      sister, he grasped her hand, and said in a tone of command:

      “Well, Juley.”

      Mrs. Septimus Small was the tallest of the four sisters; her
      good, round old face had gone a little sour; an innumerable pout
      clung all over it, as if it had been encased in an iron wire mask
      up to that evening, which, being suddenly removed, left little
      rolls of mutinous flesh all over her countenance. Even her eyes
      were pouting. It was thus that she recorded her permanent
      resentment at the loss of Septimus Small.

      She had quite a reputation for saying the wrong thing, and,
      tenacious like all her breed, she would hold to it when she had
      said it, and add to it another wrong thing, and so on. With the
      decease of her husband the family tenacity, the family
      matter-of-factness, had gone sterile within her. A great talker,
      when allowed, she would converse without the faintest animation
      for hours together, relating, with epic monotony, the innumerable
      occasions on which Fortune had misused her; nor did she ever
      perceive that her hearers sympathized with Fortune, for her heart
      was kind.

      Having sat, poor soul, long by the bedside of Small (a man of
      poor constitution), she had acquired the habit, and there were
      countless subsequent occasions when she had sat immense periods
      of time to amuse sick people, children, and other helpless
      persons, and she could never divest herself of the feeling that
      the world was the most ungrateful place anybody could live in.
      Sunday after Sunday she sat at the feet of that extremely witty
      preacher, the Rev. Thomas Scoles, who exercised a great influence
      over her; but she succeeded in convincing everybody that even
      this was a misfortune. She had passed into a proverb in the
      family, and when anybody was observed to be peculiarly
      distressing, he was known as a regular “Juley.” The habit of her
      mind would have killed anybody but a Forsyte at forty; but she
      was seventy-two, and had never looked better. And one felt that
      there were capacities for enjoyment about her which might yet
      come out. She owned three canaries, the cat Tommy, and half a
      parrot—in common with her sister Hester;—and these poor creatures
      (kept carefully out of Timothy’s way—he was nervous about
      animals), unlike human beings, recognising that she could not
      help being blighted, attached themselves to her passionately.

      She was sombrely magnificent this evening in black bombazine,
      with a mauve front cut in a shy triangle, and crowned with a
      black velvet ribbon round the base of her thin throat; black and
      mauve for evening wear was esteemed very chaste by nearly every
      Forsyte.

      Pouting at Swithin, she said:

      “Ann has been asking for you. You haven’t been near us for an
      age!”

      Swithin put his thumbs within the armholes of his waistcoat, and
      replied:

      “Ann’s getting very shaky; she ought to have a doctor!”

      “Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Forsyte!”

      Nicholas Forsyte, cocking his rectangular eyebrows, wore a smile.
      He had succeeded during the day in bringing to fruition a scheme
      for the employment of a tribe from Upper India in the gold-mines
      of Ceylon. A pet plan, carried at last in the teeth of great
      difficulties—he was justly pleased. It would double the output of
      his mines, and, as he had often forcibly argued, all experience
      tended to show that a man must die; and whether he died of a
      miserable old age in his own country, or prematurely of damp in
      the bottom of a foreign mine, was surely of little consequence,
      provided that by a change in his mode of life he benefited the
      British Empire.

      His ability was undoubted. Raising his broken nose towards his
      listener, he would add:

      “For want of a few hundred of these fellows we haven’t paid a
      dividend for years, and look at the price of the shares. I can’t
      get ten shillings for them.”

      He had been at Yarmouth, too, and had come back feeling that he
      had added at least ten years to his own life. He grasped
      Swithin’s hand, exclaiming in a jocular voice:

      “Well, so here we are again!”

      Mrs. Nicholas, an effete woman, smiled a smile of frightened
      jollity behind his back.

      “Mr. and Mrs. James Forsyte! Mr. and Mrs. Soames Forsyte!”

      Swithin drew his heels together, his deportment ever admirable.

      “Well, James, well Emily! How are you, Soames? How do you _do?_”

      His hand enclosed Irene’s, and his eyes swelled. She was a pretty
      woman—a little too pale, but her figure, her eyes, her teeth! Too
      good for that chap Soames!

      The gods had given Irene dark brown eyes and golden hair, that
      strange combination, provocative of men’s glances, which is said
      to be the mark of a weak character. And the full, soft pallor of
      her neck and shoulders, above a gold-coloured frock, gave to her
      personality an alluring strangeness.

      Soames stood behind, his eyes fastened on his wife’s neck. The
      hands of Swithin’s watch, which he still held open in his hand,
      had left eight behind; it was half an hour beyond his
      dinner-time—he had had no lunch—and a strange primeval impatience
      surged up within him.

      “It’s not like Jolyon to be late!” he said to Irene, with
      uncontrollable vexation. “I suppose it’ll be June keeping him!”

      “People in love are always late,” she answered.

      Swithin stared at her; a dusky orange dyed his cheeks.

      “They’ve no business to be. Some fashionable nonsense!”

      And behind this outburst the inarticulate violence of primitive
      generations seemed to mutter and grumble.

      “Tell me what you think of my new star, Uncle Swithin,” said
      Irene softly.

      Among the lace in the bosom of her dress was shining a
