thought of Mad-Eye. Mad-Eye had always been 
scathing about Dumbledore’s willingness to trust 
people. 

“Well said, Harry,” said Fred unexpectedly. 

“Yeah, ’ear, ’ear,” said George, with half a glance at 
Fred, the corner of whose mouth twitched. 



Page | 88 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin was wearing an odd expression as he looked at 
Harry. It was close to pitying. 

“You think I’m a fool?” demanded Harry. 

“No, I think you’re like James,” said Lupin, “who 
would have regarded it as the height of dishonor to 
mistrust his friends.” 

Harry knew what Lupin was getting at: that his father 
had been betrayed by his friend, Peter Pettigrew. He 
felt irrationally angry. He wanted to argue, but Lupin 
had turned away from him, set down his glass upon a 
side table, and addressed Bill, “There’s work to do. I 
can ask Kingsley whether — ” 

“No,” said Bill at once, “I’ll do it, I’ll come.” 

“Where are you going?” said Tonks and Fleur 
together. 

“Mad-Eye’s body,” said Lupin. “We need to recover it.” 

“Can’t it — ?” began Mrs. Weasley with an appealing 
look at Bill. 

“Wait?” said Bill. “Not unless you’d rather the Death 
Eaters took it?” 

Nobody spoke. Lupin and Bill said good-bye and left. 

The rest of them now dropped into chairs, all except 
for Harry, who remained standing. The suddenness 
and completeness of death was with them like a 
presence. 

“I’ve got to go too,” said Harry. 



Ten pairs of startled eyes looked at him. 

Page | 89 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t be silly, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley. “What are 
you talking about?” 

“I can’t stay here.” 

He rubbed his forehead; it was prickling again, it had 
not hurt like this for more than a year. 

“You’re all in danger while I’m here. I don’t want — ” 

“But don’t be so silly!” said Mrs. Weasley. “The whole 
point of tonight was to get you here safely, and thank 
goodness it worked. And Fleur’s agreed to get married 
here rather than in France, we’ve arranged everything 
so that we can all stay together and look after you — ” 

She did not understand; she was making him feel 
worse, not better. 

“If Voldemort finds out I’m here — ” 

“But why should he?” asked Mrs. Weasley. 

“There are a dozen places you might be now, Harry,” 
said Mr. Weasley. “He’s got no way of knowing which 
safe house you’re in.” 

“It’s not me I’m worried for!” said Harry. 

“We know that,” said Mr. Weasley quietly, “but it 
would make our efforts tonight seem rather pointless 
if you left.” 

“Yer not goin’ anywhere,” growled Hagrid. “Blimey, 
Harry, after all we wen’ through ter get you here?” 

“Yeah, what about my bleeding ear?” said George, 
hoisting himself up on his cushions. 



Page | 90 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I know that — ” 



“Mad-Eye wouldn’t want — ” 

“I KNOW!” Harry bellowed. 

He felt beleaguered and blackmailed: Did they think 
he did not know what they had done for him, didn’t 
they understand that it was for precisely that reason 
that he wanted to go now, before they had to suffer 
any more on his behalf? There was a long and 
awkward silence in which his scar continued to 
prickle and throb, and which was broken at last by 
Mrs. Weasley. 

“Where’s Hedwig, Harry?” she said coaxingly. “We can 
put her up with Pigwidgeon and give her something to 
eat.” 

His insides clenched like a fist. He could not tell her 
the truth. He drank the last of his firewhisky to avoid 
answering. 

“Wait till it gets out yeh did it again, Harry,” said 
Hagrid. “Escaped him, fought him off when he was 
right on top of yeh!” 

“It wasn’t me,” said Harry flatly. “It was my wand. My 
wand acted of its own accord.” 

After a few moments, Hermione said gently, “But 
that’s impossible, Harry. You mean that you did 
magic without meaning to; you reacted instinctively.” 

“No,” said Harry. “The bike was falling, I couldn’t have 
told you where Voldemort was, but my wand spun in 
my hand and found him and shot a spell at him, and 
it wasn’t even a spell I recognized. I’ve never made 
gold flames appear before.” 

Page | 91 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Often,” said Mr. Weasley, “when you’re in a 
pressured situation you can produce magic you never 
dreamed of. Small children often find, before they’re 
trained — ” 

“It wasn’t like that,” said Harry through gritted teeth. 
His scar was burning: He felt angry and frustrated; he 
hated the idea that they were all imagining him to 
have power to match Voldemort’s. 

No one said anything. He knew that they did not 
believe him. Now that he came to think of it, he had 
never heard of a wand performing magic on its own 
before. 

His scar seared with pain; it was all he could do not 
to moan aloud. Muttering about fresh air, he set 
down his glass and left the room. 

As he crossed the dark yard, the great skeletal 
thestral looked up, rustled its enormous batlike 
wings, then resumed its grazing. Harry stopped at the 
gate into the garden, staring out at its overgrown 
plants, rubbing his pounding forehead and thinking 
of Dumbledore. 

Dumbledore would have believed him, he knew it. 
Dumbledore would have known how and why Harry’s 
wand had acted independently, because Dumbledore 
always had the answers; he had known about wands, 
had explained to Harry the strange connection that 
existed between his wand and Voldemort’s. ... But 
Dumbledore, like Mad-Eye, like Sirius, like his 
parents, like his poor owl, all were gone where Harry 
could never talk to them again. He felt a burning in 
his throat that had nothing to do with firewhisky . . . 



Page | 92 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




And then, out of nowhere, the pain in his scar 
peaked. As he clutched his forehead and closed his 
eyes, a voice screamed inside his head. 



“ You told me the problem would be solved by using 
another’s wand\” 

And into his mind burst the vision of an emaciated 
old man lying in rags upon a stone floor, screaming, a 
horrible, drawn-out scream, a scream of unendurable 
agony. ... 

“No! No! I beg you, I beg you. ...” 

“You lied to Lord Voldemort, Ollivander!” 

“I did not. ... I swear I did not. ...” 

“You sought to help Potter, to help him escape me!” 

“I swear I did not. ... I believed a different wand would 
work. ...” 

“Explain, then, what happened. Lucius’s wand is 
destroyed!” 

“I cannot understand. ... The connection ... exists 
only ... between your two wands. ...” 

“Lies!” 

“Please ... I beg you. ...” 

And Harry saw the white hand raise its wand and felt 
Voldemort ’s surge of vicious anger, saw the frail old 
man on the floor writhe in agony — 

“Harry?” 

Page | 93 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




It was over as quickly as it had come: Harry stood 
shaking in the darkness, clutching the gate into the 
garden, his heart racing, his scar still tingling. It was 
several moments before he realized that Ron and 
Hermione were at his side. 

“Harry, come back in the house,” Hermione 
whispered. “You aren’t still thinking of leaving?” 

“Yeah, you’ve got to stay, mate,” said Ron, thumping 
Harry on the back. 

“Are you all right?” Hermione asked, close enough 
now to look into Harry’s face. “You look awful!” 

“Well,” said Harry shakily, “I probably look better 
than Ollivander. ...” 

When he had finished telling them what he had seen, 
Ron looked appalled, but Hermione downright 
terrified. 

“But it was supposed to have stopped! Your scar — it 
wasn’t supposed to do this anymore! You mustn’t let 
that connection open up again — Dumbledore wanted 
you to close your mind!” 

When he did not reply, she gripped his arm. 

“Harry, he’s taking over the Ministry and the 
newspapers and half the Wizarding world! Don’t let 
him inside your head too!” 



Page | 94 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




6 




THE GHOUL IN PAJAMAS 

The shock of losing Mad-Eye hung over the house in 
the days that followed; Harry kept expecting to see 
him stumping in through the back door like the other 
Order members, who passed in and out to relay news. 
Harry felt that nothing but action would assuage his 
feelings of guilt and grief and that he ought to set out 
on his mission to find and destroy Horcruxes as soon 
as possible. 

“Well, you can’t do anything about the” — Ron 
mouthed the word Horcruxes — “till you’re seventeen. 
You’ve still got the Trace on you. And we can plan 
here as well as anywhere, can’t we? Or,” he dropped 
his voice to a whisper, “d’you reckon you already 
know where the You-Know-Whats are?” 

“No,” Harry admitted. 

“I think Hermione’s been doing a bit of research,” said 
Ron. “She said she was saving it for when you got 
here.” 



Page | 95 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



They were sitting at the breakfast table; Mr. Weasley 
and Bill had just left for work. Mrs. Weasley had gone 
upstairs to wake Hermione and Ginny, while Fleur 
had drifted off to take a bath. 

“The Trace’ll break on the thirty- first,” said Harry. 
“That means I only need to stay here four days. Then 
I can — ” 

“Five days,” Ron corrected him firmly. “We’ve got to 
stay for the wedding. They’ll kill us if we miss it.” 

Harry understood “they” to mean Fleur and Mrs. 
Weasley. 

“It’s one extra day,” said Ron, when Harry looked 
mutinous. 

“Don’t they realize how important — ?” 

“ ’Course they don’t,” said Ron. “They haven’t got a 
clue. And now you mention it, I wanted to talk to you 
about that.” 

Ron glanced toward the door into the hall to check 
that Mrs. Weasley was not returning yet, then leaned 
in closer to Harry. 

“Mum’s been trying to get it out of Hermione and me. 
What we’re off to do. She’ll try you next, so brace 
yourself. Dad and Lupin ’ve both asked as well, but 
when we said Dumbledore told you not to tell anyone 
except us, they dropped it. Not Mum, though. She’s 
determined.” 

Ron’s prediction came true within hours. Shortly 
before lunch, Mrs. Weasley detached Harry from the 
others by asking him to help identify a lone man’s 
sock that she thought might have come out of his 

Page | 96 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




rucksack. Once she had him cornered in the tiny 
scullery off the kitchen, she started. 

“Ron and Hermione seem to think that the three of 
you are dropping out of Hogwarts,” she began in a 
light, casual tone. 

“Oh,” said Harry. “Well, yeah. We are.” 

The mangle turned of its own accord in a corner, 
wringing out what looked like one of Mr. Weasley’s 
vests. 

“May I ask why you are abandoning your education?” 
said Mrs. Weasley. 

“Well, Dumbledore left me ... stuff to do,” mumbled 
Harry. “Ron and Hermione know about it, and they 
want to come too.” 

“What sort of ‘stuff’?” 

“I’m sorry, I can’t — ” 

“Well, frankly, I think Arthur and I have a right to 
know, and I’m sure Mr. and Mrs. Granger would 
agree!” said Mrs. Weasley. Harry had been afraid of 
the “concerned parent” attack. He forced himself to 
look directly into her eyes, noticing as he did so that 
they were precisely the same shade of brown as 
Ginny’s. This did not help. 

“Dumbledore didn’t want anyone else to know, Mrs. 
Weasley. I’m sorry. Ron and Hermione don’t have to 
come, it’s their choice — ” 

“I don’t see that you have to go either!” she snapped, 
dropping all pretense now. “You’re barely of age, any 
of you! It’s utter nonsense, if Dumbledore needed 

Page | 97 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




work doing, he had the whole Order at his command! 
Harry, you must have misunderstood him. Probably 
he was telling you something he wanted done, and 
you took it to mean that he wanted you — ” 

“I didn’t misunderstand,” said Harry flatly. “It’s got to 
be me.” 

He handed her back the single sock he was supposed 
to be identifying, which was patterned with golden 
bulrushes. 

“And that’s not mine, I don’t support Puddlemere 
United.” 

“Oh, of course not,” said Mrs. Weasley with a sudden 
and rather unnerving return to her casual tone. “I 
should have realized. Well, Harry, while we’ve still got 
you here, you won’t mind helping with the 
preparations for Bill and Fleur’s wedding, will you? 
There’s still so much to do.” 

“No — I — of course not,” said Harry, disconcerted by 
this sudden change of subject. 

“Sweet of you,” she replied, and she smiled as she left 
the scullery. 

From that moment on, Mrs. Weasley kept Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione so busy with preparations for the 
wedding that they hardly had any time to think. The 
kindest explanation of this behavior would have been 
that Mrs. Weasley wanted to distract them all from 
thoughts of Mad-Eye and the terrors of their recent 
journey. After two days of nonstop cutlery cleaning, of 
color-matching favors, ribbons, and flowers, of de- 
gnoming the garden and helping Mrs. Weasley cook 
vast batches of canapes, however, Harry started to 
suspect her of a different motive. All the jobs she 
Page | 98 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




handed out seemed to keep him, Ron, and Hermione 
away from one another; he had not had a chance to 
speak to the two of them alone since the first night, 
when he had told them about Voldemort torturing 
Ollivander. 

“I think Mum thinks that if she can stop the three of 
you getting together and planning, she’ll be able to 
delay you leaving,” Ginny told Harry in an undertone, 
as they laid the table for dinner on the third night of 
his stay. 

“And then what does she think’s going to happen?” 
Harry muttered. “Someone else might kill off 
Voldemort while she’s holding us here making vol-au- 
vents?” 

He had spoken without thinking, and saw Ginny’s 
face whiten. 

“So it’s true?” she said. “That’s what you’re trying to 
do?” 

“I — not — I was joking,” said Harry evasively. 

They stared at each other, and there was something 
more than shock in Ginny’s expression. Suddenly 
Harry became aware that this was the first time that 
he had been alone with her since those stolen hours 
in secluded corners of the Hogwarts grounds. He was 
sure she was remembering them too. Both of them 
jumped as the door opened, and Mr. Weasley, 
Kingsley, and Bill walked in. 

They were often joined by other Order members for 
dinner now, because the Burrow had replaced 
number twelve, Grimmauld Place as the 
headquarters. Mr. Weasley had explained that after 
the death of Dumbledore, their Secret-Keeper, each of 
Page | 99 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the people to whom Dumbledore had confided 
Grimmauld Place’s location had become a Secret- 
Keeper in turn. 

“And as there are around twenty of us, that greatly 
dilutes the power of the Fidelius Charm. Twenty times 
as many opportunities for the Death Eaters to get the 
secret out of somebody. We can’t expect it to hold 
much longer.” 

“But surely Snape will have told the Death Eaters the 
address by now?” asked Harry. 

“Well, Mad-Eye set up a couple of curses against 
Snape in case he turns up there again. We hope 
they’ll be strong enough both to keep him out and to 
bind his tongue if he tries to talk about the place, but 
we can’t be sure. It would have been insane to keep 
using the place as headquarters now that its 
protection has become so shaky.” 

The kitchen was so crowded that evening it was 
difficult to maneuver knives and forks. Harry found 
himself crammed beside Ginny; the unsaid things 
that had just passed between them made him wish 
they had been separated by a few more people. He 
was trying so hard to avoid brushing her arm he 
could barely cut his chicken. 

“No news about Mad-Eye?” Harry asked Bill. 

“Nothing,” replied Bill. 

They had not been able to hold a funeral for Moody, 
because Bill and Lupin had failed to recover his body. 
It had been difficult to know where he might have 
fallen, given the darkness and the confusion of the 
battle. 



Page | 100 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“The Daily Prophet hasn’t said a word about him 
dying or about finding the body,” Bill went on. “But 
that doesn’t mean much. It’s keeping a lot quiet these 
days.” 

“And they still haven’t called a hearing about all the 
underage magic I used escaping the Death Eaters?” 
Harry called across the table to Mr. Weasley, who 
shook his head. 

“Because they know I had no choice or because they 
don’t want me to tell the world Voldemort attacked 
me?” 

“The latter, I think. Scrimgeour doesn’t want to admit 
that You-Know-Who is as powerful as he is, nor that 
Azkaban’s seen a mass breakout.” 

“Yeah, why tell the public the truth?” said Harry, 
clenching his knife so tightly that the faint scars on 
the back of his right hand stood out, white against his 
skin: I must not tell lies. 

“Isn’t anyone at the Ministry prepared to stand up to 
him?” asked Ron angrily. 

“Of course, Ron, but people are terrified,” Mr. Weasley 
replied, “terrified that they will be next to disappear, 
their children the next to be attacked! There are nasty 
rumors going around; I for one don’t believe the 
Muggle Studies professor at Hogwarts resigned. She 
hasn’t been seen for weeks now. Meanwhile 
Scrimgeour remains shut up in his office all day: I 
just hope he’s working on a plan.” 

There was a pause in which Mrs. Weasley magicked 
the empty plates onto the work surface and served 
apple tart. 



Page | 101 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We must decide ’ow you will be disguised, ’Arry,” said 
Fleur, once everyone had pudding. “For ze wedding,” 
she added, when he looked confused. “Of course, 
none of our guests are Death Eaters, but we cannot 
guarantee zat zey will not let something slip after zey 
’ave ’ad champagne.” 

From this, Harry gathered that she still suspected 
Hagrid. 

“Yes, good point,” said Mrs. Weasley from the top of 
the table, where she sat, spectacles perched on the 
end of her nose, scanning an immense list of jobs that 
she had scribbled on a very long piece of parchment. 
“Now, Ron, have you cleaned out your room yet?” 

“ Why?” exclaimed Ron, slamming his spoon down and 
glaring at his mother. “Why does my room have to be 
cleaned out? Harry and I are fine with it the way it is!” 

“We are holding your brother’s wedding here in a few 
days’ time, young man — ” 

“And are they getting married in my bedroom?” asked 
Ron furiously. “No! So why in the name of Merlin’s 
saggy left — ” 

“Don’t talk to your mother like that,” said Mr. Weasley 
firmly. “And do as you’re told.” 

Ron scowled at both his parents, then picked up his 
spoon and attacked the last few mouthfuls of his 
apple tart. 

“I can help, some of it’s my mess,” Harry told Ron, 
but Mrs. Weasley cut across him. 

“No, Harry, dear, I’d much rather you helped Arthur 
muck out the chickens, and Hermione, I’d be ever so 

Page | 102 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




grateful if you’d change the sheets for Monsieur and 
Madame Delacour; you know they’re arriving at 
eleven tomorrow morning.” 

But as it turned out, there was very little to do for the 
chickens. “There’s no need to, er, mention it to Molly,” 
Mr. Weasley told Harry, blocking his access to the 
coop, “but, er, Ted Tonks sent me most of what was 
left of Sirius’s bike and, er, I’m hiding — that’s to say, 
keeping — it in here. Fantastic stuff: There’s an 
exhaust gaskin, as I believe it’s called, the most 
magnificent battery, and it’ll be a great opportunity to 
find out how brakes work. I’m going to try and put it 
all back together again when Molly’s not — I mean, 
when I’ve got time.” 

When they returned to the house, Mrs. Weasley was 
nowhere to be seen, so Harry slipped upstairs to 
Ron’s attic bedroom. 

“I’m doing it, I’m doing — ! Oh, it’s you,” said Ron in 
relief, as Harry entered the room. Ron lay back down 
on the bed, which he had evidently just vacated. The 
room was just as messy as it had been all week; the 
only change was that Hermione was now sitting in the 
far corner, her fluffy ginger cat, Crookshanks, at her 
feet, sorting books, some of which Harry recognized 
as his own, into two enormous piles. 

“Hi, Harry,” she said, as he sat down on his camp 
bed. 

“And how did you manage to get away?” 

“Oh, Ron’s mum forgot that she asked Ginny and me 
to change the sheets yesterday,” said Hermione. She 
threw Numerology and Grammatica onto one pile and 
The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts onto the other. 



Page | 103 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We were just talking about Mad-Eye,” Ron told 
Harry. “I reckon he might have survived.” 

“But Bill saw him hit by the Killing Curse,” said 
Harry. 

“Yeah, but Bill was under attack too,” said Ron. “How 
can he be sure what he saw?” 

“Even if the Killing Curse missed, Mad-Eye still fell 
about a thousand feet,” said Hermione, now weighing 
Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland in her hand. 

“He could have used a Shield Charm — ” 

“Fleur said his wand was blasted out of his hand,” 
said Harry. 

“Well, all right, if you want him to be dead,” said Ron 
grumpily, punching his pillow into a more 
comfortable shape. 

“Of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said 
Hermione, looking shocked. “It’s dreadful that he’s 
dead! But we’re being realistic!” 

For the first time, Harry imagined Mad-Eye’s body, 
broken as Dumbledore’s had been, yet with that one 
eye still whizzing in its socket. He felt a stab of 
revulsion mixed with a bizarre desire to laugh. 

“The Death Eaters probably tidied up after 
themselves, that’s why no one’s found him,” said Ron 
wisely. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Like Barty Crouch, turned into a 
bone and buried in Hagrid’s front garden. They 
probably transfigured Moody and stuffed him — ” 



Page | 104 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t!” squealed Hermione. Startled, Harry looked 
over just in time to see her burst into tears over her 
copy of Spellman’s Syllabary. 

“Oh no,” said Harry, struggling to get up from the old 
camp bed. “Hermione, I wasn’t trying to upset — ” 

But with a great creaking of rusty bedsprings, Ron 
bounded off the bed and got there first. One arm 
around Hermione, he fished in his jeans pocket and 
withdrew a revolting-looking handkerchief that he 
had used to clean out the oven earlier. Hastily pulling 
out his wand, he pointed it at the rag and said, 

“ Tergeo .” 

The wand siphoned off most of the grease. Looking 
rather pleased with himself, Ron handed the slightly 
smoking handkerchief to Hermione. 

“Oh ... thanks, Ron. ... I’m sorry. ...” She blew her 
nose and hiccuped. “It’s just so awf-ful, isn’t it? R- 
right after Dumbledore ... I j-just n-never imagined 
Mad-Eye dying, somehow, he seemed so tough!” 

“Yeah, I know,” said Ron, giving her a squeeze. “But 
you know what he’d say to us if he was here?” 

“ ‘C-constant vigilance,’ ” said Hermione, mopping her 
eyes. 

“That’s right,” said Ron, nodding. “He’d tell us to learn 
from what happened to him. And what I’ve learned is 
not to trust that cowardly little squit, Mundungus.” 

Hermione gave a shaky laugh and leaned forward to 
pick up two more books. A second later, Ron had 
snatched his arm back from around her shoulders; 
she had dropped The Monster Book of Monsters on his 



Page | 105 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




foot. The book had broken free from its restraining 
belt and snapped viciously at Ron’s ankle. 



“I’m sorry, I’m sorry!” Hermione cried as Harry 
wrenched the book from Ron’s leg and retied it shut. 

“What are you doing with all those books anyway?” 
Ron asked, limping back to his bed. 

“Just trying to decide which ones to take with us,” 
said Hermione. “When we’re looking for the 
Horcruxes.” 

“Oh, of course,” said Ron, clapping a hand to his 
forehead. “I forgot we’ll be hunting down Voldemort in 
a mobile library.” 

“Ha ha,” said Hermione, looking down at Spellman’s 
Syllabary. “I wonder ... will we need to translate 
runes? It’s possible. ... I think we’d better take it, to 
be safe.” 

She dropped the syllabary onto the larger of the two 
piles and picked up Hogwarts, A History. 

“Listen,” said Harry. 

He had sat up straight. Ron and Hermione looked at 
him with similar mixtures of resignation and defiance. 

“I know you said after Dumbledore’s funeral that you 
wanted to come with me,” Harry began. 

“Here he goes,” Ron said to Hermione, rolling his eyes. 

“As we knew he would,” she sighed, turning back to 
the books. “You know, I think I will take Hogwarts, A 
History. Even if we’re not going back there, I don’t 
think I’d feel right if I didn’t have it with — ” 

Page | 106 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Listen!” said Harry again. 



“No, Harry, you listen,” said Hermione. “We’re coming 
with you. That was decided months ago — years, 
really.” 

“But — ” 

“Shut up,” Ron advised him. 

“ — are you sure you’ve thought this through?” Harry 
persisted. 

“Let’s see,” said Hermione, slamming Travels with 
Trolls onto the discarded pile with a rather fierce look. 
“I’ve been packing for days, so we’re ready to leave at 
a moment’s notice, which for your information has 
included doing some pretty difficult magic, not to 
mention smuggling Mad-Eye’s whole stock of 
Polyjuice Potion right under Ron’s mum’s nose. 

“I’ve also modified my parents’ memories so that 
they’re convinced they’re really called Wendell and 
Monica Wilkins, and that their life’s ambition is to 
move to Australia, which they have now done. That’s 
to make it more difficult for Voldemort to track them 
down and interrogate them about me — or you, 
because unfortunately, I’ve told them quite a bit 
about you. 

“Assuming I survive our hunt for the Horcruxes, I’ll 
find Mum and Dad and lift the enchantment. If I don’t 
— well, I think I’ve cast a good enough charm to keep 
them safe and happy. Wendell and Monica Wilkins 
don’t know that they’ve got a daughter, you see.” 

Hermione’s eyes were swimming with tears again. Ron 
got back off the bed, put his arm around her once 
more, and frowned at Harry as though reproaching 

Page | 107 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




him for lack of tact. Harry could not think of anything 
to say, not least because it was highly unusual for 
Ron to be teaching anyone else tact. 

“I — Hermione, I’m sorry — I didn’t — ” 

“Didn’t realize that Ron and I know perfectly well 
what might happen if we come with you? Well, we do. 
Ron, show Harry what you’ve done.” 

“Nah, he’s just eaten,” said Ron. 

“Go on, he needs to know!” 

“Oh, all right. Harry, come here.” 

For the second time Ron withdrew his arm from 
around Hermione and stumped over to the door. 

“C’mon.” 

“Why?” Harry asked, following Ron out of the room 
onto the tiny landing. 

“ Descendo,” muttered Ron, pointing his wand at the 
low ceiling. A hatch opened right over their heads and 
a ladder slid down to their feet. A horrible, half- 
sucking, half-moaning sound came out of the square 
hole, along with an unpleasant smell like open drains. 

“That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?” asked Harry, who had 
never actually met the creature that sometimes 
disrupted the nightly silence. 

“Yeah, it is,” said Ron, climbing the ladder. “Come 
and have a look at him.” 

Harry followed Ron up the few short steps into the 
tiny attic space. His head and shoulders were in the 

Page | 108 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




room before he caught sight of the creature curled up 
a few feet from him, fast asleep in the gloom with its 
large mouth wide open. 

“But it ... it looks ... do ghouls normally wear 
pajamas?” 

“No,” said Ron. “Nor have they usually got red hair or 
that number of pustules.” 

Harry contemplated the thing, slightly revolted. It was 
human in shape and size, and was wearing what, now 
that Harry’s eyes became used to the darkness, was 
clearly an old pair of Ron’s pajamas. He was also sure 
that ghouls were generally rather slimy and bald, 
rather than distinctly hairy and covered in angry 
purple blisters. 

“He’s me, see?” said Ron. 

“No,” said Harry. “I don’t.” 

“I’ll explain it back in my room, the smell’s getting to 
me,” said Ron. They climbed back down the ladder, 
which Ron returned to the ceiling, and rejoined 
Hermione, who was still sorting books. 

“Once we’ve left, the ghoul’s going to come and live 
down here in my room,” said Ron. “I think he’s really 
looking forward to it — well, it’s hard to tell, because 
all he can do is moan and drool — but he nods a lot 
when you mention it. Anyway, he’s going to be me 
with spattergroit. Good, eh?” 

Harry merely looked his confusion. 

“It is!” said Ron, clearly frustrated that Harry had not 
grasped the brilliance of the plan. “Look, when we 
three don’t turn up at Hogwarts again, everyone’s 

Page | 109 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




going to think Hermione and I must be with you, 
right? Which means the Death Eaters will go straight 
for our families to see if they’ve got information on 
where you are.” 

“But hopefully it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum 
and Dad; a lot of Muggle-borns are talking about 
going into hiding at the moment,” said Hermione. 

“We can’t hide my whole family, it’ll look too fishy and 
they can’t all leave their jobs,” said Ron. “So we’re 
going to put out the story that I’m seriously ill with 
spattergroit, which is why I can’t go back to school. If 
anyone comes calling to investigate, Mum or Dad can 
show them the ghoul in my bed, covered in pustules. 
Spattergroit ’s really contagious, so they’re not going 
to want to go near him. It won’t matter that he can’t 
say anything, either, because apparently you can’t 
once the fungus has spread to your uvula.” 

“And your mum and dad are in on this plan?” asked 
