
Page | 1031Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Here,” said Lupin quietly, and pointing his wand at 
Neville’s legs he said, “Finite.” The spell was lifted. 
Neville’s legs fell back onto the floor and remained 
still. Lupin’s face was pale. “Let’s — let’s find the 
others. Where are they all, Neville?” 

Lupin turned away from the archway as he spoke. It 
sounded as though every word was causing him pain. 

“Dey’re all back dere,” said Neville. “A brain addacked 
Ron bud I dink he’s all righd — and Herbione’s 
unconscious, bud we could feel a bulse — ” 

There was a loud bang and a yell from behind the 
dais. Harry saw Kingsley, yelling in pain, hit the 
ground. Bellatrix Lestrange turned tail and ran as 
Dumbledore whipped around. He aimed a spell at her 
but she deflected it. She was halfway up the steps 
now — 

“Harry — no!” cried Lupin, but Harry had already 
ripped his arm from Lupin’s slackened grip. 

“SHE KILLED SIRIUS!” bellowed Harry. “SHE KILLED 
HIM — I’LL KILL HER!” 

And he was off, scrambling up the stone benches. 
People were shouting behind him but he did not care. 
The hem of Bellatrix’s robes whipped out of sight 
ahead and they were back in the room where the 
brains were swimming. . . 

She aimed a curse over her shoulder. The tank rose 
into the air and tipped. Harry was deluged in the foul- 
smelling potion within. The brains slipped and slid 
over him and began spinning their long, colored 
tentacles, but he shouted, “Wingardium Levioscd” and 
they flew into the air away from him. Slipping and 
sliding he ran on toward the door. He leapt over Luna, 
Page | 1032Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




who was groaning on the floor, past Ginny, who said, 
“Harry — what — ?” past Ron, who giggled feebly, and 
Hermione, who was still unconscious. He wrenched 
open the door into the circular black hall and saw 
Bellatrix disappearing through a door on the other 
side of the room — beyond her was the corridor 
leading back to the lifts. 

He ran, but she had slammed the door behind her 
and the walls had begun to rotate again. Once more 
he was surrounded by streaks of blue light from the 
whirling candelabra. 

“Where’s the exit?” he shouted desperately, as the 
wall rumbled to a halt again. “Where’s the way out?” 

The room seemed to have been waiting for him to ask. 
The door right behind him flew open, and the corridor 
toward the lifts stretched ahead of him, torch- lit and 
empty. He ran... 

He could hear a lift clattering ahead of him. He 
sprinted up the passageway, swung around the 
corner, and slammed his fist onto the button to call a 
second lift. It jangled and banged lower and lower; the 
grilles slid open and Harry dashed inside, now 
hammering the button marked Atrium. The doors slid 
shut and he was rising. . . 

He forced his way out of the lift before the grilles were 
fully open and looked around. Bellatrix was almost at 
the telephone lift at the other end of the hall, but she 
looked back as he sprinted toward her, and aimed 
another spell at him. He dodged behind the Fountain 
of Magical Brethren; the spell zoomed past him and 
hit the wrought gold gates at the other end of the 
Atrium so that they rang like bells. There were no 
more footsteps. She had stopped running. He 
crouched behind the statues, listening. 

Page | 1033Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ Come out, come out, little HarryV’ she called in her 
mock-baby voice, which echoed off the polished 
wooden floors. “What did you come after me for, then? 

I thought you were here to avenge my dear cousin!” 

“I am!” shouted Harry, and a score of ghostly Harry’s 
seemed to chorus I am\ I am\ I am\ all around the 
room. 

“Aaaaaah . . . did you love him, little baby Potter?” 

Hatred rose in Harry such as he had never known 
before. He flung himself out from behind the fountain 
and bellowed “CrucioV’ 

Bellatrix screamed. The spell had knocked her off her 
feet, but she did not writhe and shriek with pain as 
Neville had — she was already on her feet again, 
breathless, no longer laughing. Harry dodged behind 
the golden fountain again — her counterspell hit the 
head of the handsome wizard, which was blown off 
and landed twenty feet away, gouging long scratches 
into the wooden floor. 

“Never used an Unforgivable Curse before, have you, 
boy?” she yelled. She had abandoned her baby voice 
now. “You need to mean them, Potter! You need to 
really want to cause pain — to enjoy it — righteous 
anger won’t hurt me for long — I’ll show you how it is 
done, shall I? I’ll give you a lesson — ” 

Harry had been edging around the fountain on the 
other side. She screamed, “Cruciol” and he was forced 
to duck down again as the centaur’s arm, holding its 
bow, spun off and landed with a crash on the floor a 
short distance from the golden wizard’s head. 

“Potter, you cannot win against me!” she cried. He 
could hear her moving to the right, trying to get a 

Page | 1034Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




clear shot of him. He backed around the statue away 
from her, crouching behind the centaur’s legs, his 
head level with the house-elf’s. “I was and am the 
Dark Lord’s most loyal servant, I learned the Dark 
Arts from him, and I know spells of such power that 
you, pathetic little boy, can never hope to compete — ” 

“Stupefy\” yelled Harry. He had edged right around to 
where the goblin stood beaming up at the now 
headless wizard and taken aim at her back as she 
peered around the fountain for him. She reacted so 
fast he barely had time to duck. 

“Protegol” 

The jet of red light, his own Stunning Spell, bounced 
back at him. Harry scrambled back behind the 
fountain, and one of the goblin’s ears went flying 
across the room. 

“Potter, I am going to give you one chance!” shouted 
Bellatrix. “Give me the prophecy — roll it out toward 
me now — and I may spare your life!” 

“Well, you’re going to have to kill me, because it’s 
gone!” Harry roared — and as he shouted it, pain 
seared across his forehead. His scar was on fire 
again, and he felt a surge of fury that was quite 
unconnected with his own rage. “And he knows!” said 
Harry with a mad laugh to match Bellatrix ’s own. 

“Your dear old mate Voldemort knows it’s gone! He’s 
not going to be happy with you, is he?” 

“What? What do you mean?” she cried, and for the 
first time there was fear in her voice. 

“The prophecy smashed when I was trying to get 
Neville up the steps! What do you think Voldemort’ll 
say about that, then?” 

Page | 1035Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




His scar seared and burned... The pain of it was 
making his eyes stream... 



“LIAR!” she shrieked, but he could hear the terror 
behind the anger now. “YOU’VE GOT IT, POTTER, 
AND YOU WILL GIVE IT TO ME — Accio Prophecy ! 
ACCIO PROPHECY !” 

Harry laughed again because he knew it would 
incense her, the pain building in his head so badly he 
thought his skull might burst. He waved his empty 
hand from behind the one-eared goblin and withdrew 
it quickly as she sent another jet of green light flying 
at him. 

“Nothing there!” he shouted. “Nothing to summon! It 
smashed and nobody heard what it said, tell your 
boss that — ” 

“No!” she screamed. “It isn’t true, you’re lying — 
MASTER, I TRIED, I TRIED — DO NOT PUNISH ME 



“Don’t waste your breath!” yelled Harry, his eyes 
screwed up against the pain in his scar, now more 
terrible than ever. “He can’t hear you from here!” 

“Can’t I, Potter?” said a high, cold voice. 

Harry opened his eyes. 

Tall, thin, and black-hooded, his terrible snakelike 
face white and gaunt, his scarlet, slit-pupiled eyes 
staring ... Lord Voldemort had appeared in the middle 
of the hall, his wand pointing at Harry who stood 
frozen, quite unable to move. 

“So you smashed my prophecy?” said Voldemort 
softly, staring at Harry with those pitiless red eyes. 

Page | 1036Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No, Bella, he is not lying... I see the truth looking at 
me from within his worthless mind... Months of 
preparation, months of effort . . . and my Death Eaters 
have let Harry Potter thwart me again...” 

“Master, I am sorry, I knew not, I was fighting the 
Animagus Black!” sobbed Bellatrix, flinging herself 
down at Voldemort’s feet as he paced slowly nearer. 
“Master, you should know — ” 

“Be quiet, Bella,” said Voldemort dangerously. “I shall 
deal with you in a moment. Do you think I have 
entered the Ministry of Magic to hear your sniveling 
apologies?” 

“But Master — he is here — he is below — ” 

Voldemort paid no attention. 

“I have nothing more to say to you, Potter,” he said 
quietly. “You have irked me too often, for too long. 
AVADA KEDAVRAl” 

Harry had not even opened his mouth to resist. His 
mind was blank, his wand pointing uselessly at the 
floor. 

But the headless golden statue of the wizard in the 
fountain had sprung alive, leaping from its plinth, 
and landed on the floor with a crash between Harry 
and Voldemort. The spell merely glanced off its chest 
as the statue flung out its arms, protecting Harry. 

“What — ?” said Voldemort, staring around. And then 
he breathed, “Dumbledore!” 

Harry looked behind him, his heart pounding. 
Dumbledore was standing in front of the golden gates. 



Page | 1037Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort raised his wand and sent another jet of 
green light at Dumbledore, who turned and was gone 
in a whirling of his cloak; next second he had 
reappeared behind Voldemort and waved his wand 
toward the remnants of the fountain; the other 
statues sprang to life too. The statue of the witch ran 
at Bellatrix, who screamed and sent spells streaming 
uselessly off its chest, before it dived at her, pinning 
her to the floor. Meanwhile, the goblin and the house- 
elf scuttled toward the fireplaces set along the wall, 
and the one-armed centaur galloped at Voldemort, 
who vanished and reappeared beside the pool. The 
headless statue thrust Harry backward, away from 
the fight, as Dumbledore advanced on Voldemort and 
the golden centaur cantered around them both. 

“It was foolish to come here tonight, Tom,” said 
Dumbledore calmly. “The Aurors are on their way — ” 

“By which time I shall be gone, and you dead!” spat 
Voldemort. He sent another Killing Curse at 
Dumbledore but missed, instead hitting the security 
guards desk, which burst into flame. 

Dumbledore flicked his own wand. The force of the 
spell that emanated from it was such that Harry, 
though shielded by his stone guard, felt his hair 
stand on end as it passed, and this time Voldemort 
was forced to conjure a shining silver shield out of 
thin air to deflect it. The spell, whatever it was, 
caused no visible damage to the shield, though a 
deep, gonglike note reverberated from it, an oddly 
chilling sound... 

“You do not seek to kill me, Dumbledore?” called 
Voldemort, his scarlet eyes narrowed over the top of 
the shield. “Above such brutality, are you?” 



Page | 1038Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“We both know that there are other ways of 
destroying a man, Tom,” Dumbledore said calmly, 
continuing to walk toward Voldemort as though he 
had not a fear in the world, as though nothing had 
happened to interrupt his stroll up the hall. “Merely 
taking your life would not satisfy me, I admit — ” 

“There is nothing worse than death, Dumbledore!” 
snarled Voldemort. 

“You are quite wrong,” said Dumbledore, still closing 
in upon Voldemort and speaking as lightly as though 
they were discussing the matter over drinks. Harry 
felt scared to see him walking along, undefended, 
shieldless. He wanted to cry out a warning, but his 
headless guard kept shunting him backward toward 
the wall, blocking his every attempt to get out from 
behind it. “Indeed, your failure to understand that 
there are things much worse than death has always 
been your greatest weakness — ” 

Another jet of green light flew from behind the silver 
shield. This time it was the one-armed centaur, 
galloping in front of Dumbledore, that took the blast 
and shattered into a hundred pieces, but before the 
fragments had even hit the floor, Dumbledore had 
drawn back his wand and waved it as though 
brandishing a whip. A long thin flame flew from the 
tip; it wrapped itself around Voldemort, shield and all. 
For a moment, it seemed Dumbledore had won, but 
then the fiery rope became a serpent, which 
relinquished its hold upon Voldemort at once and 
turned, hissing furiously, to face Dumbledore. 

Voldemort vanished. The snake reared from the floor, 
ready to strike — 



There was a burst of flame in midair above 
Dumbledore just as Voldemort reappeared, standing 

Page | 1039Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




on the plinth in the middle of the pool where so 
recently the five statues had stood. 



“Look outi” Harry yelled. 

But even as he shouted, one more jet of green light 
had flown at Dumbledore from Voldemort’s wand and 
the snake had struck — 

Fawkes swooped down in front of Dumbledore, 
opened his beak wide, and swallowed the jet of green 
light whole. He burst into flame and fell to the floor, 
small, wrinkled, and flightless. At the same moment, 
Dumbledore brandished his wand in one, long, fluid 
movement — the snake, which had been an instant 
from sinking its fangs into him, flew high into the air 
and vanished in a wisp of dark smoke; the water in 
the pool rose up and covered Voldemort like a cocoon 
of molten glass — 

For a few seconds Voldemort was visible only as a 
dark, rippling, faceless figure, shimmering and 
indistinct upon the plinth, clearly struggling to throw 
off the suffocating mass — 

Then he was gone, and the water fell with a crash 
back into its pool, slopping wildly over the sides, 
drenching the polished floor. 

“MASTER!” screamed Bellatrix. 

Sure it was over, sure Voldemort had decided to flee, 
Harry made to run out from behind his statue guard, 
but Dumbledore bellowed, “Stay where you are, 

Harry!” 

For the first time, Dumbledore sounded frightened. 
Harry could not see why. The hall was quite empty 
but for themselves, the sobbing Bellatrix still trapped 

Page | 1040Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




under her statue, and the tiny baby Fawkes croaking 
feebly on the floor — 

And then Harry’s scar burst open. He knew he was 
dead: it was pain beyond imagining, pain past 
endurance — 

He was gone from the hall, he was locked in the coils 
of a creature with red eyes, so tightly bound that 
Harry did not know where his body ended and the 
creature’s began. They were fused together, bound by 
pain, and there was no escape — 

And when the creature spoke, it used Harry’s mouth, 
so that in his agony he felt his jaw move... 

“ Kill me now, Dumbledore...” 

Blinded and dying, every part of him screaming for 
release, Harry felt the creature use him again... 

“If death is nothing, Dumbledore, kill the boy...” 

Let the pain stop, thought Harry. Let him kill us... End 
it, Dumbledore... Death is nothing compared to this... 

And I’ll see Sirius again... 

And as Harry’s heart filled with emotion, the 
creature’s coils loosened, the pain was gone, Harry 
was lying facedown on the floor, his glasses gone, 
shivering as though he lay upon ice, not wood... 

And there were voices echoing through the hall, more 
voices than there should have been: Harry opened his 
eyes, saw his glasses lying at the heel of the headless 
statue that had been guarding him, but which now 
lay flat on its back, cracked and immobile. He put 



Page | 1041Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




them on and raised his head an inch to find 
Dumbledore’s crooked nose inches from his own. 



“Are you all right, Harry?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, shaking so violently he could not 
hold his head up properly. “Yeah, I’m — where’s 
Voldemort, where — who are all these — what’s — ” 

The Atrium was full of people. The floor was reflecting 
emerald-green flames that had burst into life in all 
the fireplaces along one wall, and a stream of witches 
and wizards was emerging from them. As Dumbledore 
pulled him back to his feet, Harry saw the tiny gold 
statues of the house-elf and the goblin leading a 
stunned-looking Cornelius Fudge forward. 

“He was there!” shouted a scarlet-robed man with a 
ponytail, who was pointing at a pile of golden rubble 
on the other side of the hall, where Bellatrix had lain 
trapped moments before. “I saw him, Mr. Fudge, I 
swear, it was You-Know-Who, he grabbed a woman 
and Disapparated!” 

“I know, Williamson, I know, I saw him too!” gibbered 
Fudge, who was wearing pajamas under his 
pinstriped cloak and was gasping as though he had 
just run miles. “Merlin’s beard — here — here! — in 
the Ministry of Magic! — great heavens above — it 
doesn’t seem possible — my word — how can this 
be?” 

“If you proceed downstairs into the Department of 
Mysteries, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, apparently 
satisfied that Harry was all right, and walking forward 
so that the newcomers realized he was there for the 
first time (a few of them raised their wands, others 
simply looked amazed; the statues of the elf and 
goblin applauded and Fudge jumped so much that 
Page | 1042Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




his slipper-clad feet left the floor), “you will find 
several escaped Death Eaters contained in the Death 
Chamber, bound by an Anti-Disapparation Jinx and 
awaiting your decision as to what to do with them.” 

“Dumbledore!” gasped Fudge, apparently beside 
himself with amazement. “You — here — I — I — ” 

He looked wildly around at the Aurors he had brought 
with him, and it could not have been clearer that he 
was in half a mind to cry, “Seize him!” 

“Cornelius, I am ready to fight your men — and win 
again!” said Dumbledore in a thunderous voice. “But 
a few minutes ago you saw proof, with your own eyes, 
that I have been telling you the truth for a year. Lord 
Voldemort has returned, you have been chasing the 
wrong men for twelve months, and it is time you 
listened to sense!” 

“I — don’t — well — ” blustered Fudge, looking around 
as though hoping somebody was going to tell him 
what to do. When nobody did, he said, “Very well — 
Dawlish! Williamson! Go down to the Department of 
Mysteries and see ... Dumbledore, you — you will 
need to tell me exactly — the Fountain of Magical 
Brethren — what happened?” he added in a kind of 
whimper, staring around at the floor, where the 
remains of the statues of the witch, wizard, and 
centaur now lay scattered. 

“We can discuss that after I have sent Harry back to 
Hogwarts,” said Dumbledore. 

“Harry — Harry Potter?” 

Fudge spun around and stared at Harry, who was 
still standing against the wall beside the fallen statue 



Page | 1043Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that had been guarding him during Dumbledore and 
Voldemort’s duel. 

“He-here?” said Fudge. “Why — what’s all this 
about?” 

“I shall explain everything,” repeated Dumbledore, 
“when Harry is back at school.” 

He walked away from the pool to the place where the 
golden wizard’s head lay on the floor. He pointed his 
wand at it and muttered, “Portus.” The head glowed 
blue and trembled noisily against the wooden floor for 
a few seconds, then became still once more. 

“Now see here, Dumbledore!” said Fudge, as 
Dumbledore picked up the head and walked back to 
Harry carrying it. “You haven’t got authorization for 
that Portkey! You can’t do things like that right in 
front of the Minister of Magic, you — you — ” 

His voice faltered as Dumbledore surveyed him 
magisterially over his half-moon spectacles. 

“You will give the order to remove Dolores Umbridge 
from Hogwarts,” said Dumbledore. “You will tell your 
Aurors to stop searching for my Care of Magical 
Creatures teacher so that he can return to work. I will 
give you ...” Dumbledore pulled a watch with twelve 
hands from his pocket and glanced at it, “half an 
hour of my time tonight, in which I think we shall be 
more than able to cover the important points of what 
has happened here. After that, I shall need to return 
to my school. If you need more help from me you are, 
of course, more than welcome to contact me at 
Hogwarts. Letters addressed to the headmaster will 
find me.” 



Page | 1044Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge goggled worse than ever. His mouth was open 
and his round face grew pinker under his rumpled 
gray hair. 

“I — you — ” 

Dumbledore turned his back on him. 

“Take this Portkey, Harry.” 

He held out the golden head of the statue, and Harry 
placed his hand upon it, past caring what he did next 
or where he went. 

“I shall see you in half an hour,” said Dumbledore 
quietly. “One ... two ... three ...” 

Harry felt the familiar sensation of a hook being 
jerked behind his navel. The polished wooden floor 
was gone from beneath his feet; the Atrium, Fudge, 
and Dumbledore had all disappeared, and he was 
flying forward in a whirlwind of color and sound. . . 



Page | 1045Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE LOST PROPHECY 

Harry’s feet hit solid ground again; his knees buckled 
a little and the golden wizard’s head fell with a 
resounding clunk to the floor. He looked around and 
saw that he had arrived in Dumbledore’s office. 

Everything seemed to have repaired itself during the 
headmaster’s absence. The delicate silver instruments 
stood again upon the spindle-legged tables, puffing 
and whirring serenely. The portraits of the 
headmasters and headmistresses were snoozing in 
their frames, heads lolling back in armchairs or 
against the edge of their pictures. Harry looked 
through the window. There was a cool line of pale 
green along the horizon: Dawn was approaching. 

The silence and the stillness, broken only by the 
occasional grunt or snuffle of a sleeping portrait, was 
unbearable to him. If his surroundings could have 
reflected the feelings inside him, the pictures would 
have been screaming in pain. He walked around the 
quiet, beautiful office, breathing quickly, trying not to 
think. But he had to think... There was no escape... 
Page | 1046Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



It was his fault Sirius had died; it was all his fault. If 
he, Harry, had not been stupid enough to fall for 
Voldemort’s trick, if he had not been so convinced 
that what he had seen in his dream was real, if he 
had only opened his mind to the possibility that 
Voldemort was, as Hermione had said, banking on 
Harry’s love of playing the hero . . . 

It was unbearable, he would not think about it, he 
could not stand it... There was a terrible hollow inside 
him he did not want to feel or examine, a dark hole 
where Sirius had been, where Sirius had vanished. 

He did not want to have to be alone with that great, 
silent space, he could not stand it — 

A picture behind him gave a particularly loud 
grunting snore, and a cool voice said, “Ah ... Harry 
Potter ...” 

Phineas Nigellus gave a long yawn, stretching his 
arms as he watched Harry with shrewd, narrow eyes. 

“And what brings you here in the early hours of the 
morning?” said Phineas. “This office is supposed to be 
barred to all but the rightful headmaster. Or has 
Dumbledore sent you here? Oh, don’t tell me ...” He 
gave another shuddering yawn. “Another message for 
my worthless great-great-grandson?” 

Harry could not speak. Phineas Nigellus did not know 
that Sirius was dead, but Harry could not tell him. To 
say it aloud would be to make it final, absolute, 
irretrievable. 

A few more of the portraits had stirred now. Terror of 
being interrogated made Harry stride across the room 
and seize the doorknob. 



It would not turn. He was shut in. 

Page | 1047Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I hope this means,” said the corpulent, red-nosed 
wizard who hung on the wall behind Dumbledore’s 
desk, “that Dumbledore will soon be back with us?” 

Harry turned. The wizard was eyeing him with great 
interest. Harry nodded. He tugged again on the 
doorknob behind his back, but it remained 
immovable. 

“Oh good,” said the wizard. “It has been very dull 
without him, very dull indeed.” 

He settled himself on the thronelike chair on which he 
had been painted and smiled benignly upon Harry. 

“Dumbledore thinks very highly of you, as I am sure 
you know,” he said comfortably. “Oh yes. Holds you 
in great esteem.” 

The guilt filling the whole of Harry’s chest like some 
monstrous, weighty parasite now writhed and 
squirmed. Harry could not stand this, he could not 
stand being Harry anymore... He had never felt more 
trapped inside his own head and body, never wished 
so intensely that he could be somebody — anybody — 
else... 

The empty fireplace burst into emerald-green flame, 
making Harry leap away from the door, staring at the 
man spinning inside the grate. As Dumbledore’s tall 
form unfolded itself from the fire, the wizards and 
witches on the surrounding walls jerked awake. Many 
of them gave cries of welcome. 

“Thank you,” said Dumbledore softly. 

He did not look at Harry at first, but walked over to 
the perch beside the door and withdrew, from an 
inside pocket of his robes, the tiny, ugly, featherless 

Page | 1048Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fawkes, whom he placed gently on the tray of soft 
ashes beneath the golden post where the full-grown 
Fawkes usually stood. 

“Well, Harry,” said Dumbledore, finally turning away 
from the baby bird, “you will be pleased to hear that 
none of your fellow students are going to suffer 
lasting damage from the night’s events.” 

Harry tried to say “Good,” but no sound came out. It 
seemed to him that Dumbledore was reminding him 
of the amount of damage he had caused by his 
actions tonight, and although Dumbledore was for 
once looking at him directly, and though his 
expression was kindly rather than accusatory, Harry 
could not bear to meet his eyes. 

“Madam Pomfrey is patching everybody up now,” said 
Dumbledore. “Nymphadora Tonks may need to spend 
a little time in St. Mungo’s, but it seems that she will 
make a full recovery.” 

Harry contented himself with nodding at the carpet, 
which was growing lighter as the sky outside grew 
paler. He was sure that all the portraits around the 
room were listening eagerly to every word Dumbledore 
spoke, wondering where Dumbledore and Harry had 
been and why there had been injuries. 

“I know how you are feeling, Harry,” said Dumbledore 
very quietly. 

“No, you don’t,” said Harry, and his voice was 
suddenly loud and strong. White-hot anger leapt 
inside him. Dumbledore knew nothing about his 
feelings. 

“You see, Dumbledore?” said Phineas Nigellus slyly. 
“Never try to understand the students. They hate it. 

Page | 1049Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They would much rather be tragically misunderstood, 
wallow in self-pity, stew in their own — ” 

“That’s enough, Phineas,” said Dumbledore. 

Harry turned his back on Dumbledore and stared 
determinedly out of the opposite window. He could 
see the Quidditch stadium in the distance. Sirius had 
appeared there once, disguised as the shaggy black 
dog, so he could watch Harry play. . . He had probably 
come to see whether Harry was as good as James had 
been... Harry had never asked him... 

“There is no shame in what you are feeling, Harry,” 
said Dumbledore ’s voice. “On the contrary ... the fact 
that you can feel pain like this is your greatest 
strength.” 

Harry felt the white-hot anger lick his insides, blazing 
in the terrible emptiness, filling him with the desire to 
hurt Dumbledore for his calmness and his empty 
words. 

“My greatest strength, is it?” said Harry, his voice 
shaking as he stared out at the Quidditch stadium, 
no longer seeing it. “You haven’t got a clue... You 
don’t know ...” 

“What don’t I know?” asked Dumbledore calmly. 

It was too much. Harry turned around, shaking with 
rage. 

“I don’t want to talk about how I feel, all right?” 

“Harry, suffering like this proves you are still a man! 
This pain is part of being human — ” 



Page | 1050Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“THEN — I — DONT — WANT — TO-BE — 
HUMAN!” Harry roared, and he seized one of the 
delicate silver instruments from the spindle-legged 
table beside him and flung it across the room. It 
shattered into a hundred tiny pieces against the wall. 
Several of the pictures let out yells of anger and 
fright, and the portrait of Armando Dippet said, 
a Reallyl” 

“I DONT CARE!” Harry yelled at them, snatching up a 
lunascope and throwing it into the fireplace. “I’VE 
HAD ENOUGH, IVE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I 
WANT IT TO END, I DONT CARE ANYMORE — ” 

He seized the table on which the silver instrument 
had stood and threw that too. It broke apart on the 
floor and the legs rolled in different directions. 

“You do care,” said Dumbledore. He had not flinched 
or made a single move to stop Harry demolishing his 
office. His expression was calm, almost detached. 

“You care so much you feel as though you will bleed 
to death with the pain of it.” 

“I — DONT!” Harry screamed, so loudly that he felt 
his throat might tear, and for a second he wanted to 
rush at Dumbledore and break him too; shatter that 
calm old face, shake him, hurt him, make him feel 
some tiny part of the horror inside Harry. 

“Oh yes, you do,” said Dumbledore, still more calmly. 
“You have now lost your mother, your father, and the 
closest thing to a parent you have ever known. Of 
course you care.” 

“YOU DONT KNOW HOW I FEEL!” Harry roared. 

“YOU — STANDING THERE — YOU — ” 



Page | 1051Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But words were no longer enough, smashing things 
was no more help. He wanted to run, he wanted to 
keep running and never look back, he wanted to be 
somewhere he could not see the clear blue eyes 
staring at him, that hatefully calm old face. He ran to 
the door, seized the doorknob again, and wrenched at 
it. 

But the door would not open. 

Harry turned back to Dumbledore. 

“Let me out,” he said. He was shaking from head to 
foot. 

“No,” said Dumbledore simply. 

For a few seconds they stared at each other. 

“Let me out,” Harry said again. 

“No,” Dumbledore repeated. 

“If you don’t — if you keep me in here — if you don’t 
let me — ” 

“By all means continue destroying my possessions,” 
said Dumbledore serenely. “I daresay I have too 
many.” 

He walked around his desk and sat down behind it, 
watching Harry. 

“Let me out,” Harry said yet again, in a voice that was 
cold and almost as calm as Dumbledore ’s. 

“Not until I have had my say,” said Dumbledore. 



Page | 1052Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Do you — do you think I want to — do you think I 
give a — I DONT CARE WHAT YOUVE GOT TO SAY!” 
Harry roared. “I don’t want to hear anything you’ve 
got to say!” 

“You will,” said Dumbledore sadly. “Because you are 
not nearly as angry with me as you ought to be. If you 
are to attack me, as I know you are close to doing, I 
would like to have thoroughly earned it.” 

“What are you talking — ?” 

“It is my fault that Sirius died,” said Dumbledore 
clearly. “Or I should say almost entirely my fault — I 
will not be so arrogant as to claim responsibility for 
the whole. Sirius was a brave, clever, and energetic 
man, and such men are not usually content to sit at 
home in hiding while they believe others to be in 
danger. Nevertheless, you should never have believed 
for an instant that there was any necessity for you to 
go to the Department of Mysteries tonight. If I had 
been open with you, Harry, as I should have been, 
you would have known a long time ago that 
Voldemort might try and lure you to the Department 
of Mysteries, and you would never have been tricked 
into going there tonight. And Sirius would not have 
had to come after you. That blame lies with me, and 
with me alone.” 

Harry was still standing with his hand on the 
doorknob but he was unaware of it. He was gazing at 
Dumbledore, hardly breathing, listening yet barely 
understanding what he was hearing. 

“Please sit down,” said Dumbledore. It was not an 
order, it was a request. 



Page | 1053Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry hesitated, then walked slowly across the room 
now littered with silver cogs and fragments of wood 
and took the seat facing Dumbledore ’s desk. 

“Am I to understand,” said Phineas Nigellus slowly 
from Harry’s left, “that my great-great-grandson — 
the last of the Blacks — is dead?” 

“Yes, Phineas,” said Dumbledore. 

“I don’t believe it,” said Phineas brusquely. 

Harry turned his head in time to see Phineas 
marching out of his portrait and knew that he had 
gone to visit his other painting in Grimmauld Place. 
He would walk, perhaps, from portrait to portrait, 
calling for Sirius through the house... 
