three. One — two — THREE!” 

A flash of blue-white light erupted from both wands; 
for a moment, Scabbers was frozen in midair, his 
small gray form twisting madly — Ron yelled — the 
rat fell and hit the floor. There was another blinding 
flash of light and then — 

It was like watching a speeded-up film of a growing 
tree. A head was shooting upward from the ground; 
limbs were sprouting; a moment later, a man was 
standing where Scabbers had been, cringing and 
wringing his hands. Crookshanks was spitting and 
snarling on the bed; the hair on his back was 
standing up. 

He was a very short man, hardly taller than Harry 
and Hermione. His thin, colorless hair was unkempt 
and there was a large bald patch on top. He had the 
shrunken appearance of a plump man who has lost a 
lot of weight in a short time. His skin looked grubby, 
almost like Scabbers ’s fur, and something of the rat 
lingered around his pointed nose and his very small, 
watery eyes. He looked around at them all, his 
breathing fast and shallow. Harry saw his eyes dart to 
the door and back again. 

“Well, hello, Peter,” said Lupin pleasantly, as though 
rats frequently erupted into old school friends around 
him. “Long time, no see.” 

Page | 409 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“S — Sirius ... R — Remus ...” Even Pettigrew’s voice 
was squeaky. Again, his eyes darted toward the door. 
“My friends ... my old friends ...” 

Black’s wand arm rose, but Lupin seized him around 
the wrist, gave him a warning look, then turned again 
to Pettigrew, his voice light and casual. 

“We’ve been having a little chat, Peter, about what 
happened the night Lily and James died. You might 
have missed the finer points while you were 
squeaking around down there on the bed — ” 

“Remus,” gasped Pettigrew, and Harry could see 
beads of sweat breaking out over his pasty face, “you 
don’t believe him, do you... ? He tried to kill me, 
Remus. ...” 

“So we’ve heard,” said Lupin, more coldly. “I’d like to 
clear up one or two little matters with you, Peter, if 
you’d be so — ” 

“He’s come to try and kill me again!” Pettigrew 
squeaked suddenly, pointing at Black, and Harry saw 
that he used his middle finger, because his index was 
missing. “He killed Lily and James and now he’s going 
to kill me too. ... You’ve got to help me, Remus. ...” 

Black’s face looked more skull-like than ever as he 
stared at Pettigrew with his fathomless eyes. 

“No one’s going to try and kill you until we’ve sorted a 
few things out,” said Lupin. 

“Sorted things out?” squealed Pettigrew, looking 
wildly about him once more, eyes taking in the 
boarded windows and, again, the only door. “I knew 
he’d come after me! I knew he’d be back for me! I’ve 
been waiting for this for twelve years!” 

Page | 410 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You knew Sirius was going to break out of Azkaban?” 
said Lupin, his brow furrowed. “When nobody has 
ever done it before?” 

“He’s got dark powers the rest of us can only dream 
of!” Pettigrew shouted shrilly. “How else did he get out 
of there? I suppose He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named 
taught him a few tricks!” 

Black started to laugh, a horrible, mirthless laugh 
that filled the whole room. 

“Voldemort, teach me tricks?” he said. 

Pettigrew flinched as though Black had brandished a 
whip at him. 

“What, scared to hear your old master’s name?” said 
Black. “I don’t blame you, Peter. His lot aren’t very 
happy with you, are they?” 

“Don’t know what you mean, Sirius — ” muttered 
Pettigrew, his breathing faster than ever. His whole 
face was shining with sweat now. 

“You haven’t been hiding from me for twelve years,” 
said Black. “You’ve been hiding from Voldemort’s old 
supporters. I heard things in Azkaban, Peter. ... They 
all think you’re dead, or you’d have to answer to 
them. ... I’ve heard them screaming all sorts of things 
in their sleep. Sounds like they think the double- 
crosser double-crossed them. Voldemort went to the 
Potters’ on your information ... and Voldemort met his 
downfall there. And not all Voldemort’s supporters 
ended up in Azkaban, did they? There are still plenty 
out here, biding their time, pretending they’ve seen 
the error of their ways. ... If they ever got wind that 
you were still alive, Peter — ” 



Page | 411 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t know ... what you’re talking about... said 
Pettigrew again, more shrilly than ever. He wiped his 
face on his sleeve and looked up at Lupin. “You don’t 
believe this — this madness, Remus — ” 

“I must admit, Peter, I have difficulty in 
understanding why an innocent man would want to 
spend twelve years as a rat,” said Lupin evenly. 

“Innocent, but scared!” squealed Pettigrew. “If 
Voldemort’s supporters were after me, it was because 
I put one of their best men in Azkaban — the spy, 
Sirius Black!” 

Black’s face contorted. 

“How dare you,” he growled, sounding suddenly like 
the bear-sized dog he had been. “I, a spy for 
Voldemort? When did I ever sneak around people who 
were stronger and more powerful than myself? But 
you, Peter — I’ll never understand why I didn’t see 
you were the spy from the start. You always liked big 
friends who’d look after you, didn’t you? It used to be 
us ... me and Remus ... and James. ...” 

Pettigrew wiped his face again; he was almost panting 
for breath. 

“Me, a spy ... must be out of your mind ... never ... 
don’t know how you can say such a — ” 

“Lily and James only made you Secret-Keeper 
because I suggested it,” Black hissed, so venomously 
that Pettigrew took a step backward. “I thought it was 
the perfect plan ... a bluff. ... Voldemort would be 
sure to come after me, would never dream they’d use 
a weak, talentless thing like you. ... It must have been 
the finest moment of your miserable life, telling 
Voldemort you could hand him the Potters.” 

Page | 412 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Pettigrew was muttering distractedly; Harry caught 
words like “far-fetched” and “lunacy,” but he couldn’t 
help paying more attention to the ashen color of 
Pettigrew’s face and the way his eyes continued to 
dart toward the windows and door. 

“Professor Lupin?” said Hermione timidly. “Can — can 
I say something?” 

“Certainly, Hermione,” said Lupin courteously. 

“Well — Scabbers — I mean, this — this man — he’s 
been sleeping in Harry’s dormitory for three years. If 
he’s working for You-Know-Who, how come he never 
tried to hurt Harry before now?” 

“There!” said Pettigrew shrilly, pointing at Ron with 
his maimed hand. “Thank you! You see, Remus? I 
have never hurt a hair of Harry’s head! Why should 
I?” 

“I’ll tell you why,” said Black. “Because you never did 
anything for anyone unless you could see what was in 
it for you. Voldemort’s been in hiding for fifteen years, 
they say he’s half dead. You weren’t about to commit 
murder right under Albus Dumbledore’s nose, for a 
wreck of a wizard who’d lost all of his power, were 
you? You’d want to be quite sure he was the biggest 
bully in the playground before you went back to him, 
wouldn’t you? Why else did you find a wizard family 
to take you in? Keeping an ear out for news, weren’t 
you, Peter? Just in case your old protector regained 
strength, and it was safe to rejoin him. ...” 

Pettigrew opened his mouth and closed it several 
times. He seemed to have lost the ability to talk. 

“Er — Mr. Black — Sirius?” said Hermione. 



Page | 413 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black jumped at being addressed like this and stared 
at Hermione as though he had never seen anything 
quite like her. 

“If you don’t mind me asking, how — how did you get 
out of Azkaban, if you didn’t use Dark Magic?” 

“Thank you!” gasped Pettigrew, nodding frantically at 
her. “Exactly! Precisely what I — ” 

But Lupin silenced him with a look. Black was 
frowning slightly at Hermione, but not as though he 
were annoyed with her. He seemed to be pondering 
his answer. 

“I don’t know how I did it,” he said slowly. “I think the 
only reason I never lost my mind is that I knew I was 
innocent. That wasn’t a happy thought, so the 
dementors couldn’t suck it out of me ... but it kept me 
sane and knowing who I am . . . helped me keep my 
powers ... so when it all became . . . too much ... I 
could transform in my cell . . . become a dog. 
Dementors can’t see, you know. ...” He swallowed. 
“They feel their way toward people by feeding off their 
emotions. ... They could tell that my feelings were less 
— less human, less complex when I was a dog ... but 
they thought, of course, that I was losing my mind 
like everyone else in there, so it didn’t trouble them. 
But I was weak, very weak, and I had no hope of 
driving them away from me without a wand. ... 

“But then I saw Peter in that picture ... I realized he 
was at Hogwarts with Harry . . . perfectly positioned to 
act, if one hint reached his ears that the Dark Side 
was gathering strength again. ...” 

Pettigrew was shaking his head, mouthing 
noiselessly, but staring all the while at Black as 
though hypnotized. 

Page | 414 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




"... ready to strike at the moment he could be sure of 
allies ... and to deliver the last Potter to them. If he 
gave them Harry, who’d dare say he’d betrayed Lord 
Voldemort? He’d be welcomed back with honors. ... 

“So you see, I had to do something. I was the only one 
who knew Peter was still alive. ...” 

Harry remembered what Mr. Weasley had told Mrs. 
Weasley. “The guards say he’s been talking in his 
sleep ... always the same words ... ‘He’s at Hog warts.’ 



“It was as if someone had lit a fire in my head, and 
the dementors couldn’t destroy it. ... It wasn’t a 
happy feeling ... it was an obsession . . . but it gave me 
strength, it cleared my mind. So, one night when they 
opened my door to bring food, I slipped past them as 
a dog. ... It’s so much harder for them to sense 
animal emotions that they were confused. ... I was 
thin, very thin . . . thin enough to slip through the 
bars. ... I swam as a dog back to the mainland. ... I 
journeyed north and slipped into the Hogwarts 
grounds as a dog. I’ve been living in the forest ever 
since, except when I came to watch the Quidditch, of 
course. You fly as well as your father did, Harry. ...” 

He looked at Harry, who did not look away. 

“Believe me,” croaked Black. “Believe me, Harry. I 
never betrayed James and Lily. I would have died 
before I betrayed them.” 

And at long last, Harry believed him. Throat too tight 
to speak, he nodded. 

“No!” 



Page | 415 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Pettigrew had fallen to his knees as though Harry’s 
nod had been his own death sentence. He shuffled 
forward on his knees, groveling, his hands clasped in 
front of him as though praying. 

“Sirius — it’s me ... it’s Peter ... your friend ... you 
wouldn’t ...” 

Black kicked out and Pettigrew recoiled. 

“There’s enough filth on my robes without you 
touching them,” said Black. 

“Remus!” Pettigrew squeaked, turning to Lupin 
instead, writhing imploringly in front of him. “You 
don’t believe this ... wouldn’t Sirius have told you 
they’d changed the plan?” 

“Not if he thought I was the spy, Peter,” said Lupin. “I 
assume that’s why you didn’t tell me, Sirius?” he said 
casually over Pettigrew’s head. 

“Forgive me, Remus,” said Black. 

“Not at all, Padfoot, old friend,” said Lupin, who was 
now rolling up his sleeves. “And will you, in turn, 
forgive me for believing you were the spy?” 

“Of course,” said Black, and the ghost of a grin flitted 
across his gaunt face. He, too, began rolling up his 
sleeves. “Shall we kill him together?” 

“Yes, I think so,” said Lupin grimly. 

“You wouldn’t ... you won’t... ,” gasped Pettigrew. And 
he scrambled around to Ron. 



Page | 416 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron ... haven’t I been a good friend ... a good pet? 

You won’t let them kill me, Ron, will you ... you’re on 
my side, aren’t you?” 

But Ron was staring at Pettigrew with the utmost 
revulsion. 

“I let you sleep in my bed\” he said. 

“Kind boy ... kind master ...” Pettigrew crawled toward 
Ron, “you won’t let them do it. ... I was your rat. ... I 
was a good pet. ...” 

“If you made a better rat than a human, it’s not much 
to boast about, Peter,” said Black harshly. Ron, going 
still paler with pain, wrenched his broken leg out of 
Pettigrew’s reach. Pettigrew turned on his knees, 
staggered forward, and seized the hem of Hermione’s 
robes. 

“Sweet girl ... clever girl ... you — you won’t let them. 
... Help me. ...” 

Hermione pulled her robes out of Pettigrew’s 
clutching hands and backed away against the wall, 
looking horrified. 

Pettigrew knelt, trembling uncontrollably, and turned 
his head slowly toward Harry. 

“Harry ... Harry ... you look just like your father ... 
just like him. ...” 

“HOW DARE YOU SPEAK TO HARRY?” roared Black. 
“HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW DARE YOU TALK 
ABOUT JAMES IN FRONT OF HIM?” 

“Harry,” whispered Pettigrew, shuffling toward him, 
hands outstretched. “Harry, James wouldn’t have 

Page | 417 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




wanted me killed. ... James would have understood, 
Harry ... he would have shown me mercy. ...” 



Both Black and Lupin strode forward, seized 
Pettigrew’s shoulders, and threw him backward onto 
the floor. He sat there, twitching with terror, staring 
up at them. 

“You sold Lily and James to Voldemort,” said Black, 
who was shaking too. “Do you deny it?” 

Pettigrew burst into tears. It was horrible to watch, 
like an oversized, balding baby, cowering on the floor. 

“Sirius, Sirius, what could I have done? The Dark 
Lord . . . you have no idea ... he has weapons you can’t 
imagine. ... I was scared, Sirius, I was never brave 
like you and Remus and James. I never meant it to 
happen. ... He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named forced me — 



“DONT LIE!” bellowed Black. “YOU’D BEEN PASSING 
INFORMATION TO HIM FOR A YEAR BEFORE LILY 
AND JAMES DIED! YOU WERE HIS SPY!” 

“He — he was taking over everywhere!” gasped 
Pettigrew. “Wh — what was there to be gained by 
refusing him?” 

“What was there to be gained by fighting the most evil 
wizard who has ever existed?” said Black, with a 
terribly fury in his face. “Only innocent lives, Peter!” 

“You don’t understand!” whined Pettigrew. “He would 
have killed me, Sirius!” 

“THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE DIED!” roared Black. 
“DIED RATHER THAN BETRAY YOUR FRIENDS, AS 
WE WOULD HAVE DONE FOR YOU!” 

Page | 418 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black and Lupin stood shoulder to shoulder, wands 
raised. 

“You should have realized,” said Lupin quietly, “if 
Voldemort didn’t kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter.” 

Hermione covered her face with her hands and turned 
to the wall. 

“NO!” Harry yelled. He ran forward, placing himself in 
front of Pettigrew, facing the wands. “You can’t kill 
him,” he said breathlessly. “You can’t.” 

Black and Lupin both looked staggered. 

“Harry, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no 
parents,” Black snarled. “This cringing bit of filth 
would have seen you die too, without turning a hair. 
You heard him. His own stinking skin meant more to 
him than your whole family.” 

“I know,” Harry panted. “We’ll take him up to the 
castle. We’ll hand him over to the dementors. ... He 
can go to Azkaban ... but don’t kill him.” 

“Harry!” gasped Pettigrew, and he flung his arms 
around Harry’s knees. “You — thank you — it’s more 
than I deserve — thank you — ” 

“Get off me,” Harry spat, throwing Pettigrew’s hands 
off him in disgust. “I’m not doing this for you. I’m 
doing it because — I don’t reckon my dad would’ve 
wanted them to become killers — just for you.” 

No one moved or made a sound except Pettigrew, 
whose breath was coming in wheezes as he clutched 
his chest. Black and Lupin were looking at each 
other. Then, with one movement, they lowered their 
wands. 

Page | 419 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re the only person who has the right to decide, 
Harry,” said Black. “But think ... think what he did. 



“He can go to Azkaban,” Harry repeated. “If anyone 
deserves that place, he does. ...” 

Pettigrew was still wheezing behind him. 

“Very well,” said Lupin. “Stand aside, Harry.” 

Harry hesitated. 

“I’m going to tie him up,” said Lupin. “That’s all, I 
swear.” 

Harry stepped out of the way. Thin cords shot from 
Lupin’s wand this time, and next moment, Pettigrew 
was wriggling on the floor, bound and gagged. 

“But if you transform, Peter,” growled Black, his own 
wand pointing at Pettigrew too, “we will kill you. You 
agree, Harry?” 

Harry looked down at the pitiful figure on the floor 
and nodded so that Pettigrew could see him. 

“Right,” said Lupin, suddenly businesslike. “Ron, I 
can’t mend bones nearly as well as Madam Pomfrey, 
so I think it’s best if we just strap your leg up until we 
can get you to the hospital wing.” 

He hurried over to Ron, bent down, tapped Ron’s leg 
with his wand, and muttered, “Ferula.” Bandages 
spun up Ron’s leg, strapping it tightly to a splint. 
Lupin helped him to his feet; Ron put his weight 
gingerly on the leg and didn’t wince. 

“That’s better,” he said. “Thanks.” 

Page | 420 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What about Professor Snape?” said Hermione in a 
small voice, looking down at Snape’s prone figure. 



“There’s nothing seriously wrong with him,” said 
Lupin, bending over Snape and checking his pulse. 
“You were just a little — overenthusiastic. Still out 
cold. Er — perhaps it will be best if we don’t revive 
him until we’re safely back in the castle. We can take 
him like this. ...” 

He muttered, “Mobilicorpus.” As though invisible 
strings were tied to Snape’s wrists, neck, and knees, 
he was pulled into a standing position, head still 
lolling unpleasantly, like a grotesque puppet. He hung 
a few inches above the ground, his limp feet dangling. 
Lupin picked up the Invisibility Cloak and tucked it 
safely into his pocket. 

“And two of us should be chained to this,” said Black, 
nudging Pettigrew with his toe. “Just to make sure.” 

“I’ll do it,” said Lupin. 

“And me,” said Ron savagely, limping forward. 

Black conjured heavy manacles from thin air; soon 
Pettigrew was upright again, left arm chained to 
Lupin’s right, right arm to Ron’s left. Ron’s face was 
set. He seemed to have taken Scabbers’s true identity 
as a personal insult. Crookshanks leapt lightly off the 
bed and led the way out of the room, his bottlebrush 
tail held jauntily high. 



Page | 421 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






THE DEMENTOR’S KISS 

Harry had never been part of a stranger group. 
Crookshanks led the way down the stairs; Lupin, 
Pettigrew, and Ron went next, looking like entrants in 
a six-legged race. Next came Professor Snape, drifting 
creepily along, his toes hitting each stair as they 
descended, held up by his own wand, which was 
being pointed at him by Sirius. Harry and Hermione 
brought up the rear. 

Getting back into the tunnel was difficult. Lupin, 
Pettigrew, and Ron had to turn sideways to manage 
it; Lupin still had Pettigrew covered with his wand. 
Harry could see them edging awkwardly along the 
tunnel in single file. Crookshanks was still in the 
lead. Harry went right after Black, who was still 
making Snape drift along ahead of them; he kept 
bumping his lolling head on the low ceiling. Harry 
had the impression Black was making no effort to 
prevent this. 



Page | 422 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“You know what this means?” Black said abruptly to 
Harry as they made their slow progress along the 
tunnel. “Turning Pettigrew in?” 

“You’re free,” said Harry. 

“Yes ... ,” said Black. “But I’m also — I don’t know if 
anyone ever told you — I’m your godfather.” 

“Yeah, I knew that,” said Harry. 

“Well ... your parents appointed me your guardian,” 
said Black stiffly. “If anything happened to them ...” 

Harry waited. Did Black mean what he thought he 
meant? 

“I’ll understand, of course, if you want to stay with 
your aunt and uncle,” said Black. “But ... well ... 
think about it. Once my name’s cleared ... if you 
wanted a ... a different home ...” 

Some sort of explosion took place in the pit of Harry’s 
stomach. 

“What — live with you?” he said, accidentally cracking 
his head on a bit of rock protruding from the ceiling. 
“Leave the Dursleys?” 

“Of course, I thought you wouldn’t want to,” said 
Black quickly. “I understand, I just thought I’d — ” 

“Are you insane?” said Harry, his voice easily as 
croaky as Black’s. “Of course I want to leave the 
Dursleys! Have you got a house? When can I move 
in?” 



Page | 423 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black turned right around to look at him; Snape’s 
head was scraping the ceiling but Black didn’t seem 
to care. 

“You want to?” he said. “You mean it?” 

“Yeah, I mean it!” said Harry. 

Black’s gaunt face broke into the first true smile 
Harry had seen upon it. The difference it made was 
startling, as though a person ten years younger were 
shining through the starved mask; for a moment, he 
was recognizable as the man who had laughed at 
Harry’s parents’ wedding. 

They did not speak again until they had reached the 
end of the tunnel. Crookshanks darted up first; he 
had evidently pressed his paw to the knot on the 
trunk, because Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron clambered 
upward without any sound of savaging branches. 

Black saw Snape up through the hole, then stood 
back for Harry and Hermione to pass. At last, all of 
them were out. 

The grounds were very dark now; the only light came 
from the distant windows of the castle. Without a 
word, they set off. Pettigrew was still wheezing and 
occasionally whimpering. Harry’s mind was buzzing. 
He was going to leave the Dursleys. He was going to 
live with Sirius Black, his parents’ best friend. ... He 
felt dazed. ... What would happen when he told the 
Dursleys he was going to live with the convict they’d 
seen on television... ! 

“One wrong move, Peter,” said Lupin threateningly 
ahead. His wand was still pointed sideways at 
Pettigrew’s chest. 



Page | 424 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Silently they tramped through the grounds, the castle 
lights growing slowly larger. Snape was still drifting 
weirdly ahead of Black, his chin bumping on his 
chest. And then — 

A cloud shifted. There were suddenly dim shadows on 
the ground. Their party was bathed in moonlight. 

Snape collided with Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron, who 
had stopped abruptly. Black froze. He flung out one 
arm to make Harry and Hermione stop. 

Harry could see Lupin’s silhouette. He had gone rigid. 
Then his limbs began to shake. 

“Oh, my — ” Hermione gasped. “He didn’t take his 
potion tonight! He’s not safe!” 

“Run,” Black whispered. “Run. Now.” 

But Harry couldn’t run. Ron was chained to Pettigrew 
and Lupin. He leapt forward but Black caught him 
around the chest and threw him back. 

“Leave it to me — RUN!” 

There was a terrible snarling noise. Lupin’s head was 
lengthening. So was his body. His shoulders were 
hunching. Hair was sprouting visibly on his face and 
hands, which were curling into clawed paws. 
Crookshanks’s hair was on end again; he was backing 
away — 

As the werewolf reared, snapping its long jaws, Sirius 
disappeared from Harry’s side. He had transformed. 
The enormous, bearlike dog bounded forward. As the 
werewolf wrenched itself free of the manacle binding 
it, the dog seized it about the neck and pulled it 



Page | 425 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




backward, away from Ron and Pettigrew. They were 
locked, jaw to jaw, claws ripping at each other — 

Harry stood, transfixed by the sight, too intent upon 
the battle to notice anything else. It was Hermione’s 
scream that alerted him — 

Pettigrew had dived for Lupin’s dropped wand. Ron, 
unsteady on his bandaged leg, fell. There was a bang, 
a burst of light — and Ron lay motionless on the 
ground. Another bang — Crookshanks flew into the 
air and back to the earth in a heap. 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ Harry yelled, pointing his own wand 
at Pettigrew; Lupin’s wand flew high into the air and 
out of sight. “Stay where you are!” Harry shouted, 
running forward. 

Too late. Pettigrew had transformed. Harry saw his 
bald tail whip through the manacle on Ron’s 
outstretched arm and heard a scurrying through the 
grass. 

There was a howl and a rumbling growl; Harry turned 
to see the werewolf taking flight; it was galloping into 
the forest — 

“Sirius, he’s gone, Pettigrew transformed!” Harry 
yelled. 

Black was bleeding; there were gashes across his 
muzzle and back, but at Harry’s words he scrambled 
up again, and in an instant, the sound of his paws 
faded to silence as he pounded away across the 
grounds. 

Harry and Hermione dashed over to Ron. 



Page | 426 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What did he do to him?” Hermione whispered. Ron’s 
eyes were only half-closed, his mouth hung open; he 
was definitely alive, they could hear him breathing, 
but he didn’t seem to recognize them. 

“I don’t know. ...” 

Harry looked desperately around. Black and Lupin 
both gone . . . they had no one but Snape for company, 
still hanging, unconscious, in midair. 

“We’d better get them up to the castle and tell 
someone,” said Harry, pushing his hair out of his 
eyes, trying to think straight. Come — ” 

But then, from beyond the range of their vision, they 
heard a yelping, a whining: a dog in pain. ... 

“Sirius,” Harry muttered, staring into the darkness. 

He had a moment’s indecision, but there was nothing 
they could do for Ron at the moment, and by the 
sound of it, Black was in trouble — 

Harry set off at a run, Hermione right behind him. 

The yelping seemed to be coming from the ground 
near the edge of the lake. They pelted toward it, and 
Harry, running flat out, felt the cold without realizing 
what it must mean — 

The yelping stopped abruptly. As they reached the 
lakeshore, they saw why — Sirius had turned back 
into a man. He was crouched on all fours, his hands 
over his head. 

“iVooo,” he moaned. “Noooo ... please. ...” 

And then Harry saw them. Dementors, at least a 
hundred of them, gliding in a black mass around the 

Page | 427 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




lake toward them. He spun around, the familiar, icy 
cold penetrating his insides, fog starting to obscure 
his vision; more were appearing out of the darkness 
on every side; they were encircling them. ... 

“Hermione, think of something happy!” Harry yelled, 
raising his wand, blinking furiously to try and clear 
his vision, shaking his head to rid it of the faint 
screaming that had started inside it — 

I’m going to live with my godfather. I’m leaving the 
Dursleys. 

He forced himself to think of Black, and only Black, 
and began to chant: “Expecto patronum). Expecto 
patronum).” 

Black gave a shudder, rolled over, and lay motionless 
on the ground, pale as death. 

Hell be all right. I’m going to go and live with him. 

“Expecto patronum). Hermione, help me! Expecto 
patronum).” 

“Expecto — ” Hermione whispered, “expecto — expecto 



But she couldn’t do it. The dementors were closing in, 
barely ten feet from them. They formed a solid wall 
around Harry and Hermione, and were getting closer. 



“EXPECTO PATRONUM” Harry yelled, trying to blot 
the screaming from his ears. “EXPECTO PATRONUM.” 

A thin wisp of silver escaped his wand and hovered 
like mist before him. At the same moment, Harry felt 



Page | 428 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione collapse next to him. He was alone ... 
completely alone. ... 

“Expecto — expecto patronum — ” 

Harry felt his knees hit the cold grass. Fog was 
clouding his eyes. With a huge effort, he fought to 
remember — Sirius was innocent — innocent — We’ll 
be okay — I’m going to live with him — 

“ Expecto patronum J” he gasped. 

By the feeble light of his formless Patronus, he saw a 
dementor halt, very close to him. It couldn’t walk 
through the cloud of silver mist Harry had conjured. 

A dead, slimy hand slid out from under the cloak. It 
made a gesture as though to sweep the Patronus 
aside. 

“No — no — ” Harry gasped. “He’s innocent ... expecto 
— expecto patronum — ” 

He could feel them watching him, hear their rattling 
breath like an evil wind around him. The nearest 
dementor seemed to be considering him. Then it 
raised both its rotting hands — and lowered its hood. 

Where there should have been eyes, there was only 
thin, gray scabbed skin, stretched blankly over empty 
sockets. But there was a mouth ... a gaping, 
shapeless hole, sucking the air with the sound of a 
death rattle. 

A paralyzing terror filled Harry so that he couldn’t 
move or speak. His Patronus flickered and died. 

White fog was blinding him. He had to fight ... expecto 
patronum ... he couldn’t see ... and in the distance, he 
heard the familiar screaming . . . expecto patronum . . . 

Page | 429 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




he groped in the mist for Sirius, and found his arm ... 
they weren’t going to take him. ... 

But a pair of strong, clammy hands suddenly 
attached themselves around Harry’s neck. They were 
forcing his face upward. ... He could feel its breath. ... 
It was going to get rid of him first. ... He could feel its 
putrid breath. . . . His mother was screaming in his 
ears. ... She was going to be the last thing he ever 
heard — 

And then, through the fog that was drowning him, he 
thought he saw a silvery light growing brighter and 
brighter. ... He felt himself fall forward onto the grass. 
... Facedown, too weak to move, sick and shaking, 
Harry opened his eyes. The dementor must have 
released him. The blinding light was illuminating the 
grass around him. ... The screaming had stopped, the 
cold was ebbing away. . . . 

Something was driving the dementors back. ... It was 
circling around him and Black and Hermione. ... They 
were leaving. ... The air was warm again. ... 

With every ounce of strength he could muster, Harry 
raised his head a few inches and saw an animal amid 
the light, galloping away across the lake. ... Eyes 
blurred with sweat, Harry tried to make out what it 
was. ... It was as bright as a unicorn. ... Fighting to 
stay conscious, Harry watched it canter to a halt as it 
reached the opposite shore. For a moment, Harry 
saw, by its brightness, somebody welcoming it back 
. . . raising his hand to pat it . . . someone who looked 
strangely familiar ... but it couldn’t be ... 

Harry didn’t understand. He couldn’t think anymore. 
He felt the last of his strength leave him, and his head 
hit the ground as he fainted. 



Page | 430 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 





HERMIONE’S SECRET 

“Shocking business ... shocking ... miracle none of 
them died . . . never heard the like ... by thunder, it 
was lucky you were there, Snape. ...” 

“Thank you, Minister.” 

“Order of Merlin, Second Class, I’d say. First Class, if 
I can wangle it!” 

“Thank you very much indeed, Minister.” 

“Nasty cut you’ve got there. ... Black’s work, I 
suppose?” 

“As a matter of fact, it was Potter, Weasley, and 
Granger, Minister. ...” 

“iVo!” 

“Black had bewitched them, I saw it immediately. A 
