“One of the champions,” Harry corrected him. 

Hagrid’s beetle-black eyes looked very anxious under 
his wild eyebrows. 

“No idea who put yeh in fer it, Harry?” 

“You believe I didn’t do it, then?” said Harry, 
concealing with difficulty the rush of gratitude he felt 
at Hagrid’s words. 

“ ’Course I do,” Hagrid grunted. “Yeh say it wasn’ you, 
an’ I believe yeh — an’ Dumbledore believes yer, an’ 
all.” 

“Wish I knew who did do it,” said Harry bitterly. 

The pair of them looked out over the lawn; the class 
was widely scattered now, and all in great difficulty. 
The skrewts were now over three feet long, and 
extremely powerful. No longer shell-less and colorless, 
they had developed a kind of thick, grayish, shiny 
armor. They looked like a cross between giant 
scorpions and elongated crabs — but still without 
recognizable heads or eyes. They had become 
immensely strong and very hard to control. 



Page | 326 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Look like they’re havin’ fun, don’ they?” Hagrid said 
happily. Harry assumed he was talking about the 
skrewts, because his classmates certainly weren’t; 
every now and then, with an alarming bang, one of 
the skrewts’ ends would explode, causing it to shoot 
forward several yards, and more than one person was 
being dragged along on their stomach, trying 
desperately to get back on their feet. 

“Ah, I don’ know, Harry,” Hagrid sighed suddenly, 
looking back down at him with a worried expression 
on his face. “School champion ... everythin’ seems ter 
happen ter you, doesn’ it?” 

Harry didn’t answer. Yes, everything did seem to 
happen to him ... that was more or less what 
Hermione had said as they had walked around the 
lake, and that was the reason, according to her, that 
Ron was no longer talking to him. 

The next few days were some of Harry’s worst at 
Hogwarts. The closest he had ever come to feeling like 
this had been during those months, in his second 
year, when a large part of the school had suspected 
him of attacking his fellow students. But Ron had 
been on his side then. He thought he could have 
coped with the rest of the school’s behavior if he could 
just have had Ron back as a friend, but he wasn’t 
going to try and persuade Ron to talk to him if Ron 
didn’t want to. Nevertheless, it was lonely with dislike 
pouring in on him from all sides. 

He could understand the Hufflepuffs’ attitude, even if 
he didn’t like it; they had their own champion to 
support. He expected nothing less than vicious 
insults from the Slytherins — he was highly 
unpopular there and always had been, because he 
had helped Gryffindor beat them so often, both at 
Quidditch and in the Inter-House Championship. But 
Page | 327 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




he had hoped the Ravenclaws might have found it in 
their hearts to support him as much as Cedric. He 
was wrong, however. Most Ravenclaws seemed to 
think that he had been desperate to earn himself a bit 
more fame by tricking the goblet into accepting his 
name. 

Then there was the fact that Cedric looked the part of 
a champion so much more than he did. Exceptionally 
handsome, with his straight nose, dark hair, and gray 
eyes, it was hard to say who was receiving more 
admiration these days, Cedric or Viktor Krum. Harry 
actually saw the same sixth-year girls who had been 
so keen to get Krum’s autograph begging Cedric to 
sign their school bags one lunchtime. 

Meanwhile there was no reply from Sirius, Hedwig 
was refusing to come anywhere near him, Professor 
Trelawney was predicting his death with even more 
certainty than usual, and he did so badly at 
Summoning Charms in Professor Flitwick’s class that 
he was given extra homework — the only person to 
get any, apart from Neville. 

“It’s really not that difficult, Harry,” Hermione tried to 
reassure him as they left Flitwick’s class — she had 
been making objects zoom across the room to her all 
lesson, as though she were some sort of weird magnet 
for board dusters, wastepaper baskets, and 
lunascopes. “You just weren’t concentrating properly 



“Wonder why that was,” said Harry darkly as Cedric 
Diggory walked past, surrounded by a large group of 
simpering girls, all of whom looked at Harry as 
though he were a particularly large Blast-Ended 
Skrewt. “Still — never mind, eh? Double Potions to 
look forward to this afternoon. ...” 



Page | 328 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Double Potions was always a horrible experience, but 
these days it was nothing short of torture. Being shut 
in a dungeon for an hour and a half with Snape and 
the Slytherins, all of whom seemed determined to 
punish Harry as much as possible for daring to 
become school champion, was about the most 
unpleasant thing Harry could imagine. He had 
already struggled through one Friday’s worth, with 
Hermione sitting next to him intoning “ignore them, 
ignore them, ignore them” under her breath, and he 
couldn’t see why today should be any better. 

When he and Hermione arrived at Snape ’s dungeon 
after lunch, they found the Slytherins waiting outside, 
each and every one of them wearing a large badge on 
the front of his or her robes. For one wild moment 
Harry thought they were S.P.E.W. badges — then he 
saw that they all bore the same message, in luminous 
red letters that burnt brightly in the dimly lit 
underground passage: 

Support CEDRIC DIGGORY — 

The REAL Hogwarts Champion 

“Like them, Potter?” said Malfoy loudly as Harry 
approached. “And this isn’t all they do — look!” 

He pressed his badge into his chest, and the message 
upon it vanished, to be replaced by another one, 
which glowed green: 

POTTER STINKS 

The Slytherins howled with laughter. Each of them 
pressed their badges too, until the message POTTER 
STINKS was shining brightly all around Harry. He felt 
the heat rise in his face and neck. 



Page | 329 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh very funny,” Hermione said sarcastically to Pansy 
Parkinson and her gang of Slytherin girls, who were 
laughing harder than anyone, “really witty.” 

Ron was standing against the wall with Dean and 
Seamus. He wasn’t laughing, but he wasn’t sticking 
up for Harry either. 

“Want one, Granger?” said Malfoy, holding out a 
badge to Hermione. “I’ve got loads. But don’t touch 
my hand, now. I’ve just washed it, you see; don’t want 
a Mudblood sliming it up.” 

Some of the anger Harry had been feeling for days 
and days seemed to burst through a dam in his chest. 
He had reached for his wand before he’d thought 
what he was doing. People all around them scrambled 
out of the way, backing down the corridor. 

“Harry!” Hermione said warningly. 

“Go on, then, Potter,” Malfoy said quietly, drawing out 
his own wand. “Moody’s not here to look after you 
now — do it, if you’ve got the guts — ” 

For a split second, they looked into each other’s eyes, 
then, at exactly the same time, both acted. 

“ FurnunculusV’ Harry yelled. 

“ DensaugeoV’ screamed Malfoy. 

Jets of light shot from both wands, hit each other in 
midair, and ricocheted off at angles — Harry’s hit 
Goyle in the face, and Malfoy’s hit Hermione. Goyle 
bellowed and put his hands to his nose, where great 
ugly boils were springing up — Hermione, whimpering 
in panic, was clutching her mouth. 



Page | 330 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Hermione!” 



Ron had hurried forward to see what was wrong with 
her; Harry turned and saw Ron dragging Hermione ’s 
hand away from her face. It wasn’t a pretty sight. 
Hermione ’s front teeth — already larger than average 
— were now growing at an alarming rate; she was 
looking more and more like a beaver as her teeth 
elongated, past her bottom lip, toward her chin — 
panic-stricken, she felt them and let out a terrified 
cry. 

“And what is all this noise about?” said a soft, deadly 
voice. 

Snape had arrived. The Slytherins clamored to give 
their explanations; Snape pointed a long yellow finger 
at Malfoy and said, “Explain.” 

“Potter attacked me, sir — ” 

“We attacked each other at the same time!” Harry 
shouted. 

“ — and he hit Goyle — look — ” 

Snape examined Goyle, whose face now resembled 
something that would have been at home in a book 
on poisonous fungi. 

“Hospital wing, Goyle,” Snape said calmly. 

“Malfoy got Hermione!” Ron said. “Loo/d” 

He forced Hermione to show Snape her teeth — she 
was doing her best to hide them with her hands, 
though this was difficult as they had now grown down 
past her collar. Pansy Parkinson and the other 



Page | 331 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Slytherin girls were doubled up with silent giggles, 
pointing at Hermione from behind Snape ’s back. 

Snape looked coldly at Hermione, then said, “I see no 
difference.” 

Hermione let out a whimper; her eyes filled with tears, 
she turned on her heel and ran, ran all the way up 
the corridor and out of sight. 

It was lucky, perhaps, that both Harry and Ron 
started shouting at Snape at the same time; lucky 
their voices echoed so much in the stone corridor, for 
in the confused din, it was impossible for him to hear 
exactly what they were calling him. He got the gist, 
however. 

“Let’s see,” he said, in his silkiest voice. “Fifty points 
from Gryffindor and a detention each for Potter and 
Weasley. Now get inside, or it’ll be a week’s worth of 
detentions.” 

Harry’s ears were ringing. The injustice of it made 
him want to curse Snape into a thousand slimy 
pieces. He passed Snape, walked with Ron to the 
back of the dungeon, and slammed his bag down onto 
the table. Ron was shaking with anger too — for a 
moment, it felt as though everything was back to 
normal between them, but then Ron turned and sat 
down with Dean and Seamus instead, leaving Harry 
alone at his table. On the other side of the dungeon, 
Malfoy turned his back on Snape and pressed his 
badge, smirking. POTTER STINKS flashed once more 
across the room. 

Harry sat there staring at Snape as the lesson began, 
picturing horrific things happening to him. ... If only 
he knew how to do the Cruciatus Curse ... he’d have 



Page | 332 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Snape flat on his back like that spider, jerking and 
twitching. ... 

“Antidotes!” said Snape, looking around at them all, 
his cold black eyes glittering unpleasantly. “You 
should all have prepared your recipes now. I want you 
to brew them carefully, and then, we will be selecting 
someone on whom to test one. ...” 

Snape’s eyes met Harry’s, and Harry knew what was 
coming. Snape was going to poison him. Harry 
imagined picking up his cauldron, and sprinting to 
the front of the class, and bringing it down on Snape’s 
greasy head — 

And then a knock on the dungeon door burst in on 
Harry’s thoughts. 

It was Colin Creevey; he edged into the room, 
beaming at Harry, and walked up to Snape’s desk at 
the front of the room. 

“Yes?” said Snape curtly. 

“Please, sir, I’m supposed to take Harry Potter 
upstairs.” 

Snape stared down his hooked nose at Colin, whose 
smile faded from his eager face. 

“Potter has another hour of Potions to complete,” said 
Snape coldly. “He will come upstairs when this class 
is finished.” 

Colin went pink. 

“Sir — sir, Mr. Bagman wants him,” he said 
nervously. “All the champions have got to go, I think 
they want to take photographs. ...” 

Page | 333 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry would have given anything he owned to have 
stopped Colin saying those last few words. He 
chanced half a glance at Ron, but Ron was staring 
determinedly at the ceiling. 

“Very well, very well,” Snape snapped. “Potter, leave 
your things here, I want you back down here later to 
test your antidote.” 

“Please, sir — he’s got to take his things with him,” 
squeaked Colin. “All the champions — ” 

“Very well\” said Snape. “Potter — take your bag and 
get out of my sight!” 

Harry swung his bag over his shoulder, got up, and 
headed for the door. As he walked through the 
Slytherin desks, POTTER STINKS flashed at him from 
every direction. 

“It’s amazing, isn’t it, Harry?” said Colin, starting to 
speak the moment Harry had closed the dungeon 
door behind him. “Isn’t it, though? You being 
champion?” 

“Yeah, really amazing,” said Harry heavily as they set 
off toward the steps into the entrance hall. “What do 
they want photos for, Colin?” 

“The Daily Prophet, I think!” 

“Great,” said Harry dully. “Exactly what I need. More 
publicity.” 

“Good luck!” said Colin when they had reached the 
right room. Harry knocked on the door and entered. 

He was in a fairly small classroom; most of the desks 
had been pushed away to the back of the room, 

Page | 334 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




leaving a large space in the middle; three of them, 
however, had been placed end-to-end in front of the 
blackboard and covered with a long length of velvet. 
Five chairs had been set behind the velvet-covered 
desks, and Ludo Bagman was sitting in one of them, 
talking to a witch Harry had never seen before, who 
was wearing magenta robes. 

Viktor Krum was standing moodily in a corner as 
usual and not talking to anybody. Cedric and Fleur 
were in conversation. Fleur looked a good deal 
happier than Harry had seen her so far; she kept 
throwing back her head so that her long silvery hair 
caught the light. A paunchy man, holding a large 
black camera that was smoking slightly, was 
watching Fleur out of the corner of his eye. 

Bagman suddenly spotted Harry, got up quickly, and 
bounded forward. 

“Ah, here he is! Champion number four! In you come, 
Harry, in you come ... nothing to worry about, it’s just 
the wand weighing ceremony, the rest of the judges 
will be here in a moment — ” 

“Wand weighing?” Harry repeated nervously. 

“We have to check that your wands are fully 
functional, no problems, you know, as they’re your 
most important tools in the tasks ahead,” said 
Bagman. “The expert’s upstairs now with 
Dumbledore. And then there’s going to be a little 
photo shoot. This is Rita Skeeter,” he added, 
gesturing toward the witch in magenta robes. “She’s 
doing a small piece on the tournament for the Daily 
Prophet ...” 

“Maybe not that small, Ludo,” said Rita Skeeter, her 
eyes on Harry. 

Page | 335 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Her hair was set in elaborate and curiously rigid curls 
that contrasted oddly with her heavy-jawed face. She 
wore jeweled spectacles. The thick fingers clutching 
her crocodile-skin handbag ended in two-inch nails, 
painted crimson. 

“I wonder if I could have a little word with Harry 
before we start?” she said to Bagman, but still gazing 
fixedly at Harry. “The youngest champion, you know 
... to add a bit of color?” 

“Certainly!” cried Bagman. “That is — if Harry has no 
objection?” 

“Er — ” said Harry. 

“Lovely,” said Rita Skeeter, and in a second, her 
scarlet-taloned fingers had Harry’s upper arm in a 
surprisingly strong grip, and she was steering him 
out of the room again and opening a nearby door. 

“We don’t want to be in there with all that noise,” she 
said. “Let’s see ... ah, yes, this is nice and cozy.” 

It was a broom cupboard. Harry stared at her. 

“Come along, dear — that’s right — lovely,” said Rita 
Skeeter again, perching herself precariously upon an 
upturned bucket, pushing Harry down onto a 
cardboard box, and closing the door, throwing them 
into darkness. “Let’s see now ...” 

She unsnapped her crocodile-skin handbag and 
pulled out a handful of candles, which she lit with a 
wave of her wand and magicked into midair, so that 
they could see what they were doing. 

“You won’t mind, Harry, if I use a Quick-Quotes 
Quill? It leaves me free to talk to you normally. ...” 

Page | 336 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“A what?” said Harry. 



Rita Skeeter’s smile widened. Harry counted three 
gold teeth. She reached again into her crocodile bag 
and drew out a long acid-green quill and a roll of 
parchment, which she stretched out between them on 
a crate of Mrs. Skower’s All-Purpose Magical Mess 
Remover. She put the tip of the green quill into her 
mouth, sucked it for a moment with apparent relish, 
then placed it upright on the parchment, where it 
stood balanced on its point, quivering slightly. 

“Testing ... my name is Rita Skeeter, Daily Prophet 
reporter.” 

Harry looked down quickly at the quill. The moment 
Rita Skeeter had spoken, the green quill had started 
to scribble, skidding across the parchment: 

Attractive blonde Rita Skeeter, forty-three, whose 
savage quill has punctured many inflated reputations 



“Lovely,” said Rita Skeeter, yet again, and she ripped 
the top piece of parchment off, crumpled it up, and 
stuffed it into her handbag. Now she leaned toward 
Harry and said, “So, Harry ... what made you decide 
to enter the Triwizard Tournament?” 

“Er — ” said Harry again, but he was distracted by the 
quill. Even though he wasn’t speaking, it was dashing 
across the parchment, and in its wake he could make 
out a fresh sentence: 

An ugly scar, souvenir of a tragic past, disfigures the 
otherwise charming face of Harry Potter, whose eyes 



Page | 337 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Ignore the quill, Harry,” said Rita Skeeter firmly. 
Reluctantly, Harry looked up at her instead. “Now — 
why did you decide to enter the tournament, Harry?” 

“I didn’t,” said Harry. “I don’t know how my name got 
into the Goblet of Fire. I didn’t put it in there.” 

Rita Skeeter raised one heavily penciled eyebrow. 

“Come now, Harry, there’s no need to be scared of 
getting into trouble. We all know you shouldn’t really 
have entered at all. But don’t worry about that. Our 
readers love a rebel.” 

“But I didn’t enter,” Harry repeated. “I don’t know 
who — ” 

“How do you feel about the tasks ahead?” said Rita 
Skeeter. “Excited? Nervous?” 

“I haven’t really thought ... yeah, nervous, I suppose,” 
said Harry. His insides squirmed uncomfortably as he 
spoke. 

“Champions have died in the past, haven’t they?” said 
Rita Skeeter briskly. “Have you thought about that at 
all?” 

“Well ... they say it’s going to be a lot safer this year,” 
said Harry. 

The quill whizzed across the parchment between 
them, back and forward as though it were skating. 

“Of course, you’ve looked death in the face before, 
haven’t you?” said Rita Skeeter, watching him closely. 
“How would you say that’s affected you?” 

“Er,” said Harry, yet again. 

Page | 338 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Do you think that the trauma in your past might 
have made you keen to prove yourself? To live up to 
your name? Do you think that perhaps you were 
tempted to enter the Triwizard Tournament because 



“I didn’t enter,” said Harry, starting to feel irritated. 

“Can you remember your parents at all?” said Rita 
Skeeter, talking over him. 

“No,” said Harry. 

“How do you think they’d feel if they knew you were 
competing in the Triwizard Tournament? Proud? 
Worried? Angry?” 

Harry was feeling really annoyed now. How on earth 
was he to know how his parents would feel if they 
were alive? He could feel Rita Skeeter watching him 
very intently. Frowning, he avoided her gaze and 
looked down at words the quill had just written: 

Tears fill those startling green eyes as our 
conversation turns to the parents he can barely 
remember. 

“I have NOT got tears in my eyes!” said Harry loudly. 

Before Rita Skeeter could say a word, the door of the 
broom cupboard was pulled open. Harry looked 
around, blinking in the bright light. Albus 
Dumbledore stood there, looking down at both of 
them, squashed into the cupboard. 

“ Dumbledorel” cried Rita Skeeter, with every 
appearance of delight — but Harry noticed that her 
quill and the parchment had suddenly vanished from 
the box of Magical Mess Remover, and Rita’s clawed 

Page | 339 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




fingers were hastily snapping shut the clasp of her 
crocodile-skin bag. “How are you?” she said, standing 
up and holding out one of her large, mannish hands 
to Dumbledore. “I hope you saw my piece over the 
summer about the International Confederation of 
Wizards’ Conference?” 

“Enchantingly nasty,” said Dumbledore, his eyes 
twinkling. “I particularly enjoyed your description of 
me as an obsolete dingbat.” 

Rita Skeeter didn’t look remotely abashed. 

“I was just making the point that some of your ideas 
are a little old-fashioned, Dumbledore, and that many 
wizards in the street — ” 

“I will be delighted to hear the reasoning behind the 
rudeness, Rita,” said Dumbledore, with a courteous 
bow and a smile, “but I’m afraid we will have to 
discuss the matter later. The Weighing of the Wands 
is about to start, and it cannot take place if one of our 
champions is hidden in a broom cupboard.” 

Very glad to get away from Rita Skeeter, Harry 
hurried back into the room. The other champions 
were now sitting in chairs near the door, and he sat 
down quickly next to Cedric, looking up at the velvet- 
covered table, where four of the five judges were now 
sitting — Professor Karkaroff, Madame Maxime, Mr. 
Crouch, and Ludo Bagman. Rita Skeeter settled 
herself down in a corner; Harry saw her slip the 
parchment out of her bag again, spread it on her 
knee, suck the end of the Quick-Quotes Quill, and 
place it once more on the parchment. 

“May I introduce Mr. Ollivander?” said Dumbledore, 
taking his place at the judges’ table and talking to the 
champions. “He will be checking your wands to 

Page | 340 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




ensure that they are in good condition before the 
tournament.” 

Harry looked around, and with a jolt of surprise saw 
an old wizard with large, pale eyes standing quietly by 
the window. Harry had met Mr. Ollivander before — 
he was the wand-maker from whom Harry had 
bought his own wand over three years ago in Diagon 
Alley. 

“Mademoiselle Delacour, could we have you first, 
please?” said Mr. Ollivander, stepping into the empty 
space in the middle of the room. 

Fleur Delacour swept over to Mr. Ollivander and 
handed him her wand. 

“Hmmm ...” he said. 

He twirled the wand between his long fingers like a 
baton and it emitted a number of pink and gold 
sparks. Then he held it close to his eyes and 
examined it carefully. 

“Yes,” he said quietly, “nine and a half inches ... 
inflexible . . . rosewood . . . and containing . . . dear me 



“An ’air from ze ’ead of a veela,” said Fleur. “One of 
my grandmuzzer’s.” 

So Fleur was part veela, thought Harry, making a 
mental note to tell Ron . . . then he remembered that 
Ron wasn’t speaking to him. 

“Yes,” said Mr. Ollivander, “yes, I’ve never used veela 
hair myself, of course. I find it makes for rather 
temperamental wands . . . however, to each his own, 
and if this suits you ...” 

Page | 341 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mr. Ollivander ran his fingers along the wand, 
apparently checking for scratches or bumps; then he 
muttered, “ OrchideousV’ and a bunch of flowers burst 
from the wand tip. 

“Very well, very well, it’s in fine working order,” said 
Mr. Ollivander, scooping up the flowers and handing 
them to Fleur with her wand. “Mr. Diggory, you next.” 

Fleur glided back to her seat, smiling at Cedric as he 
passed her. 

“Ah, now, this is one of mine, isn’t it?” said Mr. 
Ollivander, with much more enthusiasm, as Cedric 
handed over his wand. “Yes, I remember it well. 
Containing a single hair from the tail of a particularly 
fine male unicorn . . . must have been seventeen 
hands; nearly gored me with his horn after I plucked 
his tail. Twelve and a quarter inches ... ash ... 
pleasantly springy. It’s in fine condition. ... You treat 
it regularly?” 

“Polished it last night,” said Cedric, grinning. 

Harry looked down at his own wand. He could see 
finger marks all over it. He gathered a fistful of robe 
from his knee and tried to rub it clean surreptitiously. 
Several gold sparks shot out of the end of it. Fleur 
Delacour gave him a very patronizing look, and he 
desisted. 

Mr. Ollivander sent a stream of silver smoke rings 
across the room from the tip of Cedric’s wand, 
pronounced himself satisfied, and then said, “Mr. 
Krum, if you please.” 

Viktor Krum got up and slouched, round-shouldered 
and duck-footed, toward Mr. Ollivander. He thrust 



Page | 342 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




out his wand and stood scowling, with his hands in 
the pockets of his robes. 



“Hmm,” said Mr. Ollivander, “this is a Gregorovitch 
creation, unless I’m much mistaken? A fine wand- 
maker, though the styling is never quite what I . . . 
however ...” 

He lifted the wand and examined it minutely, turning 
it over and over before his eyes. 

“Yes . . . hornbeam and dragon heartstring?” he shot at 
Krum, who nodded. “Rather thicker than one usually 
sees . . . quite rigid . . . ten and a quarter inches . . . 

Avis'.” 

The hornbeam wand let off a blast like a gun, and a 
number of small, twittering birds flew out of the end 
and through the open window into the watery 
sunlight. 

“Good,” said Mr. Ollivander, handing Krum back his 
wand. “Which leaves ... Mr. Potter.” 

Harry got to his feet and walked past Krum to Mr. 
Ollivander. He handed over his wand. 

“Aaaah, yes,” said Mr. Ollivander, his pale eyes 
suddenly gleaming. “Yes, yes, yes. How well I 
remember.” 

Harry could remember too. He could remember it as 
though it had happened yesterday. . . 

Four summers ago, on his eleventh birthday, he had 
entered Mr. Ollivander’s shop with Hagrid to buy a 
wand. Mr. Ollivander had taken his measurements 
and then started handing him wands to try. Harry 
had waved what felt like every wand in the shop, until 
Page | 343 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




at last he had found the one that suited him — this 
one, which was made of holly, eleven inches long, and 
contained a single feather from the tail of a phoenix. 
Mr. Ollivander had been very surprised that Harry 
had been so compatible with this wand. “Curious,” he 
had said, “curious,” and not until Harry asked what 
was curious had Mr. Ollivander explained that the 
phoenix feather in Harry’s wand had come from the 
same bird that had supplied the core of Lord 
Voldemort’s. 

Harry had never shared this piece of information with 
anybody. He was very fond of his wand, and as far as 
he was concerned its relation to Voldemort’s wand 
was something it couldn’t help — rather as he 
couldn’t help being related to Aunt Petunia. However, 
he really hoped that Mr. Ollivander wasn’t about to 
tell the room about it. He had a funny feeling Rita 
Skeeter’s Quick-Quotes Quill might just explode with 
excitement if he did. 

Mr. Ollivander spent much longer examining Harry’s 
wand than anyone else’s. Eventually, however, he 
made a fountain of wine shoot out of it, and handed it 
back to Harry, announcing that it was still in perfect 
condition. 

“Thank you all,” said Dumbledore, standing up at the 
judges’ table. “You may go back to your lessons now 
— or perhaps it would be quicker just to go down to 
dinner, as they are about to end — ” 

Feeling that at last something had gone right today, 
Harry got up to leave, but the man with the black 
camera jumped up and cleared his throat. 

“Photos, Dumbledore, photos!” cried Bagman 
excitedly. “All the judges and champions, what do you 
think, Rita?” 

Page | 344 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — yes, let’s do those first,” said Rita Skeeter, 
whose eyes were upon Harry again. “And then 
perhaps some individual shots.” 

The photographs took a long time. Madame Maxime 
cast everyone else into shadow wherever she stood, 
and the photographer couldn’t stand far enough back 
to get her into the frame; eventually she had to sit 
while everyone else stood around her. Karkaroff kept 
twirling his goatee around his finger to give it an extra 
curl; Krum, whom Harry would have thought would 
have been used to this sort of thing, skulked, half- 
hidden, at the back of the group. The photographer 
seemed keenest to get Fleur at the front, but Rita 
Skeeter kept hurrying forward and dragging Harry 
into greater prominence. Then she insisted on 
separate shots of all the champions. At last, they were 
free to go. 

Harry went down to dinner. Hermione wasn’t there — 
he supposed she was still in the hospital wing having 
her teeth fixed. He ate alone at the end of the table, 
then returned to Gryffindor Tower, thinking of all the 
extra work on Summoning Charms that he had to do. 
Up in the dormitory, he came across Ron. 

“You’ve had an owl,” said Ron brusquely the moment 
he walked in. He was pointing at Harry’s pillow. The 
school barn owl was waiting for him there. 

“Oh — right,” said Harry. 

“And we’ve got to do our detentions tomorrow night, 
Snape’s dungeon,” said Ron. 

He then walked straight out of the room, not looking 
at Harry. For a moment, Harry considered going after 
him — he wasn’t sure whether he wanted to talk to 
him or hit him, both seemed quite appealing — but 

Page | 345 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the lure of Sirius’s answer was too strong. Harry 
strode over to the barn owl, took the letter off its leg, 
and unrolled it. 

Harry — 

I can’t say everything I would like to in a letter, it’s too 
risky in case the owl is intercepted — we need to talk 
face-to-face. Can you ensure that you are alone by the 
fire in Gryffindor Tower at one o’clock in the morning 
on the 22nd of November? 

I know better than anyone that you can look after 
yourself and while you’re around Dumbledore and 
Moody I don’t think anyone will be able to hurt you. 
However, someone seems to be having a good try. 
Entering you in that tournament would have been very 
risky, especially right under Dumbledore’ s nose. 

Be on the watch, Harry. I still want to hear about 
anything unusual. Let me know about the 22nd of 
November as quickly as you can. 

Sirius 



Page | 346 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 








THE HUNGARIAN HORNTAIL 

The prospect of talking face-to-face with Sirius was all 
that sustained Harry over the next fortnight, the only 
bright spot on a horizon that had never looked 
darker. The shock of finding himself school champion 
had worn off slightly now, and the fear of what was 
facing him had started to sink in. The first task was 
drawing steadily nearer; he felt as though it were 
crouching ahead of him like some horrific monster, 
barring his path. He had never suffered nerves like 
these; they were way beyond anything he had 
experienced before a Quidditch match, not even his 
last one against Slytherin, which had decided who 
would win the Quidditch Cup. Harry was finding it 
hard to think about the future at all; he felt as though 
his whole life had been leading up to, and would 
finish with, the first task. ... 

Admittedly, he didn’t see how Sirius was going to 
make him feel any better about having to perform an 
unknown piece of difficult and dangerous magic in 
front of hundreds of people, but the mere sight of a 
friendly face would be something at the moment. 

