


“What the things are, you mean,” said Dumbledore. “I 
doubt very much that there is only one of them. Shall 
we walk on?” 

“Professor?” 

“Yes, Harry?” 

“Do you think we’re going to have to go into the lake?” 

“Into it? Only if we are very unfortunate.” 

“You don’t think the Horcrux is at the bottom?” 

“Oh no ... I think the Horcrux is in the middle.” 

And Dumbledore pointed toward the misty green light 
in the center of the lake. 

“So we’re going to have to cross the lake to get to it?” 
“Yes, I think so.” 

Harry did not say anything. His thoughts were all of 
water monsters, of giant serpents, of demons, kelpies, 
and sprites. ... 

“Aha,” said Dumbledore, and he stopped again; this 
time, Harry really did walk into him; for a moment he 
toppled on the edge of the dark water, and 
Dumbledore’s uninjured hand closed tightly around 
his upper arm, pulling him back. “So sorry, Harry, I 
should have given warning. Stand back against the 
wall, please; I think I have found the place.” 



Page | 632 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had no idea what Dumbledore meant; this 
patch of dark bank was exactly like every other bit as 
far as he could tell, but Dumbledore seemed to have 
detected something special about it. This time he was 
running his hand, not over the rocky wall, but 
through the thin air, as though expecting to find and 
grip something invisible. 

“Oho,” said Dumbledore happily, seconds later. His 
hand had closed in midair upon something Harry 
could not see. Dumbledore moved closer to the water; 
Harry watched nervously as the tips of Dumbledore ’s 
buckled shoes found the utmost edge of the rock rim. 
Keeping his hand clenched in midair, Dumbledore 
raised his wand with the other and tapped his fist 
with the point. 

Immediately a thick coppery green chain appeared 
out of thin air, extending from the depths of the water 
into Dumbledore ’s clenched hand. Dumbledore 
tapped the chain, which began to slide through his 
fist like a snake, coiling itself on the ground with a 
clinking sound that echoed noisily off the rocky walls, 
pulling something from the depths of the black water. 
Harry gasped as the ghostly prow of a tiny boat broke 
the surface, glowing as green as the chain, and 
floated, with barely a ripple, toward the place on the 
bank where Harry and Dumbledore stood. 

“How did you know that was there?” Harry asked in 
astonishment. 

“Magic always leaves traces,” said Dumbledore, as the 
boat hit the bank with a gentle bump, “sometimes 
very distinctive traces. I taught Tom Riddle. I know 
his style.” 

“Is ... is this boat safe?” 



Page | 633 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh yes, I think so. Voldemort needed to create a 
means to cross the lake without attracting the wrath 
of those creatures he had placed within it in case he 
ever wanted to visit or remove his Horcrux.” 

“So the things in the water won’t do anything to us if 
we cross in Voldemort’s boat?” 

“I think we must resign ourselves to the fact that they 
will, at some point, realize we are not Lord Voldemort. 
Thus far, however, we have done well. They have 
allowed us to raise the boat.” 

“But why have they let us?” asked Harry, who could 
not shake off the vision of tentacles rising out of the 
dark water the moment they were out of sight of the 
bank. 

“Voldemort would have been reasonably confident 
that none but a very great wizard would have been 
able to find the boat,” said Dumbledore. “I think he 
would have been prepared to risk what was, to his 
mind, the most unlikely possibility that somebody 
else would find it, knowing that he had set other 
obstacles ahead that only he would be able to 
penetrate. We shall see whether he is right.” 

Harry looked down into the boat. It really was very 
small. 

“It doesn’t look like it was built for two people. Will it 
hold both of us? Will we be too heavy together?” 

Dumbledore chuckled. 

“Voldemort will not have cared about the weight, but 
about the amount of magical power that crossed his 
lake. I rather think an enchantment will have been 



Page | 634 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




placed upon this boat so that only one wizard at a 
time will be able to sail in it.” 



“But then — ?” 

“I do not think you will count, Harry: You are 
underage and unqualified. Voldemort would never 
have expected a sixteen-year-old to reach this place: I 
think it unlikely that your powers will register 
compared to mine.” 

These words did nothing to raise Harry’s morale; 
perhaps Dumbledore knew it, for he added, 
“Voldemort’s mistake, Harry, Voldemort’s mistake ... 
Age is foolish and forgetful when it underestimates 
youth. ... Now, you first this time, and be careful not 
to touch the water.” 

Dumbledore stood aside and Harry climbed carefully 
into the boat. Dumbledore stepped in too, coiling the 
chain onto the floor. They were crammed in together; 
Harry could not comfortably sit, but crouched, his 
knees jutting over the edge of the boat, which began 
to move at once. There was no sound other than the 
silken rustle of the boat’s prow cleaving the water; it 
moved without their help, as though an invisible rope 
was pulling it onward toward the light in the center. 
Soon they could no longer see the walls of the cavern; 
they might have been at sea except that there were no 
waves. 

Harry looked down and saw the reflected gold of his 
wandlight sparkling and glittering on the black water 
as they passed. The boat was carving deep ripples 
upon the glassy surface, grooves in the dark mirror. 



And then Harry saw it, marble white, floating inches 
below the surface. 

Page | 635 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor!” he said, and his startled voice echoed 
loudly over the silent water. 



“Harry?” 

“I think I saw a hand in the water — a human hand!” 

“Yes, I am sure you did,” said Dumbledore calmly. 

Harry stared down into the water, looking for the 
vanished hand, and a sick feeling rose in his throat. 

“So that thing that jumped out of the water — ?” 

But Harry had his answer before Dumbledore could 
reply; the wandlight had slid over a fresh patch of 
water and showed him, this time, a dead man lying 
faceup inches beneath the surface, his open eyes 
misted as though with cobwebs, his hair and his 
robes swirling around him like smoke. 

“There are bodies in here!” said Harry, and his voice 
sounded much higher than usual and most unlike his 
own. 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore placidly, “but we do not need 
to worry about them at the moment.” 

“At the moment?” Harry repeated, tearing his gaze 
from the water to look at Dumbledore. 

“Not while they are merely drifting peacefully below 
us,” said Dumbledore. “There is nothing to be feared 
from a body, Harry, any more than there is anything 
to be feared from the darkness. Lord Voldemort, who 
of course secretly fears both, disagrees. But once 
again he reveals his own lack of wisdom. It is the 
unknown we fear when we look upon death and 
darkness, nothing more.” 

Page | 636 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry said nothing; he did not want to argue, but he 
found the idea that there were bodies floating around 
them and beneath them horrible and, what was more, 
he did not believe that they were not dangerous. 

“But one of them jumped,” he said, trying to make his 
voice as level and calm as Dumbledore ’s. “When I 
tried to Summon the Horcrux, a body leapt out of the 
lake.” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “I am sure that once we take 
the Horcrux, we shall find them less peaceable. 
However, like many creatures that dwell in cold and 
darkness, they fear light and warmth, which we shall 
therefore call to our aid should the need arise. Fire, 
Harry,” Dumbledore added with a smile, in response 
to Harry’s bewildered expression. 

“Oh ... right ...” said Harry quickly. He turned his 
head to look at the greenish glow toward which the 
boat was still inexorably sailing. He could not pretend 
now that he was not scared. The great black lake, 
teeming with the dead ... It seemed hours and hours 
ago that he had met Professor Trelawney, that he had 
given Ron and Hermione Felix Felicis. ... He suddenly 
wished he had said a better good-bye to them . . . and 
he hadn’t seen Ginny at all. ... 

“Nearly there,” said Dumbledore cheerfully. 

Sure enough, the greenish light seemed to be growing 
larger at last, and within minutes, the boat had come 
to a halt, bumping gently into something that Harry 
could not see at first, but when he raised his 
illuminated wand he saw that they had reached a 
small island of smooth rock in the center of the lake. 



“Careful not to touch the water,” said Dumbledore 
again as Harry climbed out of the boat. 

Page | 637 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




The island was no larger than Dumbledore ’s office, an 
expanse of flat dark stone on which stood nothing but 
the source of that greenish light, which looked much 
brighter when viewed close to. Harry squinted at it; at 
first, he thought it was a lamp of some kind, but then 
he saw that the light was coming from a stone basin 
rather like the Pensieve, which was set on top of a 
pedestal. 

Dumbledore approached the basin and Harry 
followed. Side by side, they looked down into it. The 
basin was full of an emerald liquid emitting that 
phosphorescent glow. 

“What is it?” asked Harry quietly. 

“I am not sure,” said Dumbledore. “Something more 
worrisome than blood and bodies, however.” 

Dumbledore pushed back the sleeve of his robe over 
his blackened hand, and stretched out the tips of his 
burned fingers toward the surface of the potion. 

“Sir, no, don’t touch — !” 

“I cannot touch,” said Dumbledore, smiling faintly. 
“See? I cannot approach any nearer than this. You 
try.” 

Staring, Harry put his hand into the basin and 
attempted to touch the potion. He met an invisible 
barrier that prevented him coming within an inch of 
it. No matter how hard he pushed, his fingers 
encountered nothing but what seemed to be solid and 
inflexible air. 

“Out of the way, please, Harry,” said Dumbledore. He 
raised his wand and made complicated movements 
over the surface of the potion, murmuring 

Page | 638 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




soundlessly. Nothing happened, except perhaps that 
the potion glowed a little brighter. Harry remained 
silent while Dumbledore worked, but after a while 
Dumbledore withdrew his wand, and Harry felt it was 
safe to talk again. 

“You think the Horcrux is in there, sir?” 

“Oh yes.” Dumbledore peered more closely into the 
basin. Harry saw his face reflected, upside down, in 
the smooth surface of the green potion. “But how to 
reach it? This potion cannot be penetrated by hand, 
Vanished, parted, scooped up, or siphoned away, nor 
can it be Transfigured, Charmed, or otherwise made 
to change its nature.” 

Almost absentmindedly, Dumbledore raised his wand 
again, twirled it once in midair, and then caught the 
crystal goblet that he had conjured out of nowhere. 

“I can only conclude that this potion is supposed to 
be drunk.” 

“What?” said Harry. “No!” 

“Yes, I think so: Only by drinking it can I empty the 
basin and see what lies in its depths.” 

“But what if — what if it kills you?” 

“Oh, I doubt that it would work like that,” said 
Dumbledore easily. “Lord Voldemort would not want 
to kill the person who reached this island.” 

Harry couldn’t believe it. Was this more of 
Dumbledore ’s insane determination to see good in 
everyone? 



Page | 639 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Sir,” said Harry, trying to keep his voice reasonable, 
“sir, this is Voldemort we’re — ” 

“I’m sorry, Harry; I should have said, he would not 
want to immediately kill the person who reached this 
island,” Dumbledore corrected himself. “He would 
want to keep them alive long enough to find out how 
they managed to penetrate so far through his 
defenses and, most importantly of all, why they were 
so intent upon emptying the basin. Do not forget that 
Lord Voldemort believes that he alone knows about 
his Horcruxes.” 

Harry made to speak again, but this time Dumbledore 
raised his hand for silence, frowning slightly at the 
emerald liquid, evidently thinking hard. 

“Undoubtedly,” he said, finally, “this potion must act 
in a way that will prevent me taking the Horcrux. It 
might paralyze me, cause me to forget what I am here 
for, create so much pain I am distracted, or render me 
incapable in some other way. This being the case, 
Harry, it will be your job to make sure I keep 
drinking, even if you have to tip the potion into my 
protesting mouth. You understand?” 

Their eyes met over the basin, each pale face lit with 
that strange, green light. Harry did not speak. Was 
this why he had been invited along — so that he 
could force-feed Dumbledore a potion that might 
cause him unendurable pain? 

“You remember,” said Dumbledore, “the condition on 
which I brought you with me?” 

Harry hesitated, looking into the blue eyes that had 
turned green in the reflected light of the basin. 

“But what if — ?” 

Page | 640 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You swore, did you not, to follow any command I 
gave you?” 

“Yes, but — ” 

“I warned you, did I not, that there might be danger?” 
“Yes,” said Harry, “but — ” 

“Well, then,” said Dumbledore, shaking back his 
sleeves once more and raising the empty goblet, “you 
have my orders.” 

“Why can’t I drink the potion instead?” asked Harry 
desperately. 

“Because I am much older, much cleverer, and much 
less valuable,” said Dumbledore. “Once and for all, 
Harry, do I have your word that you will do all in your 
power to make me keep drinking?” 

“Couldn’t — ?” 

“Do I have it?” 

“But — ” 

“ Your word, Harry.” 

“I — all right, but — ” 

Before Harry could make any further protest, 
Dumbledore lowered the crystal goblet into the 
potion. For a split second, Harry hoped that he would 
not be able to touch the potion with the goblet, but 
the crystal sank into the surface as nothing else had; 
when the glass was full to the brim, Dumbledore lifted 
it to his mouth. 



Page | 641 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Your good health, Harry.” 

And he drained the goblet. Harry watched, terrified, 
his hands gripping the rim of the basin so hard that 
his fingertips were numb. 

“Professor?” he said anxiously, as Dumbledore 
lowered the empty glass. “How do you feel?” 

Dumbledore shook his head, his eyes closed. Harry 
wondered whether he was in pain. Dumbledore 
plunged the glass blindly back into the basin, refilled 
it, and drank once more. 

In silence, Dumbledore drank three gobletsful of the 
potion. Then, halfway through the fourth goblet, he 
staggered and fell forward against the basin. His eyes 
were still closed, his breathing heavy. 

“Professor Dumbledore?” said Harry, his voice 
strained. “Can you hear me?” 

Dumbledore did not answer. His face was twitching 
as though he was deeply asleep, but dreaming a 
horrible dream. His grip on the goblet was slackening; 
the potion was about to spill from it. Harry reached 
forward and grasped the crystal cup, holding it 
steady. 

“Professor, can you hear me?” he repeated loudly, his 
voice echoing around the cavern. 

Dumbledore panted and then spoke in a voice Harry 
did not recognize, for he had never heard Dumbledore 
frightened like this. 

“I don’t want ... Don’t make me ...” 



Page | 642 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared into the whitened face he knew so well, 
at the crooked nose and half-moon spectacles, and 
did not know what to do. 

"... don’t like ... want to stop ...” moaned Dumbledore. 

“You ... you can’t stop, Professor,” said Harry. “You’ve 
got to keep drinking, remember? You told me you had 
to keep drinking. Here ...” 

Hating himself, repulsed by what he was doing, Harry 
forced the goblet back toward Dumbledore ’s mouth 
and tipped it, so that Dumbledore drank the 
remainder of the potion inside. 

“No ...” he groaned, as Harry lowered the goblet back 
into the basin and refilled it for him. “I don’t want to. 
...I don’t want to. ... Let me go. ...” 

“It’s all right, Professor,” said Harry, his hand 
shaking. “It’s all right, I’m here — ” 

“Make it stop, make it stop,” moaned Dumbledore. 

“Yes ... yes, this’ll make it stop,” lied Harry. He tipped 
the contents of the goblet into Dumbledore ’s open 
mouth. 

Dumbledore screamed; the noise echoed all around 
the vast chamber, across the dead black water. 

“No, no, no, no, I can’t, I can’t, don’t make me, I don’t 
want to. ...” 

“It’s all right, Professor, it’s all right!” said Harry 
loudly, his hands shaking so badly he could hardly 
scoop up the sixth gobletful of potion; the basin was 
now half empty. “Nothing’s happening to you, you’re 



Page | 643 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




safe, it isn’t real, I swear it isn’t real — take this, now, 
take this. ...” 

And obediently, Dumbledore drank, as though it was 
an antidote Harry offered him, but upon draining the 
goblet, he sank to his knees, shaking uncontrollably. 

“It’s all my fault, all my fault,” he sobbed. “Please 
make it stop, I know I did wrong, oh please make it 
stop and I’ll never, never again ...” 

“This will make it stop, Professor,” Harry said, his 
voice cracking as he tipped the seventh glass of 
potion into Dumbledore’s mouth. 

Dumbledore began to cower as though invisible 
torturers surrounded him; his flailing hand almost 
knocked the refilled goblet from Harry’s trembling 
hands as he moaned, “Don’t hurt them, don’t hurt 
them, please, please, it’s my fault, hurt me instead ...” 

“Here, drink this, drink this, you’ll be all right,” said 
Harry desperately, and once again Dumbledore 
obeyed him, opening his mouth even as he kept his 
eyes tight shut and shook from head to foot. 

And now he fell forward, screaming again, hammering 
his fists upon the ground, while Harry filled the ninth 
goblet. 

“Please, please, please, no ... not that, not that, I’ll do 
anything ...” 

“Just drink, Professor, just drink ...” 

Dumbledore drank like a child dying of thirst, but 
when he had finished, he yelled again as though his 
insides were on fire. “No more, please, no more ...” 



Page | 644 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry scooped up a tenth gobletful of potion and felt 
the crystal scrape the bottom of the basin. 



“We’re nearly there, Professor. Drink this, drink it. ...” 

He supported Dumbledore’s shoulders and again, 
Dumbledore drained the glass; then Harry was on his 
feet once more, refilling the goblet as Dumbledore 
began to scream in more anguish than ever, “I want 
to die! I want to die! Make it stop, make it stop, I want 
to die!” 

“Drink this, Professor. Drink this. ...” 

Dumbledore drank, and no sooner had he finished 
than he yelled, “KILL ME!” 

“This — this one will!” gasped Harry. “Just drink this 
... It’ll be over ... all over!” 

Dumbledore gulped at the goblet, drained every last 
drop, and then, with a great, rattling gasp, rolled over 
onto his face. 

“No!” shouted Harry, who had stood to refill the goblet 
again; instead he dropped the cup into the basin, 
flung himself down beside Dumbledore, and heaved 
him over onto his back; Dumbledore’s glasses were 
askew, his mouth agape, his eyes closed. “No,” said 
Harry, shaking Dumbledore, “no, you’re not dead, you 
said it wasn’t poison, wake up, wake up — 
Rennervatel” he cried, his wand pointing at 
Dumbledore’s chest; there was a flash of red light but 
nothing happened. “Renneruate — sir — please — ” 

Dumbledore’s eyelids flickered; Harry’s heart leapt. 

“Sir, are you — ?” 

Page | 645 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Water,” croaked Dumbledore. 

“Water,” panted Harry. “Yes — ” 

He leapt to his feet and seized the goblet he had 
dropped in the basin; he barely registered the golden 
locket lying curled beneath it. 

“Aguamenti\” he shouted, jabbing the goblet with his 
wand. 

The goblet filled with clear water; Harry dropped to 
his knees beside Dumbledore, raised his head, and 
brought the glass to his lips — but it was empty. 
Dumbledore groaned and began to pant. 

“But I had some — wait — AguamentiV’ said Harry 
again, pointing his wand at the goblet. Once more, for 
a second, clear water gleamed within it, but as he 
approached Dumbledore ’s mouth, the water vanished 
again. 

“Sir, I’m trying, I’m trying!” said Harry desperately, 
but he did not think that Dumbledore could hear 
him; he had rolled onto his side and was drawing 
great, rattling breaths that sounded agonizing. 
“Aguamenti — Aguamenti — A GUAMENTP. ” 

The goblet filled and emptied once more. And now 
Dumbledore ’s breathing was fading. His brain 
whirling in panic, Harry knew, instinctively, the only 
way left to get water, because Voldemort had planned 
it so ... 

He flung himself over to the edge of the rock and 
plunged the goblet into the lake, bringing it up full to 
the brim of icy water that did not vanish. 



Page | 646 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Sir — here!” Harry yelled, and lunging forward, he 
tipped the water clumsily over Dumbledore’s face. 

It was the best he could do, for the icy feeling on his 
arm not holding the cup was not the lingering chill of 
the water. A slimy white hand had gripped his wrist, 
and the creature to whom it belonged was pulling 
him, slowly, backward across the rock. The surface of 
the lake was no longer mirror-smooth; it was 
churning, and everywhere Harry looked, white heads 
and hands were emerging from the dark water, men 
and women and children with sunken, sightless eyes 
were moving toward the rock: an army of the dead 
rising from the black water. 

“Petrificus Totalusl” yelled Harry, struggling to cling to 
the smooth, soaked surface of the island as he 
pointed his wand at the Inferius that had his arm: It 
released him, falling backward into the water with a 
splash; he scrambled to his feet, but many more Inferi 
were already climbing onto the rock, their bony hands 
clawing at its slippery surface, their blank, frosted 
eyes upon him, trailing waterlogged rags, sunken 
faces leering. 

“Petrificus Totalusl” Harry bellowed again, backing 
away as he swiped his wand through the air; six or 
seven of them crumpled, but more were coming 
toward him. “Impedimental Incarcerousl ” 

A few of them stumbled, one or two of them bound in 
ropes, but those climbing onto the rock behind them 
merely stepped over or on the fallen bodies. Still 
slashing at the air with his wand, Harry yelled, 

“ Sectumsempral SECTUMSEMPRAl” 

But though gashes appeared in their sodden rags and 
their icy skin, they had no blood to spill: They walked 
on, unfeeling, their shrunken hands outstretched 

Page | 647 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




toward him, and as he backed away still farther, he 
felt arms enclose him from behind, thin, fleshless 
arms cold as death, and his feet left the ground as 
they lifted him and began to carry him, slowly and 
surely, back to the water, and he knew there would 
be no release, that he would be drowned, and become 
one more dead guardian of a fragment of Voldemort’s 
shattered soul. ... 

But then, through the darkness, fire erupted: crimson 
and gold, a ring of fire that surrounded the rock so 
that the Inferi holding Harry so tightly stumbled and 
faltered; they did not dare pass through the flames to 
get to the water. They dropped Harry; he hit the 
ground, slipped on the rock, and fell, grazing his 
arms, but scrambled back up, raising his wand and 
staring around. 

Dumbledore was on his feet again, pale as any of the 
surrounding Inferi, but taller than any too, the fire 
dancing in his eyes; his wand was raised like a torch 
and from its tip emanated the flames, like a vast 
lasso, encircling them all with warmth. 

The Inferi bumped into each other, attempting, 
blindly, to escape the fire in which they were 
enclosed. ... 

Dumbledore scooped the locket from the bottom of 
the stone basin and stowed it inside his robes. 
Wordlessly, he gestured to Harry to come to his side. 
Distracted by the flames, the Inferi seemed unaware 
that their quarry was leaving as Dumbledore led 
Harry back to the boat, the ring of fire moving with 
them, around them, the bewildered Inferi 
accompanying them to the water’s edge, where they 
slipped gratefully back into their dark waters. 



Page | 648 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, who was shaking all over, thought for a 
moment that Dumbledore might not be able to climb 
into the boat; he staggered a little as he attempted it; 
all his efforts seemed to be going into maintaining the 
ring of protective flame around them. Harry seized 
him and helped him back to his seat. Once they were 
both safely jammed inside again, the boat began to 
move back across the black water, away from the 
rock, still encircled by that ring of fire, and it seemed 
that the Inferi swarming below them did not dare 
resurface. 

“Sir,” panted Harry, “sir, I forgot — about fire — they 
were coming at me and I panicked — ” 

“Quite understandable,” murmured Dumbledore. 
Harry was alarmed to hear how faint his voice was. 

They reached the bank with a little bump and Harry 
leapt out, then turned quickly to help Dumbledore. 
The moment that Dumbledore reached the bank he 
let his wand hand fall; the ring of fire vanished, but 
the Inferi did not emerge again from the water. The 
little boat sank into the water once more; clanking 
and tinkling, its chain slithered back into the lake 
too. Dumbledore gave a great sigh and leaned against 
the cavern wall. 

“I am weak. ...” he said. 

“Don’t worry, sir,” said Harry at once, anxious about 
Dumbledore ’s extreme pallor and by his air of 
exhaustion. “Don’t worry, I’ll get us back. ... Lean on 
me, sir. ...” 

And pulling Dumbledore ’s uninjured arm around his 
shoulders, Harry guided his headmaster back around 
the lake, bearing most of his weight. 



Page | 649 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“The protection was ... after all ... well-designed,” said 
Dumbledore faintly. “One alone could not have done 
it. ... You did well, very well, Harry. ...” 

“Don’t talk now,” said Harry, fearing how slurred 
Dumbledore’s voice had become, how much his feet 
dragged. “Save your energy, sir. ... We’ll soon be out 
of here. ...” 

“The archway will have sealed again. ... My knife ...” 

“There’s no need, I got cut on the rock,” said Harry 
firmly. “Just tell me where. ...” 

“Here ...” 

Harry wiped his grazed forearm upon the stone: 
Having received its tribute of blood, the archway 
reopened instantly. They crossed the outer cave, and 
Harry helped Dumbledore back into the icy seawater 
that filled the crevice in the cliff. 

“It’s going to be all right, sir,” Harry said over and 
over again, more worried by Dumbledore’s silence 
than he had been by his weakened voice. “We’re 
nearly there. ... I can Apparate us both back. ... Don’t 
worry. ...” 

“I am not worried, Harry,” said Dumbledore, his voice 
a little stronger despite the freezing water. “I am with 
you.” 



Page | 650 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






THE LIGHTNING-STRUCK TOWER 

Once back under the starry sky, Harry heaved 
Dumbledore onto the top of the nearest boulder and 
then to his feet. Sodden and shivering, Dumbledore’s 
weight still upon him, Harry concentrated harder 
than he had ever done upon his destination: 
Hogsmeade. Closing his eyes, gripping Dumbledore’s 
arm as tightly as he could, he stepped forward into 
that feeling of horrible compression. 

He knew it had worked before he opened his eyes: The 
smell of salt, the sea breeze had gone. He and 
Dumbledore were shivering and dripping in the 
middle of the dark High Street in Hogsmeade. For one 
horrible moment Harry’s imagination showed him 
more Inferi creeping toward him around the sides of 
shops, but he blinked and saw that nothing was 
stirring; all was still, the darkness complete but for a 
few streetlamps and lit upper windows. 



Page | 651 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“We did it, Professor!” Harry whispered with difficulty; 
he suddenly realized that he had a searing stitch in 
his chest. “We did it! We got the Horcrux!” 

Dumbledore staggered against him. For a moment, 
Harry thought that his inexpert Apparition had 
thrown Dumbledore off balance; then he saw his face, 
paler and damper than ever in the distant light of a 
streetlamp. 

“Sir, are you all right?” 

“I’ve been better,” said Dumbledore weakly, though 
the corners of his mouth twitched. “That potion ... 
was no health drink. ...” 

And to Harry’s horror, Dumbledore sank onto the 
ground. 

“Sir — it’s okay, sir, you’re going to be all right, don’t 
worry — ” 

He looked around desperately for help, but there was 
nobody to be seen and all he could think was that he 
must somehow get Dumbledore quickly to the 
hospital wing. 

“We need to get you up to the school, sir. ... Madam 
Pomfrey ...” 

“No,” said Dumbledore. “It is ... Professor Snape 
whom I need. ... But I do not think ... I can walk very 
far just yet. ...” 

“Right — sir, listen — I’m going to knock on a door, 
find a place you can stay — then I can run and get 
Madam — ” 



Page | 652 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Severus,” said Dumbledore clearly. “I need Severus. 



“All right then, Snape — but I’m going to have to leave 
you for a moment so I can — ” 

Before Harry could make a move, however, he heard 
running footsteps. His heart leapt: Somebody had 
seen, somebody knew they needed help — and 
looking around he saw Madam Rosmerta scurrying 
down the dark street toward them on high-heeled, 
fluffy slippers, wearing a silk dressing gown 
embroidered with dragons. 

“I saw you Apparate as I was pulling my bedroom 
curtains! Thank goodness, thank goodness, I couldn’t 
think what to — but what’s wrong with Albus?” 

She came to a halt, panting, and stared down, wide- 
eyed, at Dumbledore. 

“He’s hurt,” said Harry. “Madam Rosmerta, can he 
come into the Three Broomsticks while I go up to the 
school and get help for him?” 

“You can’t go up there alone! Don’t you realize — 
haven’t you seen — ? 

“If you help me support him,” said Harry, not 
listening to her, “I think we can get him inside — ” 

“What has happened?” asked Dumbledore. 

“Rosmerta, what’s wrong?” 

“The — the Dark Mark, Albus.” 

And she pointed into the sky, in the direction of 
Hogwarts. Dread flooded Harry at the sound of the 
words. ... He turned and looked. 

Page | 653 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




There it was, hanging in the sky above the school: the 
blazing green skull with a serpent tongue, the mark 
Death Eaters left behind whenever they had entered a 
building ... wherever they had murdered. ... 

“When did it appear?” asked Dumbledore, and his 
hand clenched painfully upon Harry’s shoulder as he 
struggled to his feet. 

“Must have been minutes ago, it wasn’t there when I 
put the cat out, but when I got upstairs — ” 

“We need to return to the castle at once,” said 
Dumbledore. “Rosmerta” — and though he staggered 
a little, he seemed wholly in command of the situation 
— “we need transport — brooms — ” 

