Their ex-Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher 
pushed open the doors and moved toward them, 
wearing a long lilac dressing gown. 



Page | 649Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, hello there!” he said. “I expect you’d like my 
autograph, would you?” 

“Hasn’t changed much, has he?” Harry muttered to 
Ginny, who grinned. 

“Er — how are you, Professor?” said Ron, sounding 
slightly guilty. It had been Ron’s malfunctioning wand 
that had damaged Professor Lockhart’s memory so 
badly that he had landed here in the first place, 
though, as Lockhart had been attempting to 
permanently wipe Harry and Ron’s memories at the 
time, Harry’s sympathy was limited. 

“I’m very well indeed, thank you!” said Lockhart 
exuberantly, pulling a rather battered peacock-feather 
quill from his pocket. “Now, how many autographs 
would you like? I can do joined-up writing now, you 
know!” 

“Er — we don’t want any at the moment, thanks,” 
said Ron, raising his eyebrows at Harry, who asked, 
“Professor, should you be wandering around the 
corridors? Shouldn’t you be in a ward?” 

The smile faded slowly from Lockhart’s face. For a few 
moments he gazed intently at Harry, then he said, 
“Haven’t we met?” 

“Er ... yeah, we have,” said Harry. “You used to teach 
us at Hogwarts, remember?” 

“Teach?” repeated Lockhart, looking faintly unsettled. 
“Me? Did I?” 

And then the smile reappeared upon his face so 
suddenly it was rather alarming. “Taught you 
everything you know, I expect, did I? Well, how about 
those autographs, then? Shall we say a round dozen, 

Page | 650Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




you can give them to all your little friends then and 
nobody will be left out!” 



But just then a head poked out of a door at the far 
end of the corridor and a voice said, “Gilderoy, you 
naughty boy, where have you wandered off to?” 

A motherly looking Healer wearing a tinsel wreath in 
her hair came bustling up the corridor, smiling 
warmly at Harry and the others. 

“Oh Gilderoy, you’ve got visitors! How lovely, and on 
Christmas Day too! Do you know, he never gets 
visitors, poor lamb, and I can’t think why, he’s such a 
sweetie, aren’t you?” 

“We’re doing autographs!” Gilderoy told the Healer 
with another glittering smile. “They want loads of 
them, won’t take no for an answer! I just hope we’ve 
got enough photographs!” 

“Listen to him,” said the Healer, taking Lockhart’s 
arm and beaming fondly at him as though he were a 
precocious two-year-old. “He was rather well known a 
few years ago; we very much hope that this liking for 
giving autographs is a sign that his memory might be 
coming back a little bit. Will you step this way? He’s 
in a closed ward, you know, he must have slipped out 
while I was bringing in the Christmas presents, the 
door’s usually kept locked ... not that he’s dangerous! 
But,” she lowered her voice to a whisper, “bit of a 
danger to himself, bless him... Doesn’t know who he 
is, you see, wanders off and can’t remember how to 
get back. . . It is nice of you to have come to see him — 



“Er,” said Ron, gesturing uselessly at the floor above, 
“actually, we were just — er — ” 

Page | 651Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But the Healer was smiling expectantly at them, and 
Ron’s feeble mutter of “going to have a cup of tea” 
trailed away into nothingness. They looked at one 
another rather hopelessly and then followed Lockhart 
and his Healer along the corridor. 

“Let’s not stay long,” Ron said quietly. 

The Healer pointed her wand at the door of the Janus 
Thickey ward and muttered “Alohomora.” The door 
swung open and she led the way inside, keeping a 
firm grasp on Gilderoy’s arm until she had settled 
him into an armchair beside his bed. 

“This is our long-term resident ward,” she informed 
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny in a low voice. “For 
permanent spell damage, you know. Of course, with 
intensive remedial potions and charms and a bit of 
luck, we can produce some improvement... Gilderoy 
does seem to be getting back some sense of himself, 
and we’ve seen a real improvement in Mr. Bode, he 
seems to be regaining the power of speech very well, 
though he isn’t speaking any language we recognize 
yet... Well, I must finish giving out the Christmas 
presents, I’ll leave you all to chat...” 

Harry looked around; this ward bore unmistakable 
signs of being a permanent home to its residents. 

They had many more personal effects around their 
beds than in Mr. Weasley’s ward; the wall around 
Gilderoy’s headboard, for instance, was papered with 
pictures of himself, all beaming toothily and waving at 
the new arrivals. He had autographed many of them 
to himself in disjointed, childish writing. The moment 
he had been deposited in his chair by the Healer, 
Gilderoy pulled a fresh stack of photographs toward 
him, seized a quill, and started signing them all 
feverishly. 



Page | 652Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You can put them in envelopes,” he said to Ginny, 
throwing the signed pictures into her lap one by one 
as he finished them. “I am not forgotten, you know, 
no, I still receive a very great deal of fan mail... Gladys 
Gudgeon writes weekly... I just wish I knew why...” 

He paused, looking faintly puzzled, then beamed 
again and returned to his signing with renewed vigor. 
“I suspect it is simply my good looks...” 

A sallow-skinned, mournful-looking wizard lay in the 
bed opposite, staring at the ceiling; he was mumbling 
to himself and seemed quite unaware of anything 
around him. Two beds along was a woman whose 
entire head was covered in fur; Harry remembered 
something similar happening to Hermione during 
their second year, although fortunately the damage, 
in her case, had not been permanent. At the far end 
of the ward flowery curtains had been drawn around 
two beds to give the occupants and their visitors some 
privacy. 

“Here you are, Agnes,” said the Healer brightly to the 
furry-faced woman, handing her a small pile of 
Christmas presents. “See, not forgotten, are you? And 
your son’s sent an owl to say he’s visiting tonight, so 
that’s nice, isn’t it?” 

Agnes gave several loud barks. 

“And look, Broderick, you’ve been sent a potted plant 
and a lovely calendar with a different fancy hippogriff 
for each month, they’ll brighten things up, won’t 
they?” said the Healer, bustling along to the 
mumbling man, setting a rather ugly plant with long, 
swaying tentacles on the bedside cabinet and fixing 
the calendar to the wall with her wand. “And — oh, 
Mrs. Longbottom, are you leaving already?” 



Page | 653Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s head spun round. The curtains had been 
drawn back from the two beds at the end of the ward 
and two visitors were walking back down the aisle 
between the beds: a formidable-looking old witch 
wearing a long green dress, a moth-eaten fox fur, and 
a pointed hat decorated with what was unmistakably 
a stuffed vulture and, trailing behind her looking 
thoroughly depressed — Neville. 

With a sudden rush of understanding, Harry realized 
who the people in the end beds must be. He cast 
around wildly for some means of distracting the 
others so that Neville could leave the ward unnoticed 
and unquestioned, but Ron had looked up at the 
sound of the name “Longbottom” too, and before 
Harry could stop him had called, “Neville\” 

Neville jumped and cowered as though a bullet had 
narrowly missed him. 

“It’s us, Neville!” said Ron brightly, getting to his feet. 
“Have you seen? Lockhart’s here! Who’ve you been 
visiting?” 

“Friends of yours, Neville, dear?” said Neville’s 
grandmother graciously, bearing down upon them all. 

Neville looked as though he would rather be anywhere 
in the world but here. A dull purple flush was 
creeping up his plump face and he was not making 
eye contact with any of them. 

“Ah, yes,” said his grandmother, looking closely at 
Harry and sticking out a shriveled, clawlike hand for 
him to shake. “Yes, yes, I know who you are, of 
course. Neville speaks most highly of you.” 



Page | 654Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — thanks,” said Harry, shaking hands. Neville did 
not look at him, but stared at his own feet, the color 
deepening in his face all the while. 

“And you two are clearly Weasleys,” Mrs. Longbottom 
continued, proffering her hand regally to Ron and 
Ginny in turn. “Yes, I know your parents — not well, 
of course — but fine people, fine people ... and you 
must be Hermione Granger?” 

Hermione looked rather startled that Mrs. 

Longbottom knew her name, but shook hands all the 
same. 

“Yes, Neville’s told me all about you. Helped him out 
of a few sticky spots, haven’t you? He’s a good boy,” 
she said, casting a sternly appraising look down her 
rather bony nose at Neville, “but he hasn’t got his 
father’s talent, I’m afraid to say...” And she jerked her 
head in the direction of the two beds at the end of the 
ward, so that the stuffed vulture on her hat trembled 
alarmingly. 

“What?” said Ron, looking amazed (Harry wanted to 
stamp on Ron’s foot, but that sort of thing was much 
harder to bring off unnoticed when you were wearing 
jeans rather than robes). “Is that your dad down the 
end, Neville?” 

“What’s this?” said Mrs. Longbottom sharply. “Haven’t 
you told your friends about your parents, Neville?” 

Neville took a deep breath, looked up at the ceiling, 
and shook his head. Harry could not remember ever 
feeling sorrier for anyone, but he could not think of 
any way of helping Neville out of the situation. 

“Well, it’s nothing to be ashamed of!” said Mrs. 
Longbottom angrily. “You should be proud, Neville, 

Page | 655Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




proud). They didn’t give their health and their sanity 
so their only son would be ashamed of them, you 
know!” 

“I’m not ashamed,” said Neville very faintly, still 
looking anywhere but at Harry and the others. Ron 
was now standing on tiptoe to look over at the 
inhabitants of the two beds. 

“Well, you’ve got a funny way of showing it!” said Mrs. 
Longbottom. “My son and his wife,” she said, turning 
haughtily to Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, “were 
tortured into insanity by You-Know- Who’s followers.” 

Hermione and Ginny both clapped their hands over 
their mouths. Ron stopped craning his neck to catch 
a glimpse of Neville’s parents and looked mortified. 

“They were Aurors, you know, and very well respected 
within the Wizarding community,” Mrs. Longbottom 
went on. “Highly gifted, the pair of them. I — yes, 

Alice dear, what is it?” 

Neville’s mother had come edging down the ward in 
her nightdress. She no longer had the plump, happy- 
looking face Harry had seen in Moody’s old 
photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix. Her 
face was thin and worn now, her eyes seemed 
overlarge, and her hair, which had turned white, was 
wispy and dead-looking. She did not seem to want to 
speak, or perhaps she was not able to, but she made 
timid motions toward Neville, holding something in 
her outstretched hand. 

“Again?” said Mrs. Longbottom, sounding slightly 
weary. “Very well, Alice dear, very well — Neville, take 
it, whatever it is...” 



Page | 656Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But Neville had already stretched out his hand, into 
which his mother dropped an empty Droobles 
Blowing Gum wrapper. 

“Very nice, dear,” said Neville’s grandmother in a 
falsely cheery voice, patting his mother on the 
shoulder. But Neville said quietly, “Thanks Mum.” 

His mother tottered away, back up the ward, 
humming to herself. Neville looked around at the 
others, his expression defiant, as though daring them 
to laugh, but Harry did not think he’d ever found 
anything less funny in his life. 

“Well, we’d better get back,” sighed Mrs. Longbottom, 
drawing on long green gloves. “Very nice to have met 
you all. Neville, put that wrapper in the bin, she must 
have given you enough of them to paper your 
bedroom by now...” 

But as they left, Harry was sure he saw Neville slip 
the wrapper into his pocket. 

The door closed behind them. 

“I never knew,” said Hermione, who looked tearful. 
“Nor did I,” said Ron rather hoarsely. 

“Nor me,” whispered Ginny. 

They all looked at Harry. 

“I did,” he said glumly. “Dumbledore told me but I 
promised I wouldn’t mention it ... that’s what 
Bellatrix Lestrange got sent to Azkaban for, using the 
Cruciatus Curse on Neville’s parents until they lost 
their minds.” 



Page | 657Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Bellatrix Lestrange did that?” whispered Hermione, 
horrified. “That woman Kreacher’s got a photo of in 
his den?” 



There was a long silence, broken by Lockhart’s angry 
voice. “Look, I didn’t learn joined-up writing for 
nothing, you know!” 



Page | 658Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





OCCLUMENCY 

Kreacher, it transpired, had been lurking in the attic. 
Sirius said he had found him up there, covered in 
dust, no doubt looking for more relics of the Black 
family to hide in his cupboard. Though Sirius seemed 
satisfied with this story, it made Harry uneasy. 
Kreacher seemed to be in a better mood on his 
reappearance, his bitter muttering had subsided 
somewhat, and he submitted to orders more docilely 
than usual, though once or twice Harry caught the 
house-elf staring avidly at him, always looking quickly 
away when he saw that Harry had noticed. 

Harry did not mention his vague suspicions to Sirius, 
whose cheerfulness was evaporating fast now that 
Christmas was over. As the date of their departure 
back to Hogwarts drew nearer, he became more and 
more prone to what Mrs. Weasley called “fits of the 
sullens,” in which he would become taciturn and 
grumpy, often withdrawing to Buckbeak’s room for 
hours at a time. His gloom seeped through the house, 
oozing under doorways like some noxious gas, so that 
all of them became infected by it. 

Page | 659Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Harry did not want to leave Sirius all alone again with 
only Kreacher for company. In fact, for the first time 
in his life, he was not looking forward to returning to 
Hogwarts. Going back to school would mean placing 
himself once again under the tyranny of Dolores 
Umbridge, who had no doubt managed to force 
through another dozen decrees in their absence. Then 
there was no Quidditch to look forward to now that he 
had been banned; there was every likelihood that 
their burden of homework would increase as the 
exams drew even nearer; Dumbledore remained as 
remote as ever; in fact, if it had not been for the D.A., 
Harry felt he might have gone to Sirius and begged 
him to let him leave Hogwarts and remain in 
Grimmauld Place. 

Then, on the very last day of the holidays, something 
happened that made Harry positively dread his return 
to school. 

“Harry dear,” said Mrs. Weasley, poking her head into 
his and Ron’s bedroom, where the pair of them were 
playing wizard chess watched by Hermione, Ginny, 
and Crookshanks, “could you come down to the 
kitchen? Professor Snape would like a word with 
you.” 

Harry did not immediately register what she had said; 
one of his castles was engaged in a violent tussle with 
a pawn of Ron’s, and he was egging it on 
enthusiastically. 

“Squash him — squash him, he’s only a pawn, you 
idiot — sorry, Mrs. Weasley, what did you say?” 

“Professor Snape, dear. In the kitchen. He’d like a 
word.” 



Page | 660Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s mouth fell open in horror. He looked around 
at Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, all of whom were 
gaping back at him. Crookshanks, whom Hermione 
had been restraining with difficulty for the past 
quarter of an hour, leapt gleefully upon the board and 
set the pieces running for cover, squealing at the top 
of their voices. 

“Snape?” said Harry blankly. 

“Professor Snape, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley 
reprovingly. “Now come on, quickly, he says he can’t 
stay long.” 

“What’s he want with you?” said Ron, looking 
unnerved as Mrs. Weasley withdrew from the room. 

“You haven’t done anything, have you?” 

“No!” said Harry indignantly, racking his brains to 
think what he could have done that would make 
Snape pursue him to Grimmauld Place. Had his last 
piece of homework perhaps earned a T? 

He pushed open the kitchen door a minute or two 
later to find Sirius and Snape both seated at the long 
kitchen table, glaring in opposite directions. The 
silence between them was heavy with mutual dislike. 

A letter lay open on the table in front of Sirius. 

“Er,” said Harry to announce his presence. 

Snape looked around at him, his face framed between 
curtains of greasy black hair. 

“Sit down, Potter.” 

“You know,” said Sirius loudly, leaning back on his 
rear chair legs and speaking to the ceiling, “I think I’d 

Page | 661Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




prefer it if you didn’t give orders here, Snape. It’s my 
house, you see.” 

An ugly flush suffused Snape ’s pallid face. Harry sat 
down in a chair beside Sirius, facing Snape across the 
table. 

“I was supposed to see you alone, Potter,” said Snape, 
the familiar sneer curling his mouth, “but Black — ” 

“I’m his godfather,” said Sirius, louder than ever. 

“I am here on Dumbledore’s orders,” said Snape, 
whose voice, by contrast, was becoming more and 
more quietly waspish, “but by all means stay, Black, I 
know you like to feel ... involved.” 

“What’s that supposed to mean?” said Sirius, letting 
his chair fall back onto all four legs with a loud bang. 

“Merely that I am sure you must feel — ah — 
frustrated by the fact that you can do nothing useful,” 
Snape laid a delicate stress on the word, “for the 
Order.” 

It was Sirius’s turn to flush. Snape ’s lip curled in 
triumph as he turned to Harry. 

“The headmaster has sent me to tell you, Potter, that 
it is his wish for you to study Occlumency this term.” 

“Study what?” said Harry blankly. 

Snape’s sneer became more pronounced. 

“Occlumency, Potter. The magical defense of the mind 
against external penetration. An obscure branch of 
magic, but a highly useful one.” 



Page | 662Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s heart began to pump very fast indeed. 

Defense against external penetration? But he was not 
being possessed, they had all agreed on that... 

“Why do I have to study Occlu — thing?” he blurted 
out. 

“Because the headmaster thinks it a good idea,” said 
Snape smoothly. “You will receive private lessons 
once a week, but you will not tell anybody what you 
are doing, least of all Dolores Umbridge. You 
understand?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. “Who’s going to be teaching me?” 
Snape raised an eyebrow. 

“I am,” he said. 

Harry had the horrible sensation that his insides were 
melting. Extra lessons with Snape — what on earth 
had he done to deserve this? He looked quickly 
around at Sirius for support. 

“Why can’t Dumbledore teach Harry?” asked Sirius 
aggressively. “Why you?” 

“I suppose because it is a headmaster’s privilege to 
delegate less enjoyable tasks,” said Snape silkily. “I 
assure you I did not beg for the job.” He got to his 
feet. “I will expect you at six o’clock on Monday 
evening, Potter. My office. If anybody asks, you are 
taking Remedial Potions. Nobody who has seen you in 
my classes could deny you need them.” 

He turned to leave, his black traveling cloak billowing 
behind him. 



Page | 663Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Wait a moment,” said Sirius, sitting up straighter in 
his chair. 

Snape turned back to face them, sneering. 

“I am in rather a hurry, Black ... unlike you, I do not 
have unlimited leisure time...” 

“I’ll get to the point, then,” said Sirius, standing up. 

He was rather taller than Snape who, Harry noticed, 
had balled his fist in the pocket of his cloak over what 
Harry was sure was the handle of his wand. “If I hear 
you’re using these Occlumency lessons to give Harry 
a hard time, you’ll have me to answer to.” 

“How touching,” Snape sneered. “But surely you have 
noticed that Potter is very like his father?” 

“Yes, I have,” said Sirius proudly. 

“Well then, you’ll know he’s so arrogant that criticism 
simply bounces off him,” Snape said sleekly. 

Sirius pushed his chair roughly aside and strode 
around the table toward Snape, pulling out his wand 
as he went; Snape whipped out his own. They were 
squaring up to each other, Sirius looking livid, Snape 
calculating, his eyes darting from Sirius’s wand tip to 
his face. 

“Sirius!” said Harry loudly, but Sirius appeared not to 
hear him. 

“I’ve warned you, Snivellus,” said Sirius, his face 
barely a foot from Snape ’s, “I don’t care if Dumbledore 
thinks you’ve reformed, I know better — ” 

“Oh, but why don’t you tell him so?” whispered 
Snape. “Or are you afraid he might not take the 

Page | 664Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




advice of a man who has been hiding inside his 
mother’s house for six months very seriously?” 

“Tell me, how is Lucius Malfoy these days? I expect 
he’s delighted his lapdog’s working at Hogwarts, isn’t 
he?” 

“Speaking of dogs,” said Snape softly, “did you know 
that Lucius Malfoy recognized you last time you 
risked a little jaunt outside? Clever idea, Black, 
getting yourself seen on a safe station platform . . . 
gave you a cast-iron excuse not to leave your hidey- 
hole in future, didn’t it?” 

Sirius raised his wand. 

“NO!” Harry yelled, vaulting over the table and trying 
to get in between them, “Sirius, don’t — ” 

“Are you calling me a coward?” roared Sirius, trying to 
push Harry out of the way, but Harry would not 
budge. 

“Why, yes, I suppose I am,” said Snape. 

“Harry — get — out — of — it!” snarled Sirius, 
pushing him out of the way with his free hand. 

The kitchen door opened and the entire Weasley 
family, plus Hermione, came inside, all looking very 
happy, with Mr. Weasley walking proudly in their 
midst dressed in a pair of striped pajamas covered by 
a mackintosh. 

“Cured!” he announced brightly to the kitchen at 
large. “Completely cured!” 

He and all the other Weasleys froze on the threshold, 
gazing at the scene in front of them, which was also 

Page | 665Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




suspended in mid-action, both Sirius and Snape 
looking toward the door with their wands pointing 
into each other’s faces and Harry immobile between 
them, a hand stretched out to each of them, trying to 
force them apart. 

“Merlin’s beard,” said Mr. Weasley, the smile sliding 
off his face, “what’s going on here?” 

Both Sirius and Snape lowered their wands. Harry 
looked from one to the other. Each wore an 
expression of utmost contempt, yet the unexpected 
entrance of so many witnesses seemed to have 
brought them to their senses. Snape pocketed his 
wand and swept back across the kitchen, passing the 
Weasleys without comment. At the door he looked 
back. 

“Six o’clock Monday evening, Potter.” 

He was gone. Sirius glared after him, his wand at his 
side. 

“But what’s been going on?” asked Mr. Weasley again. 

“Nothing, Arthur,” said Sirius, who was breathing 
heavily as though he had just run a long distance. 
“Just a friendly little chat between two old school 
friends...” With what looked like an enormous effort, 
he smiled. “So ... you’re cured? That’s great news, 
really great...” 

“Yes, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Weasley, leading her 
husband forward into a chair. “Healer Smethwyck 
worked his magic in the end, found an antidote to 
whatever that snake’s got in its fangs, and Arthur’s 
learned his lesson about dabbling in Muggle 
medicine, haven’t you, dear?” she added, rather 
menacingly. 

Page | 666Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, Molly dear,” said Mr. Weasley meekly. 

That night’s meal should have been a cheerful one 
with Mr. Weasley back amongst them; Harry could 
tell Sirius was trying to make it so, yet when his 
godfather was not forcing himself to laugh loudly at 
Fred and George’s jokes or offering everyone more 
food, his face fell back into a moody, brooding 
expression. Harry was separated from him by 
Mundungus and Mad-Eye, who had dropped in to 
offer Mr. Weasley their congratulations; he wanted to 
talk to Sirius, to tell him that he should not listen to a 
word Snape said, that Snape was goading him 
deliberately and that the rest of them did not think 
Sirius was a coward for doing as Dumbledore told 
him and remaining in Grimmauld Place, but he had 
no opportunity to do so, and wondered occasionally, 
eyeing the ugly look on Sirius’s face, whether he 
would have dared to even if he had the chance. 

Instead he told Ron and Hermione under his voice 
about having to take Occlumency lessons with Snape. 

“Dumbledore wants to stop you having those dreams 
about Voldemort,” said Hermione at once. “Well, you 
won’t be sorry not to have them anymore, will you?” 

“Extra lessons with Snape?” said Ron, sounding 
aghast. “I’d rather have the nightmares!” 

They were to return to Hogwarts on the Knight Bus 
the following day, escorted once again by Tonks and 
Lupin, both of whom were eating breakfast in the 
kitchen when Harry, Ron, and Hermione arrived there 
next morning. The adults seemed to have been 
midway through a whispered conversation when the 
door opened; all of them looked around hastily and 
fell silent. 



Page | 667Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




After a hurried breakfast they pulled on jackets and 
scarves against the chilly gray January morning. 

Harry had an unpleasant constricted sensation in his 
chest; he did not want to say good-bye to Sirius. He 
had a bad feeling about this parting; he did not know 
when they would next see each other and felt that it 
was incumbent upon him to say something to Sirius 
to stop him doing anything stupid — Harry was 
worried that Snape’s accusation of cowardice had 
stung Sirius so badly he might even now be planning 
some foolhardy trip beyond Grimmauld Place. Before 
he could think of what to say, however, Sirius had 
beckoned him to his side. 

“I want you to take this,” he said quietly, thrusting a 
badly wrapped package roughly the size of a 
paperback book into Harry’s hands. 

“What is it?” Harry asked. 

“A way of letting me know if Snape’s giving you a hard 
time. No, don’t open it in here!” said Sirius, with a 
wary look at Mrs. Weasley, who was trying to 
persuade the twins to wear hand-knitted mittens. “I 
doubt Molly would approve — but I want you to use it 
if you need me, all right?” 

“Okay,” said Harry, stowing the package away in the 
inside pocket of his jacket, but he knew he would 
never use whatever it was. It would not be he, Harry, 
who lured Sirius from his place of safety, no matter 
how foully Snape treated him in their forthcoming 
Occlumency classes. 

“Let’s go, then,” said Sirius, clapping Harry on the 
shoulder and smiling grimly, and before Harry could 
say anything else, they were heading upstairs, 
stopping before the heavily chained and bolted front 
door, surrounded by Weasleys. 

Page | 668Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Good-bye, Harry, take care,” said Mrs. Weasley, 
hugging him. 

“See you Harry, and keep an eye out for snakes for 
me!” said Mr. Weasley genially, shaking his hand. 

“Right — yeah,” said Harry distractedly. It was his 
last chance to tell Sirius to be careful; he turned, 
looked into his godfather’s face and opened his mouth 
to speak, but before he could do so Sirius was giving 
him a brief, one-armed hug. He said gruffly, “Look 
after yourself, Harry,” and next moment Harry found 
himself being shunted out into the icy winter air, with 
Tonks (today heavily disguised as a tall, tweedy 
woman with iron-gray hair) chivvying him down the 
steps. 

The door of number twelve slammed shut behind 
them. They followed Lupin down the front steps. As 
he reached the pavement, Harry looked around. 
Number twelve was shrinking rapidly as those on 
either side of it stretched sideways, squeezing it out of 
sight; one blink later, it had gone. 

“Come on, the quicker we get on the bus the better,” 
said Tonks, and Harry thought there was 
nervousness in the glance she threw around the 
square. Lupin flung out his right arm. 

BANG. 

A violently purple, triple-decker bus had appeared out 
of thin air in front of them, narrowly avoiding the 
nearest lamppost, which jumped backward out of its 
way. 

A thin, pimply, jug-eared youth in a purple uniform 
leapt down onto the pavement and said, “Welcome to 
the — ” 

Page | 669Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, yes, we know, thank you,” said Tonks swiftly. 
“On, on, get on — 

And she shoved Harry forward toward the steps, past 
the conductor, who goggled at Harry as he passed. 

“ ’Ere — it’s ’Arry — !” 



“If you shout his name I will curse you into oblivion,” 
muttered Tonks menacingly, now shunting Ginny and 
Hermione forward. 

“I’ve always wanted to go on this thing,” said Ron 
happily, joining Harry on board and looking around. 

It had been evening the last time Harry had traveled 
by Knight Bus and its three decks had been full of 
brass bedsteads. Now, in the early morning, it was 
crammed with an assortment of mismatched chairs 
grouped haphazardly around windows. Some of these 
appeared to have fallen over when the bus stopped 
abruptly in Grimmauld Place; a few witches and 
wizards were still getting to their feet, grumbling, and 
somebody’s shopping bag had slid the length of the 
bus; an unpleasant mixture of frog spawn, 
cockroaches, and custard creams was scattered all 
over the floor. 

“Looks like we’ll have to split up,” said Tonics briskly, 
looking around for empty chairs. “Fred, George, and 
Ginny, if you just take those seats at the back ... 
Remus can stay with you...” 

She, Harry, Ron, and Hermione proceeded up to the 
very top deck, where there were two chairs at the very 
front of the bus and two at the back. Stan Shunpike, 
the conductor, followed Harry and Ron eagerly to the 
back. Heads turned as Harry passed and when he sat 



Page | 670Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




down, he saw all the faces flick back to the front 
again. 

As Harry and Ron handed Stan eleven Sickles each, 
the bus set off again, swaying ominously. It rumbled 
around Grimmauld Square, weaving on and off the 
pavement, then, with another tremendous BANG, 
they were all flung backward; Ron’s chair toppled 
right over and Pigwidgeon, who had been on his lap, 
burst out of his cage and flew twittering wildly up to 
the front of the bus where he fluttered down upon 
Hermione’s shoulder instead. Harry, who had 
narrowly avoided falling by seizing a candle bracket, 
looked out of the window: they were now speeding 
down what appeared to be a motorway. 

“Just outside Birmingham,” said Stan happily, 
answering Harry’s unasked question as Ron struggled 
up from the floor. “You keepin’ well, then, ’Arry? I 
seen your name in the paper loads over the summer, 
but it weren’t never nuffink very nice... I said to Ern, I 
said, ‘’e didn’t seem like a nutter when we met ’im, 
just goes to show, dunnit?’ ” 

He handed over their tickets and continued to gaze, 
enthralled, at Harry; apparently Stan did not care 
how nutty somebody was if they were famous enough 
to be in the paper. The Knight Bus swayed 
alarmingly, overtaking a line of cars on the inside. 
Looking toward the front of the bus Harry saw 
Hermione cover her eyes with her hands, Pigwidgeon 
still swaying happily on her shoulder. 

BANG. 

Chairs slid backward again as the Knight Bus jumped 
from the Birmingham motorway to a quiet country 
lane full of hairpin bends. Hedgerows on either side of 
the road were leaping out of their way as they 

Page | 671Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




mounted the verges. From here they moved to a main 
street in the middle of a busy town, then to a viaduct 
surrounded by tall hills, then to a windswept road 
between high-rise flats, each time with a loud BANG. 

“I’ve changed my mind,” muttered Ron, picking 
himself up from the floor for the sixth time, “I never 
want to ride on here again.” 

“Listen, it’s ’Ogwarts stop after this,” said Stan 
brightly, swaying toward them. “That bossy woman 
up front ’oo got on with you, she’s given us a little tip 
to move you up the queue. We’re just gonna let 
Madam Marsh off first, though — ” There was more 
retching from downstairs, followed by a horrible 
spattering sound. “She’s not feeling ’er best.” 

A few minutes later the Knight Bus screeched to a 
halt outside a small pub, which squeezed itself out of 
the way to avoid a collision. They could hear Stan 
ushering the unfortunate Madam Marsh out of the 
bus and the relieved murmurings of her fellow 
passengers on the second deck. The bus moved on 
again, gathering speed, until — 

BANG. 

They were rolling through a snowy Hogsmeade. Harry 
