

framed photograph of the unknown thief inside his 
jacket. 

The stairs were steep and narrow: Harry was half 
tempted to place his hands on stout Bathilda’s 
backside to ensure that she did not topple over 
backward on top of him, which seemed only too likely. 
Slowly, wheezing a little, she climbed to the upper 
landing, turned immediately right, and led him into a 
low-ceilinged bedroom. 

It was pitch-black and smelled horrible: Harry had 
just made out a chamber pot protruding from under 
the bed before Bathilda closed the door and even that 
was swallowed by the darkness. 

“Lumos,” said Harry, and his wand ignited. He gave a 
start: Bathilda had moved close to him in those few 
seconds of darkness, and he had not heard her 
approach. 

“You are Potter?” she whispered. 

“Yes, I am.” 

She nodded slowly, solemnly. Harry felt the Horcrux 
beating fast, faster than his own heart: It was an 
unpleasant, agitating sensation. 

“Have you got anything for me?” Harry asked, but she 
seemed distracted by his lit wand-tip. 

“Have you got anything for me?” he repeated. 

Then she closed her eyes and several things 
happened at once: Harry’s scar prickled painfully; the 
Horcrux twitched so that the front of his sweater 
actually moved; the dark, fetid room dissolved 



Page | 382 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




momentarily. He felt a leap of joy and spoke in a high, 
cold voice: Hold him). 

Harry swayed where he stood: The dark, foul-smelling 
room seemed to close around him again; he did not 
know what had just happened. 

“Have you got anything for me?” he asked for a third 
time, much louder. 

“Over here,” she whispered, pointing to the corner. 
Harry raised his wand and saw the outline of a 
cluttered dressing table beneath the curtained 
window. 

This time she did not lead him. Harry edged between 
her and the unmade bed, his wand raised. He did not 
want to look away from her. 

“What is it?” he asked as he reached the dressing 
table, which was heaped high with what looked and 
smelled like dirty laundry. 

“There,” she said, pointing at the shapeless mass. 

And in the instant that he looked away, his eyes 
raking the tangled mess for a sword hilt, a ruby, she 
moved weirdly: He saw it out of the corner of his eye; 
panic made him turn and horror paralyzed him as he 
saw the old body collapsing and the great snake 
pouring from the place where her neck had been. 

The snake struck as he raised his wand: The force of 
the bite to his forearm sent the wand spinning up 
toward the ceiling; its light swung dizzyingly around 
the room and was extinguished: Then a powerful blow 
from the tail to his midriff knocked the breath out of 
him: He fell backward onto the dressing table, into 
the mound of filthy clothing — 

Page | 383 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He rolled sideways, narrowly avoiding the snake’s tail, 
which thrashed down upon the table where he had 
been a second earlier: Fragments of the glass surface 
rained upon him as he hit the floor. From below he 
heard Hermione call, “Harry?” 

He could not get enough breath into his lungs to call 
back: Then a heavy smooth mass smashed him to the 
floor and he felt it slide over him, powerful, muscular 



“No!” he gasped, pinned to the floor. 

“Yes,” whispered the voice. “Yesss ... hold you ... hold 
you ...” 

“Accio ... Accio Wand ...” 

But nothing happened and he needed his hands to try 
to force the snake from him as it coiled itself around 
his torso, squeezing the air from him, pressing the 
Horcrux hard into his chest, a circle of ice that 
throbbed with life, inches from his own frantic heart, 
and his brain was flooding with cold, white light, all 
thought obliterated, his own breath drowned, distant 
footsteps, everything going. ... 

A metal heart was banging outside his chest, and now 
he was flying, flying with triumph in his heart, 
without need of broomstick or thestral. ... 

He was abruptly awake in the sour-smelling 
darkness; Nagini had released him. He scrambled up 
and saw the snake outlined against the landing light: 
It struck, and Hermione dived aside with a shriek; her 
deflected curse hit the curtained window, which 
shattered. Frozen air filled the room as Harry ducked 
to avoid another shower of broken glass and his foot 
slipped on a pencil-like something — his wand — 
Page | 384 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He bent and snatched it up, but now the room was 
full of the snake, its tail thrashing; Hermione was 
nowhere to be seen and for a moment Harry thought 
the worst, but then there was a loud bang and a flash 
of red light, and the snake flew into the air, smacking 
Harry hard in the face as it went, coil after heavy coil 
rising up to the ceiling. Harry raised his wand, but as 
he did so, his scar seared more painfully, more 
powerfully than it had done in years. 

“He’s coming! Hermione, he’s comingl” 

As he yelled the snake fell, hissing wildly. Everything 
was chaos: It smashed shelves from the wall, and 
splintered china flew everywhere as Harry jumped 
over the bed and seized the dark shape he knew to be 
Hermione — 

She shrieked with pain as he pulled her back across 
the bed: The snake reared again, but Harry knew that 
worse than the snake was coming, was perhaps 
already at the gate, his head was going to split open 
with the pain from his scar — 

The snake lunged as he took a running leap, dragging 
Hermione with him; as it struck, Hermione screamed, 

“ ConfringoV’ and her spell flew around the room, 
exploding the wardrobe mirror and ricocheting back 
at them, bouncing from floor to ceiling; Harry felt the 
heat of it sear the back of his hand. Glass cut his 
cheek as, pulling Hermione with him, he leapt from 
bed to broken dressing table and then straight out of 
the smashed window into nothingness, her scream 
reverberating through the night as they twisted in 
midair. ... 

And then his scar burst open and he was Voldemort 
and he was running across the fetid bedroom, his 
long white hands clutching at the windowsill as he 

Page | 385 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




glimpsed the bald man and the little woman twist and 
vanish, and he screamed with rage, a scream that 
mingled with the girl’s, that echoed across the dark 
gardens over the church bells ringing in Christmas 
Day. ... 

And his scream was Harry’s scream, his pain was 
Harry’s pain ... that it could happen here, where it 
had happened before ... here, within sight of that 
house where he had come so close to knowing what it 
was to die ... to die. ... The pain was so terrible ... 
ripped from his body. ... But if he had no body, why 
did his head hurt so badly; if he was dead, how could 
he feel so unbearably, didn’t pain cease with death, 
didn’t it go ... 

The night wet and windy, two children dressed as 
pumpkins waddling across the square, and the shop 
windows covered in paper spiders, all the tawdry 
Muggle trappings of a world in which they did not 
believe. ... And he was gliding along, that sense of 
purpose and power and rightness in him that he 
always knew on these occasions. . . . Not anger . . . that 
was for weaker souls than he ... but triumph, yes. ... 
He had waited for this, he had hoped for it. ... 

“Nice costume, mister!” 

He saw the small boy’s smile falter as he ran near 
enough to see beneath the hood of the cloak, saw the 
fear cloud his painted face: Then the child turned and 
ran away. ... Beneath the robe he fingered the handle 
of his wand. ... One simple movement and the child 
would never reach his mother . . . but unnecessary, 
quite unnecessary. . . . 

And along a new and darker street he moved, and 
now his destination was in sight at last, the Fidelius 
Charm broken, though they did not know it yet. ... 

Page | 386 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




And he made less noise than the dead leaves 
slithering along the pavement as he drew level with 
the dark hedge, and stared over it. ... 

They had not drawn the curtains; he saw them quite 
clearly in their little sitting room, the tall black-haired 
man in his glasses, making puffs of colored smoke 
erupt from his wand for the amusement of the small 
black-haired boy in his blue pajamas. The child was 
laughing and trying to catch the smoke, to grab it in 
his small fist. ... 

A door opened and the mother entered, saying words 
he could not hear, her long dark-red hair falling over 
her face. Now the father scooped up the son and 
handed him to the mother. He threw his wand down 
upon the sofa and stretched, yawning. . . . 

The gate creaked a little as he pushed it open, but 
James Potter did not hear. His white hand pulled out 
the wand beneath his cloak and pointed it at the 
door, which burst open. 

He was over the threshold as James came sprinting 
into the hall. It was easy, too easy, he had not even 
picked up his wand. ... 

“Lily, take Harry and go! It’s him! Go! Run! Ill hold 
him off!” 

Hold him off, without a wand in his hand! . . . He 
laughed before casting the curse. . . . 

“Avada Kedavra!” 

The green light filled the cramped hallway, it lit the 
pram pushed against the wall, it made the banisters 
glare like lightning rods, and James Potter fell like a 
marionette whose strings were cut. ... 

Page | 387 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He could hear her screaming from the upper floor, 
trapped, but as long as she was sensible, she, at 
least, had nothing to fear. ... He climbed the steps, 
listening with faint amusement to her attempts to 
barricade herself in. ... She had no wand upon her 
either. ... How stupid they were, and how trusting, 
thinking that their safety lay in friends, that weapons 
could be discarded even for moments. ... 

He forced the door open, cast aside the chair and 
boxes hastily piled against it with one lazy wave of his 
wand ... and there she stood, the child in her arms. At 
the sight of him, she dropped her son into the crib 
behind her and threw her arms wide, as if this would 
help, as if in shielding him from sight she hoped to be 
chosen instead. . . . 

“Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!” 

“Stand aside, you silly girl . . . stand aside, now. ” 

“Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead — ” 

“This is my last warning — ” 

“Not Harry! Please . . . have mercy . . . have mercy. . . . 

Not Harry! Not Harry! Please — I’ll do anything — ” 

“Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!” 

He could have forced her away from the crib, but it 
seemed more prudent to finish them all. ... 

The green light flashed around the room and she 
dropped like her husband. The child had not cried all 
this time: He could stand, clutching the bars of his crib, 
and he looked up into the intruder’s face with a kind of 
bright interest, perhaps thinking that it was his father 



Page | 388 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




who hid beneath the cloak, making more pretty lights, 
and his mother would pop up any moment, laughing — 

He pointed the wand very carefully into the boy’s face: 
He wanted to see it happen, the destruction of this one, 
inexplicable danger. The child began to cry: It had seen 
that he was not James. He did not like it crying, he 
had never been able to stomach the small ones 
whining in the orphanage — 

“Avada Kedavra!” 

And then he broke: He was nothing, nothing but pain 
and terror, and he must hide himself, not here in the 
rubble of the ruined house, where the child was 
trapped and screaming, but far away . . . far away. . . . 

“No,” he moaned. 

The snake rustled on the filthy, cluttered floor, and he 
had killed the boy, and yet he was the boy. . . . 

“No ...” 

And now he stood at the broken window of Bathilda’s 
house, immersed in memories of his greatest loss, and 
at his feet the great snake slithered over broken china 
and glass. ... He looked down and saw something ... 
something incredible. . . . 

“No ...” 

“Harry, it’s all right, you’re all right!” 

He stooped down and picked up the smashed 
photograph. There he was, the unknown thief, the 
thief he was seeking. . . . 

“No ... I dropped it. ... I dropped it. ...” 

Page | 389 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, it’s okay, wake up, wake up!” 



He was Harry. ... Harry, not Voldemort ... and the 
thing that was rustling was not a snake. ... He opened 
his eyes. 

“Harry,” Hermione whispered. “Do you feel all — all 
right?” 

“Yes,” he lied. 

He was in the tent, lying on one of the lower bunks 
beneath a heap of blankets. He could tell that it was 
almost dawn by the stillness and the quality of the 
cold, flat light beyond the canvas ceiling. He was 
drenched in sweat; he could feel it on the sheets and 
blankets. 

“We got away.” 

“Yes,” said Hermione. “I had to use a Hover Charm to 
get you into your bunk, I couldn’t lift you. You’ve 
been ... Well, you haven’t been quite ...” 

There were purple shadows under her brown eyes and 
he noticed a small sponge in her hand: She had been 
wiping his face. 

“You’ve been ill,” she finished. “Quite ill.” 

“How long ago did we leave?” 

“Hours ago. It’s nearly morning.” 

“And I’ve been ... what, unconscious?” 

“Not exactly,” said Hermione uncomfortably. “You’ve 
been shouting and moaning and ... things,” she 
added in a tone that made Harry feel uneasy. What 

Page | 390 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




had he done? Screamed curses like Voldemort, cried 
like the baby in the crib? 

“I couldn’t get the Horcrux off you,” Hermione said, 
and he knew she wanted to change the subject. “It 
was stuck, stuck to your chest. You’ve got a mark; I’m 
sorry, I had to use a Severing Charm to get it away. 
The snake bit you too, but I’ve cleaned the wound and 
put some dittany on it. ...” 

He pulled the sweaty T-shirt he was wearing away 
from himself and looked down. There was a scarlet 
oval over his heart where the locket had burned him. 
He could also see the half-healed puncture marks to 
his forearm. 

“Where Ve you put the Horcrux?” 

“In my bag. I think we should keep it off for a while.” 

He lay back on his pillows and looked into her 
pinched gray face. 

“We shouldn’t have gone to Godric’s Hollow. It’s my 
fault, it’s all my fault, Hermione, I’m sorry.” 

“It’s not your fault. I wanted to go too; I really thought 
Dumbledore might have left the sword there for you.” 

“Yeah, well ... we got that wrong, didn’t we?” 

“What happened, Harry? What happened when she 
took you upstairs? Was the snake hiding somewhere? 
Did it just come out and kill her and attack you?” 

“No,” he said. “She was the snake ... or the snake was 
her ... all along.” 

“W-what?” 

Page | 391 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He closed his eyes. He could still smell Bathilda’s 
house on him: It made the whole thing horribly vivid. 

“Bathilda must’ve been dead a while. The snake was 
... was inside her. You-Know-Who put it there in 
Godric’s Hollow, to wait. You were right. He knew I’d 
go back.” 

“The snake was inside her?” 

He opened his eyes again: Hermione looked revolted, 
nauseated. 

“Lupin said there would be magic we’d never 
imagined,” Harry said. “She didn’t want to talk in 
front of you, because it was Parseltongue, all 
Parseltongue, and I didn’t realize, but of course I 
could understand her. Once we were up in the room, 
the snake sent a message to You-Know-Who, I heard 
it happen inside my head, I felt him get excited, he 
said to keep me there ... and then ...” 

He remembered the snake coming our of Bathilda’s 
neck: Hermione did not need to know the details. 

"... she changed, changed into the snake, and 
attacked.” 

He looked down at the puncture marks. 

“It wasn’t supposed to kill me, just keep me there till 
You-Know-Who came.” 

If he had only managed to kill the snake, it would 
have been worth it, all of it. ... Sick at heart, he sat up 
and threw back the covers. 

“Harry, no, I’m sure you ought to rest!” 



Page | 392 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re the one who needs sleep. No offense, but you 
look terrible. I’m fine. I’ll keep watch for a while. 
Where’s my wand?” 

She did not answer, she merely looked at him. 
“Where’s my wand, Hermione?” 

She was biting her lip, and tears swam in her eyes. 
“Harry ...” 

“ Where’s my wand?” 

She reached down beside the bed and held it out to 
him. 

The holly and phoenix wand was nearly severed in 
two. One fragile strand of phoenix feather kept both 
pieces hanging together. The wood had splintered 
apart completely. Harry took it into his hands as 
though it was a living thing that had suffered a 
terrible injury. He could not think properly: 
Everything was a blur of panic and fear. Then he held 
out the wand to Hermione. 

“Mend it. Please.” 

“Harry, I don’t think, when it’s broken like this — ” 
“Please, Hermione, try!” 

“R-Reparo.” 

The dangling half of the wand resealed itself. Harry 
held it up. 

“Lumosl” 



Page | 393 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The wand sparked feebly, then went out. Harry 
pointed it at Hermione. 

“ Expelliarmusl” 

Hermione ’s wand gave a little jerk, but did not leave 
her hand. The feeble attempt at magic was too much 
for Harry’s wand, which split into two again. He 
stared at it, aghast, unable to take in what he was 
seeing . . . the wand that had survived so much . . . 

“Harry,” Hermione whispered so quietly he could 
hardly hear her. “I’m so, so sorry. I think it was me. 

As we were leaving, you know, the snake was coming 
for us, and so I cast a Blasting Curse, and it 
rebounded everywhere, and it must have — must 
have hit — ” 

“It was an accident,” said Harry mechanically. He felt 
empty, stunned. “We’ll — we’ll find a way to repair it.” 

“Harry, I don’t think we’re going to be able to,” said 
Hermione, the tears trickling down her face. 
“Remember . . . remember Ron? When he broke his 
wand, crashing the car? It was never the same again, 
he had to get a new one.” 

Harry thought of Ollivander, kidnapped and held 
hostage by Voldemort; of Gregorovitch, who was dead. 
How was he supposed to find himself a new wand? 

“Well,” he said, in a falsely matter-of-fact voice, “well, 
I’ll just borrow yours for now, then. While I keep 
watch.” 

Her face glazed with tears, Hermione handed over her 
wand, and he left her sitting beside his bed, desiring 
nothing more than to get away from her. 



Page | 394 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE LIFE AND LIES OF ALBUS 
DUMBLEDORE 

The sun was coming up: The pure, colorless vastness 
of the sky stretched over him, indifferent to him and 
his suffering. Harry sat down in the tent entrance and 
took a deep breath of clean air. Simply to be alive to 
watch the sun rise over the sparkling snowy hillside 
ought to have been the greatest treasure on earth, yet 
he could not appreciate it: His senses had been 
spiked by the calamity of losing his wand. He looked 
out over a valley blanketed in snow, distant church 
bells chiming through the glittering silence. 

Without realizing it, he was digging his fingers into 
his arms as if he were trying to resist physical pain. 

He had spilled his own blood more times than he 
could count; he had lost all the bones in his right arm 
once; this journey had already given him scars to his 
chest and forearm to join those on his hand and 
forehead, but never, until this moment, had he felt 
himself to be fatally weakened, vulnerable, and 
naked, as though the best part of his magical power 
had been torn from him. He knew exactly what 
Page | 395 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Hermione would say if he expressed any of this: The 
wand is only as good as the wizard. But she was 
wrong, his case was different. She had not felt the 
wand spin like the needle of a compass and shoot 
golden flames at his enemy. He had lost the 
protection of the twin cores, and only now that it was 
gone did he realize how much he had been counting 
upon it. 

He pulled the pieces of the broken wand out of his 
pocket and, without looking at them, tucked them 
away in Hagrid’s pouch around his neck. The pouch 
was now too full of broken and useless objects to take 
any more. Harry’s hand brushed the old Snitch 
through the mokeskin and for a moment he had to 
fight the temptation to pull it out and throw it away. 
Impenetrable, unhelpful, useless, like everything else 
Dumbledore had left behind — 

And his fury at Dumbledore broke over him now like 
lava, scorching him inside, wiping out every other 
feeling. Out of sheer desperation they had talked 
themselves into believing that Godric’s Hollow held 
answers, convinced themselves that they were 
supposed to go back, that it was all part of some 
secret path laid out for them by Dumbledore; but 
there was no map, no plan. Dumbledore had left them 
to grope in the darkness, to wrestle with unknown 
and undreamed-of terrors, alone and unaided: 

Nothing was explained, nothing was given freely, they 
had no sword, and now, Harry had no wand. And he 
had dropped the photograph of the thief, and it would 
surely be easy now for Voldemort to find out who he 
was. ... Voldemort had all the information now. ... 

“Harry?” 

Hermione looked frightened that he might curse her 
with her own wand. Her face streaked with tears, she 

Page | 396 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




crouched down beside him, two cups of tea trembling 
in her hands and something bulky under her arm. 

“Thanks,” he said, taking one of the cups. 

“Do you mind if I talk to you?” 

“No,” he said because he did not want to hurt her 
feelings. 

“Harry, you wanted to know who that man in the 
picture was. Well ... I’ve got the book.” 

Timidly she pushed it onto his lap, a pristine copy of 
The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore. 

“Where — how — ?” 

“It was in Bathilda’s sitting room, just lying there. ... 
This note was sticking out of the top of it.” 

Hermione read the few lines of spiky, acid-green 
writing aloud. 

“ ‘Dear Batty, Thanks for your help. Here’s a copy of 
the book, hope you like it. You said everything, even if 
you don’t remember it. Rita.’ I think it must have 
arrived while the real Bathilda was alive, but perhaps 
she wasn’t in any fit state to read it?” 

“No, she probably wasn’t.” 

Harry looked down upon Dumbledore ’s face and 
experienced a surge of savage pleasure: Now he would 
know all the things that Dumbledore had never 
thought it worth telling him, whether Dumbledore 
wanted him to or not. 



Page | 397 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re still really angry at me, aren’t you?” said 
Hermione; he looked up to see fresh tears leaking out 
of her eyes, and knew that his anger must have 
shown in his face. 

“No,” he said quietly. “No, Hermione, I know it was an 
accident. You were trying to get us out of there alive, 
and you were incredible. I’d be dead if you hadn’t 
been there to help me.” 

He tried to return her watery smile, then turned his 
attention to the book. Its spine was stiff; it had clearly 
never been opened before. He riffled through the 
pages, looking for photographs. He came across the 
one he sought almost at once, the young Dumbledore 
and his handsome companion, roaring with laughter 
at some long-forgotten joke. Harry dropped his eyes to 
the caption. 

Albus Dumbledore, shortly after his mother’s death, 
with his friend Gellert Grindelwald. 

Harry gaped at the last word for several long 
moments. Grindelwald. His friend Grindelwald. He 
looked sideways at Hermione, who was still 
contemplating the name as though she could not 
believe her eyes. Slowly she looked up at Harry. 

“ Grindelwald?” 

Ignoring the remainder of the photographs, Harry 
searched the pages around them for a recurrence of 
that fatal name. He soon discovered it and read 
greedily, but became lost: It was necessary to go 
further back to make sense of it all, and eventually he 
found himself at the start of a chapter entitled “The 
Greater Good.” Together, he and Hermione started to 
read: 



Page | 398 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Now approaching his eighteenth birthday, 

Dumbledore left Hogwarts in a blaze of glory — Head 
Boy, Prefect, Winner of the Barnabus Finkley Prize for 
Exceptional Spell-Casting, British Youth 
Representative to the Wizengamot, Gold Medal- 
Winner for Ground-Breaking Contribution to the 
International Alchemical Conference in Cairo. 
Dumbledore intended, next, to take a Grand Tour 
with Elphias “Dogbreath” Doge, the dim-witted but 
devoted sidekick he had picked up at school. 

The two young men were staying at the Leaky 
Cauldron in London, preparing to depart for Greece the 
following morning, when an owl arrived bearing news 
of Dumbledore’ s mother’s death. “Dogbreath” Doge, 
who refused to be interviewed for this book, has given 
the public his own sentimental version of what 
happened next. He represents Kendra’s death as a 
tragic blow, and Dumbledore’s decision to give up his 
expedition as an act of noble self-sacrifice. 

Certainly Dumbledore returned to Godric’s Hollow at 
once, supposedly to “care” for his younger brother 
and sister. But how much care did he actually give 
them? 

“He were a head case, that Aberforth,” says Enid 
Smeek, whose family lived on the outskirts of Godric’s 
Hollow at that time. “Ran wild. ’Course, with his mum 
and dad gone you’d have felt sorry for him, only he 
kept chucking goat dung at my head. I don’t think 
Albus was fussed about him, I never saw them 
together, anyway.” 

So what was Albus doing, if not comforting his wild 
young brother? The answer, it seems, is ensuring the 
continued imprisonment of his sister. For, though her 
first jailer had died, there was no change in the pitiful 
condition of Ariana Dumbledore. Her very existence 
Page | 399 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




continued to be known only to those few outsiders 
who, like “Dogbreath” Doge, could be counted upon to 
believe in the story of her “ill health.” 

Another such easily satisfied friend of the family was 
Bathilda Bagshot, the celebrated magical historian 
who has lived in Godric’s Hollow for many years. 
Kendra, of course, had rebuffed Bathilda when she 
first attempted to welcome the family to the village. 
Several years later, however, the author sent an owl to 
Albus at Hog warts, having been favorably impressed 
by his paper on trans-species transformation in 
Transfiguration Today. This initial contact led to 
acquaintance with the entire Dumbledore family . At 
the time of Kendra’s death, Bathilda was the only 
person in Godric’s Hollow who was on speaking terms 
with Dumbledore’s mother. 

Unfortunately, the brilliance that Bathilda exhibited 
earlier in her life has now dimmed. “The fire’s lit, but 
the cauldron’s empty,” as Ivor Dillonsby put it to me, 
or, in Enid Smeek’s slightly earthier phrase, “She’s 
nutty as squirrel poo.” Nevertheless, a combination of 
tried-and-tested reporting techniques enabled me to 
extract enough nuggets of hard fact to string together 
the whole scandalous story. 

Like the rest of the Wizarding world, Bathilda puts 
Kendra’s premature death down to a backfiring 
charm, a story repeated by Albus and Aberforth in 
later years. Bathilda also parrots the family line on 
Ariana, calling her “frail” and “delicate.” On one 
subject, however, Bathilda is well worth the effort I 
put into procuring Veritaserum, for she, and she 
alone, knows the full story of the best-kept secret of 
Albus Dumbledore’s life. Now revealed for the first 
time, it calls into question everything that his 
admirers believed of Dumbledore: his supposed 
hatred of the Dark Arts, his opposition to the 
Page | 400 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




oppression of Muggles, even his devotion to his own 
family. 

The very same summer that Dumbledore went home 
to Godric’s Hollow, now an orphan and head of the 
family, Bathilda Bagshot agreed to accept into her 
home her great-nephew, Gellert Grindelwald. 

The name of Grindelwald is justly famous: In a list of 
Most Dangerous Dark Wizards of All Time, he would 
miss out on the top spot only because You-Know-Who 
arrived, a generation later, to steal his crown. As 
Grindelwald never extended his campaign of terror to 
Britain, however, the details of his rise to power are 
not widely known here. 

Educated at Durmstrang, a school famous even then 
for its unfortunate tolerance of the Dark Arts, 
Grindelwald showed himself quite as precociously 
brilliant as Dumbledore. Rather than channel his 
abilities into the attainment of awards and prizes, 
however, Gellert Grindelwald devoted himself to other 
pursuits. At sixteen years old, even Durmstrang felt it 
could no longer turn a blind eye to the twisted 
experiments of Gellert Grindelwald, and he was 
expelled. 

Hitherto, all that has been known of Grindelwald ’s 
next movements is that he “traveled abroad for some 
months.” It can now be revealed that Grindelwald 
chose to visit his great-aunt in Godric’s Hollow, and 
that there, intensely shocking though it will be for 
many to hear it, he struck up a close friendship with 
none other than Albus Dumbledore. 

“He seemed a charming boy to me,” babbles Bathilda, 
“whatever he became later. Naturally I introduced him 
to poor Albus, who was missing the company of lads 
his own age. The boys took to each other at once.” 

Page | 401 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




They certainly did. Bathilda shows me a letter, kept 
by her, that Albus Dumbledore sent Gellert 
Grindelwald in the dead of night. 

“Yes, even after they’d spent all day in discussion — 
both such brilliant young boys, they got on like a 
cauldron on fire — I’d sometimes hear an owl tapping 
at Gellert’s bedroom window, delivering a letter from 
Albus! An idea would have struck him, and he had to 
let Gellert know immediately!” 

And what ideas they were. Profoundly shocking 
though Albus Dumbledore’ s fans will find it, here are 
the thoughts of their seventeen-year-old hero, as 
relayed to his new best friend. (A copy of the original 
letter may be seen on page 463.) 

Gellert — 

Your point about Wizard dominance being FOR THE 
MUGGLES’ OWN GOOD — this, I think , is the crucial 
point. Yes, we have been given power and yes, that 
power gives us the right to rule, but it also gives us 
responsibilities over the ruled. We must stress this 
point, it will be the foundation stone upon which we 
build. Where we are opposed, as we surely will be, this 
must be the basis of all our counterarguments. We 
seize control FOR THE GREATER GOOD. And from this 
it follows that where we meet resistance, we must use 
only the force that is necessary and no more. (This was 
your mistake at Durmstrang! But I do not complain, 
because if you had not been expelled, we would never 
have met.) 

Albus 

Astonished and appalled though his many admirers 
will be, this letter constitutes proof that Albus 
Dumbledore once dreamed of overthrowing the Statute 

Page | 402 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




of Secrecy and establishing Wizard rule over Muggles. 
What a blow for those who have always portrayed 
Dumbledore as the Muggle-boms’ greatest champion! 
How hollow those speeches promoting Muggle rights 
seem in the light of this damning new evidence! How 
despicable does Albus Dumbledore appear, busy 
plotting his rise to power when he should have been 
mourning his mother and caring for his sister! 

No doubt those determined to keep Dumbledore on 
his crumbling pedestal will bleat that he did not, after 
all, put his plans into action, that he must have 
suffered a change of heart, that he came to his 
senses. However, the truth seems altogether more 
shocking. 

Barely two months into their great new friendship, 
Dumbledore and Grindelwald parted, never to see each 
other again until they met for their legendary duel (for 
more, see chapter 22). What caused this abrupt 
rupture? Had Dumbledore come to his senses? Had he 
told Grindelwald he wanted no more part in his plans? 
Alas, no. 

“It was poor little Ariana dying, I think, that did it,” 
says Bathilda. “It came as an awful shock. Gellert was 
there in the house when it happened, and he came 
back to my house all of a dither, told me he wanted to 
go home the next day. Terribly distressed, you know. 
So I arranged a Portkey and that was the last I saw of 
him. 

“Albus was beside himself at Ariana’s death. It was so 
dreadful for those two brothers. They had lost 
everybody except each other. No wonder tempers ran 
a little high. Aberforth blamed Albus, you know, as 
people will under these dreadful circumstances. But 
Aberforth always talked a little madly, poor boy. All 
the same, breaking Albus’s nose at the funeral was 
Page | 403 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




not decent. It would have destroyed Kendra to see her 
sons fighting like that, across her daughter’s body. A 
shame Gellert could not have stayed for the funeral. 

... He would have been a comfort to Albus, at least. 



This dreadful coffin- side brawl, known only to those 
few who attended Ariana Dumbledore’s funeral, raises 
several questions. Why exactly did Aberforth 
Dumbledore blame Albus for his sister’s death? Was 
it, as “Batty” pretends, a mere effusion of grief? Or 
could there have been some more concrete reason for 
his fury? Grindelwald, expelled from Durmstrang for 
