      say that? If Crum had been beside him at that moment, he would
      certainly have been jostled off the pavement. His own father—his
      own! A choke came up in his throat, and he dashed his hands down
      deep into his overcoat pockets. Damn Crum! He conceived the wild
      idea of running back and fending his father, taking him by the
      arm and walking about with him in front of Crum; but gave it up
      at once and pursued his way down Piccadilly. A young woman
      planted herself before him. “Not so angry, darling!” He shied,
      dodged her, and suddenly became quite cool. If Crum ever said a
      word, he would jolly well punch his head, and there would be an
      end of it. He walked a hundred yards or more, contented with that
      thought, then lost its comfort utterly. It wasn’t simple like
      that! He remembered how, at school, when some parent came down
      who did not pass the standard, it just clung to the fellow
      afterwards. It was one of those things nothing could remove. Why
      had his mother married his father, if he was a “bounder”. It was
      bitterly unfair—jolly low-down on a fellow to give him a
      “bounder” for father. The worst of it was that now Crum had
      spoken the word, he realised that he had long known
      subconsciously that his father was not “the clean potato.” It was
      the beastliest thing that had ever happened to him—beastliest
      thing that had ever happened to any fellow! And, down-hearted as
      he had never yet been, he came to Green Street, and let himself
      in with a smuggled latch-key. In the dining-room his plover’s
      eggs were set invitingly, with some cut bread and butter, and a
      little whisky at the bottom of a decanter—just enough, as
      Winifred had thought, for him to feel himself a man. It made him
      sick to look at them, and he went upstairs.

      Winifred heard him pass, and thought: “The dear boy’s in. Thank
      goodness! If he takes after his father I don’t know what I shall
      do! But he won’t he’s like me. Dear Val!”




      CHAPTER III SOAMES PREPARES TO TAKE STEPS


      When Soames entered his sister’s little Louis Quinze
      drawing-room, with its small balcony, always flowered with
      hanging geraniums in the summer, and now with pots of Lilium
      Auratum, he was struck by the immutability of human affairs. It
      looked just the same as on his first visit to the newly married
      Darties twenty-one years ago. He had chosen the furniture
      himself, and so completely that no subsequent purchase had ever
      been able to change the room’s atmosphere. Yes, he had founded
      his sister well, and she had wanted it. Indeed, it said a great
      deal for Winifred that after all this time with Dartie she
      remained well-founded. From the first Soames had nosed out
      Dartie’s nature from underneath the plausibility, _savoir faire_,
      and good looks which had dazzled Winifred, her mother, and even
      James, to the extent of permitting the fellow to marry his
      daughter without bringing anything but shares of no value into
      settlement.

      Winifred, whom he noticed next to the furniture, was sitting at
      her Buhl bureau with a letter in her hand. She rose and came
      towards him. Tall as himself, strong in the cheekbones, well
      tailored, something in her face disturbed Soames. She crumpled
      the letter in her hand, but seemed to change her mind and held it
      out to him. He was her lawyer as well as her brother.

      Soames read, on Iseeum Club paper, these words:

      ‘You will not get chance to insult in my own again. I am leaving
      country to-morrow. It’s played out. I’m tired of being insulted
      by you. You’ve brought on yourself. No self-respecting man can
      stand it. I shall not ask you for anything again. Good-bye. I
      took the photograph of the two girls. Give them my love. I don’t
      care what your family say. It’s all their doing. I’m going to
      live new life.

      ‘M.D.’

      This after-dinner note had a splotch on it not yet quite dry. He
      looked at Winifred—the splotch had clearly come from her; and he
      checked the words: “Good riddance!” Then it occurred to him that
      with this letter she was entering that very state which he
      himself so earnestly desired to quit—the state of a Forsyte who
      was not divorced.

      Winifred had turned away, and was taking a long sniff from a
      little gold-topped bottle. A dull commiseration, together with a
      vague sense of injury, crept about Soames’ heart. He had come to
      her to talk of his own position, and get sympathy, and here was
      she in the same position, wanting of course to talk of it, and
      get sympathy from him. It was always like that! Nobody ever
      seemed to think that he had troubles and interests of his own. He
      folded up the letter with the splotch inside, and said:

      “What’s it all about, now?”

      Winifred recited the story of the pearls calmly.

      “Do you think he’s really gone, Soames? You see the state he was
      in when he wrote that.”

      Soames who, when he desired a thing, placated Providence by
      pretending that he did not think it likely to happen, answered:

      “I shouldn’t think so. I might find out at his Club.”

      “If George is there,” said Winifred, “he would know.”

      “George?” said Soames; “I saw him at his father’s funeral.”

      “Then he’s sure to be there.”

      Soames, whose good sense applauded his sister’s acumen, said
      grudgingly: “Well, I’ll go round. Have you said anything in Park
      Lane?”

      “I’ve told Emily,” returned Winifred, who retained that “chic”
      way of describing her mother. “Father would have a fit.”

      Indeed, anything untoward was now sedulously kept from James.
      With another look round at the furniture, as if to gauge his
      sister’s exact position, Soames went out towards Piccadilly. The
      evening was drawing in—a touch of chill in the October haze. He
      walked quickly, with his close and concentrated air. He must get
      through, for he wished to dine in Soho. On hearing from the hall
      porter at the Iseeum that Mr. Dartie had not been in to-day, he
      looked at the trusty fellow and decided only to ask if Mr. George
      Forsyte was in the Club. He was. Soames, who always looked
      askance at his cousin George, as one inclined to jest at his
      expense, followed the pageboy, slightly reassured by the thought
      that George had just lost his father. He must have come in for
      about thirty thousand, besides what he had under that settlement
      of Roger’s, which had avoided death duty. He found George in a
      bow-window, staring out across a half-eaten plate of muffins. His
      tall, bulky, black-clothed figure loomed almost threatening,
      though preserving still the supernatural neatness of the racing
      man. With a faint grin on his fleshy face, he said:

      “Hallo, Soames! Have a muffin?”

      “No, thanks,” murmured Soames; and, nursing his hat, with the
      desire to say something suitable and sympathetic, added:

      “How’s your mother?”

      “Thanks,” said George; “so-so. Haven’t seen you for ages. You
      never go racing. How’s the City?”

      Soames, scenting the approach of a jest, closed up, and answered:

      “I wanted to ask you about Dartie. I hear he’s....”

      “Flitted, made a bolt to Buenos Aires with the fair Lola. Good
      for Winifred and the little Darties. He’s a treat.”

      Soames nodded. Naturally inimical as these cousins were, Dartie
      made them kin.

      “Uncle James’ll sleep in his bed now,” resumed George; “I suppose
      he’s had a lot off you, too.”

      Soames smiled.

      “Ah! You saw him further,” said George amicably. “He’s a real
      rouser. Young Val will want a bit of looking after. I was always
      sorry for Winifred. She’s a plucky woman.”

      Again Soames nodded. “I must be getting back to her,” he said;
      “she just wanted to know for certain. We may have to take steps.
      I suppose there’s no mistake?”

      “It’s quite O.K.,” said George—it was he who invented so many of
      those quaint sayings which have been assigned to other sources.
      “He was drunk as a lord last night; but he went off all right
      this morning. His ship’s the _Tuscarora;_” and, fishing out a
      card, he read mockingly:

      “‘Mr. Montague Dartie, Poste Restante, Buenos Aires.’ I should
      hurry up with the steps, if I were you. He fairly fed me up last
      night.”

      “Yes,” said Soames; “but it’s not always easy.” Then, conscious
      from George’s eyes that he had roused reminiscence of his own
      affair, he got up, and held out his hand. George rose too.

      “Remember me to Winifred.... You’ll enter her for the Divorce
      Stakes straight off if you ask me.”

      Soames took a sidelong look back at him from the doorway. George
      had seated himself again and was staring before him; he looked
      big and lonely in those black clothes. Soames had never known him
      so subdued. “I suppose he feels it in a way,” he thought. “They
      must have about fifty thousand each, all told. They ought to keep
      the estate together. If there’s a war, house property will go
      down. Uncle Roger was a good judge, though.” And the face of
      Annette rose before him in the darkening street; her brown hair
      and her blue eyes with their dark lashes, her fresh lips and
      cheeks, dewy and blooming in spite of London, her perfect French
      figure. “Take steps!” he thought. Re-entering Winifred’s house he
      encountered Val, and they went in together. An idea had occurred
      to Soames. His cousin Jolyon was Irene’s trustee, the first step
      would be to go down and see him at Robin Hill. Robin Hill! The
      odd—the very odd feeling those words brought back! Robin Hill—the
      house Bosinney had built for him and Irene—the house they had
      never lived in—the fatal house! And Jolyon lived there now! H’m!
      And suddenly he thought: “They say he’s got a boy at Oxford! Why
      not take young Val down and introduce them! It’s an excuse! Less
      bald—very much less bald!” So, as they went upstairs, he said to
      Val:

      “You’ve got a cousin at Oxford; you’ve never met him. I should
      like to take you down with me to-morrow to where he lives and
      introduce you. You’ll find it useful.”

      Val, receiving the idea with but moderate transports, Soames
      clinched it.

      “I’ll call for you after lunch. It’s in the country—not far;
      you’ll enjoy it.”

      On the threshold of the drawing-room he recalled with an effort
      that the steps he contemplated concerned Winifred at the moment,
      not himself.

      Winifred was still sitting at her Buhl bureau.

      “It’s quite true,” he said; “he’s gone to Buenos Aires, started
      this morning—we’d better have him shadowed when he lands. I’ll
      cable at once. Otherwise we may have a lot of expense. The sooner
      these things are done the better. I’m always regretting that I
      didn’t...” he stopped, and looked sidelong at the silent
      Winifred. “By the way,” he went on, “can you prove cruelty?”

      Winifred said in a dull voice:

      “I don’t know. What is cruelty?”

      “Well, has he struck you, or anything?”

      Winifred shook herself, and her jaw grew square.

      “He twisted my arm. Or would pointing a pistol count? Or being
      too drunk to undress himself, or—No—I can’t bring in the
      children.”

      “No,” said Soames; “no! I wonder! Of course, there’s legal
      separation—we can get that. But separation! Um!”

      “What does it mean?” asked Winifred desolately.

      “That he can’t touch you, or you him; you’re both of you married
      and unmarried.” And again he grunted. What was it, in fact, but
      his own accursed position, legalised! No, he would not put her
      into that!

      “It must be divorce,” he said decisively; “failing cruelty,
      there’s desertion. There’s a way of shortening the two years,
      now. We get the Court to give us restitution of conjugal rights.
      Then if he doesn’t obey, we can bring a suit for divorce in six
      months’ time. Of course you don’t want him back. But they won’t
      know that. Still, there’s the risk that he might come. I’d rather
      try cruelty.”

      Winifred shook her head. “It’s so beastly.”

      “Well,” Soames murmured, “perhaps there isn’t much risk so long
      as he’s infatuated and got money. Don’t say anything to anybody,
      and don’t pay any of his debts.”

      Winifred sighed. In spite of all she had been through, the sense
      of loss was heavy on her. And this idea of not paying his debts
      any more brought it home to her as nothing else yet had. Some
      richness seemed to have gone out of life. Without her husband,
      without her pearls, without that intimate sense that she made a
      brave show above the domestic whirlpool, she would now have to
      face the world. She felt bereaved indeed.

      And into the chilly kiss he placed on her forehead, Soames put
      more than his usual warmth.

      “I have to go down to Robin Hill to-morrow,” he said, “to see
      young Jolyon on business. He’s got a boy at Oxford. I’d like to
      take Val with me and introduce him. Come down to ‘The Shelter’
      for the week-end and bring the children. Oh! by the way, no, that
      won’t do; I’ve got some other people coming.” So saying, he left
      her and turned towards Soho.




      CHAPTER IV SOHO


      Of all quarters in the queer adventurous amalgam called London,
      Soho is perhaps least suited to the Forsyte spirit. “So-ho, my
      wild one!” George would have said if he had seen his cousin going
      there. Untidy, full of Greeks, Ishmaelites, cats, Italians,
      tomatoes, restaurants, organs, coloured stuffs, queer names,
      people looking out of upper windows, it dwells remote from the
      British Body Politic. Yet has it haphazard proprietary instincts
      of its own, and a certain possessive prosperity which keeps its
      rents up when those of other quarters go down. For long years
      Soames’ acquaintanceship with Soho had been confined to its
      Western bastion, Wardour Street. Many bargains had he picked up
      there. Even during those seven years at Brighton after Bosinney’s
      death and Irene’s flight, he had bought treasures there
      sometimes, though he had no place to put them; for when the
      conviction that his wife had gone for good at last became firm
      within him, he had caused a board to be put up in Montpellier
      Square:

      FOR SALE
      THE LEASE OF THIS DESIRABLE RESIDENCE
      Enquire of Messrs. Lesson and Tukes, Court Street, Belgravia.

      It had sold within a week—that desirable residence, in the shadow
      of whose perfection a man and a woman had eaten their hearts out.

      Of a misty January evening, just before the board was taken down,
      Soames had gone there once more, and stood against the Square
      railings, looking at its unlighted windows, chewing the cud of
      possessive memories which had turned so bitter in the mouth. Why
      had she never loved him? Why? She had been given all she had
      wanted, and in return had given him, for three long years, all he
      had wanted—except, indeed, her heart. He had uttered a little
      involuntary groan, and a passing policeman had glanced
      suspiciously at him who no longer possessed the right to enter
      that green door with the carved brass knocker beneath the board
      “For Sale!” A choking sensation had attacked his throat, and he
      had hurried away into the mist. That evening he had gone to
      Brighton to live....

      Approaching Malta Street, Soho, and the Restaurant Bretagne,
      where Annette would be drooping her pretty shoulders over her
      accounts, Soames thought with wonder of those seven years at
      Brighton. How had he managed to go on so long in that town devoid
      of the scent of sweetpeas, where he had not even space to put his
      treasures? True, those had been years with no time at all for
      looking at them—years of almost passionate money-making, during
      which Forsyte, Bustard and Forsyte had become solicitors to more
      limited Companies than they could properly attend to. Up to the
      City of a morning in a Pullman car, down from the City of an
      evening in a Pullman car. Law papers again after dinner, then the
      sleep of the tired, and up again next morning. Saturday to Monday
      was spent at his Club in town—curious reversal of customary
      procedure, based on the deep and careful instinct that while
      working so hard he needed sea air to and from the station twice a
      day, and while resting must indulge his domestic affections. The
      Sunday visit to his family in Park Lane, to Timothy’s, and to
      Green Street; the occasional visits elsewhere had seemed to him
      as necessary to health as sea air on weekdays. Even since his
      migration to Mapledurham he had maintained those habits until—he
      had known Annette.

      Whether Annette had produced the revolution in his outlook, or
      that outlook had produced Annette, he knew no more than we know
      where a circle begins. It was intricate and deeply involved with
      the growing consciousness that property without anyone to leave
      it to is the negation of true Forsyteism. To have an heir, some
      continuance of self, who would begin where he left off—ensure, in
      fact, that he would not leave off—had quite obsessed him for the
      last year and more. After buying a bit of Wedgwood one evening in
      April, he had dropped into Malta Street to look at a house of his
      father’s which had been turned into a restaurant—a risky
      proceeding, and one not quite in accordance with the terms of the
      lease. He had stared for a little at the outside painted a good
      cream colour, with two peacock-blue tubs containing little
      bay-trees in a recessed doorway—and at the words “Restaurant
      Bretagne” above them in gold letters, rather favourably
      impressed. Entering, he had noticed that several people were
      already seated at little round green tables with little pots of
      fresh flowers on them and Brittany-ware plates, and had asked of
      a trim waitress to see the proprietor. They had shown him into a
      back room, where a girl was sitting at a simple bureau covered
      with papers, and a small round, table was laid for two. The
      impression of cleanliness, order, and good taste was confirmed
      when the girl got up, saying, “You wish to see _Maman,
      Monsieur?_” in a broken accent.

      “Yes,” Soames had answered, “I represent your landlord; in fact,
      I’m his son.”

      “Won’t you sit down, sir, please? Tell _Maman_ to come to this
      gentleman.”

      He was pleased that the girl seemed impressed, because it showed
      business instinct; and suddenly he noticed that she was
      remarkably pretty—so remarkably pretty that his eyes found a
      difficulty in leaving her face. When she moved to put a chair for
      him, she swayed in a curious subtle way, as if she had been put
      together by someone with a special secret skill; and her face and
      neck, which was a little bared, looked as fresh as if they had
      been sprayed with dew. Probably at this moment Soames decided
      that the lease had not been violated; though to himself and his
      father he based the decision on the efficiency of those illicit
      adaptations in the building, on the signs of prosperity, and the
      obvious business capacity of Madame Lamotte. He did not, however,
      neglect to leave certain matters to future consideration, which
      had necessitated further visits, so that the little back room had
      become quite accustomed to his spare, not unsolid, but
      unobtrusive figure, and his pale, chinny face with clipped
      moustache and dark hair not yet grizzling at the sides.

      “_Un Monsieur très distingué_,” Madame Lamotte found him; and
      presently, “_Très amical, très gentil_,” watching his eyes upon
      her daughter.

      She was one of those generously built, fine-faced, dark-haired
      Frenchwomen, whose every action and tone of voice inspire perfect
      confidence in the thoroughness of their domestic tastes, their
      knowledge of cooking, and the careful increase of their bank
      balances.

      After those visits to the Restaurant Bretagne began, other visits
      ceased—without, indeed, any definite decision, for Soames, like
      all Forsytes, and the great majority of their countrymen, was a
      born empiricist. But it was this change in his mode of life which
      had gradually made him so definitely conscious that he desired to
      alter his condition from that of the unmarried married man to
      that of the married man remarried.

      Turning into Malta Street on this evening of early October, 1899,
      he bought a paper to see if there were any after-development of
      the Dreyfus case—a question which he had always found useful in
      making closer acquaintanceship with Madame Lamotte and her
      daughter, who were Catholic and anti-Dreyfusard.

      Scanning those columns, Soames found nothing French, but noticed
      a general fall on the Stock Exchange and an ominous leader about
      the Transvaal. He entered, thinking: “War’s a certainty. I shall
      sell my consols.” Not that he had many, personally, the rate of
      interest was too wretched; but he should advise his
      Companies—consols would assuredly go down. A look, as he passed
      the doorways of the restaurant, assured him that business was
      good as ever, and this, which in April would have pleased him,
      now gave him a certain uneasiness. If the steps which he had to
      take ended in his marrying Annette, he would rather see her
      mother safely back in France, a move to which the prosperity of
      the Restaurant Bretagne might become an obstacle. He would have
      to buy them out, of course, for French people only came to
      England to make money; and it would mean a higher price. And then
      that peculiar sweet sensation at the back of his throat, and a
      slight thumping about the heart, which he always experienced at
      the door of the little room, prevented his thinking how much it
      would cost.

      Going in, he was conscious of an abundant black skirt vanishing
      through the door into the restaurant, and of Annette with her
      hands up to her hair. It was the attitude in which of all others
      he admired her—so beautifully straight and rounded and supple.
      And he said:

      “I just came in to talk to your mother about pulling down that
      partition. No, don’t call her.”

      “_Monsieur_ will have supper with us? It will be ready in ten
      minutes.” Soames, who still held her hand, was overcome by an
      impulse which surprised him.

      “You look so pretty to-night,” he said, “so very pretty. Do you
      know how pretty you look, Annette?”

      Annette withdrew her hand, and blushed. “Monsieur is very good.”

      “Not a bit good,” said Soames, and sat down gloomily.

      Annette made a little expressive gesture with her hands; a smile
      was crinkling her red lips untouched by salve.

      And, looking at those lips, Soames said:

      “Are you happy over here, or do you want to go back to France?”

      “Oh, I like London. Paris, of course. But London is better than
      Orleans, and the English country is so beautiful. I have been to
      Richmond last Sunday.”

      Soames went through a moment of calculating struggle.
      Mapledurham! Dared he? After all, dared he go so far as that, and
      show her what there was to look forward to! Still! Down there one
      could say things. In this room it was impossible.

      “I want you and your mother,” he said suddenly, “to come for the
      afternoon next Sunday. My house is on the river, it’s not too
      late in this weather; and I can show you some good pictures. What
      do you say?”

      Annette clasped her hands.

      “It will be lovelee. The river is so beautiful”

      “That’s understood, then. I’ll ask Madame.”

      He need say no more to her this evening, and risk giving himself
      away. But had he not already said too much? Did one ask
      restaurant proprietors with pretty daughters down to one’s
      country house without design? Madame Lamotte would see, if
      Annette didn’t. Well! there was not much that Madame did not see.
      Besides, this was the second time he had stayed to supper with
      them; he owed them hospitality.

      Walking home towards Park Lane—for he was staying at his
      father’s—with the impression of Annette’s soft clever hand within
      his own, his thoughts were pleasant, slightly sensual, rather
      puzzled. Take steps! What steps? How? Dirty linen washed in
      public? Pah! With his reputation for sagacity, for
      far-sightedness and the clever extrication of others, he, who
      stood for proprietary interests, to become the plaything of that
      Law of which he was a pillar! There was something revolting in
      the thought! Winifred’s affair was bad enough! To have a double
      dose of publicity in the family! Would not a liaison be better
      than that—a liaison, and a son he could adopt? But dark, solid,
      watchful, Madame Lamotte blocked the avenue of that vision. No!
      that would not work. It was not as if Annette could have a real
      passion for him; one could not expect that at his age. If her
      mother wished, if the worldly advantage were manifestly
      great—perhaps! If not, refusal would be certain. Besides, he
      thought: “I’m not a villain. I don’t want to hurt her; and I
      don’t want anything underhand. But I do want her, and I want a
      son! There’s nothing for it but divorce—somehow—anyhow—divorce!”
      Under the shadow of the plane-trees, in the lamplight, he passed
      slowly along the railings of the Green Park. Mist clung there
      among the bluish tree shapes, beyond range of the lamps. How many
      hundred times he had walked past those trees from his father’s
      house in Park Lane, when he was quite a young man; or from his
      own house in Montpellier Square in those four years of married
      life! And, to-night, making up his mind to free himself if he
      could of that long useless marriage tie, he took a fancy to walk
      on, in at Hyde Park Corner, out at Knightsbridge Gate, just as he
      used to when going home to Irene in the old days. What could she
      be like now?—how had she passed the years since he last saw her,
      twelve years in all, seven already since Uncle Jolyon left her
      that money? Was she still beautiful? Would he know her if he saw
      her? “I’ve not changed much,” he thought; “I expect she has. She
      made me suffer.” He remembered suddenly one night, the first on
      which he went out to dinner alone—an old Malburian dinner—the
      first year of their marriage. With what eagerness he had hurried
      back; and, entering softly as a cat, had heard her playing.
      Opening the drawing-room door noiselessly, he had stood watching
      the expression on her face, different from any he knew, so much
      more open, so confiding, as though to her music she was giving a
      heart he had never seen. And he remembered how she stopped and
      looked round, how her face changed back to that which he did
      know, and what an icy shiver had gone through him, for all that
      the next moment he was fondling her shoulders. Yes, she had made
      him suffer! Divorce! It seemed ridiculous, after all these years
      of utter separation! But it would have to be. No other way! “The
      question,” he thought with sudden realism, “is—which of us? She
      or me? She deserted me. She ought to pay for it. There’ll be
      someone, I suppose.” Involuntarily he uttered a little snarling
      sound, and, turning, made his way back to Park Lane.




      CHAPTER V JAMES SEES VISIONS


      The butler himself opened the door, and closing it softly,
      detained Soames on the inner mat.

      “The master’s poorly, sir,” he murmured. “He wouldn’t go to bed
      till you came in. He’s still in the diningroom.”

      Soames responded in the hushed tone to which the house was now
      accustomed.

      “What’s the matter with him, Warmson?”

      “Nervous, sir, I think. Might be the funeral; might be Mrs.
      Dartie’s comin’ round this afternoon. I think he overheard
      something. I’ve took him in a negus. The mistress has just gone
      up.”

      Soames hung his hat on a mahogany stag’s-horn.

      “All right, Warmson, you can go to bed; I’ll take him up myself.”
      And he passed into the dining-room.

      James was sitting before the fire, in a big armchair, with a
      camel-hair shawl, very light and warm, over his frock-coated
      shoulders, on to which his long white whiskers drooped. His white
      hair, still fairly thick, glistened in the lamplight; a little
      moisture from his fixed, light-grey eyes stained the cheeks,
      still quite well coloured, and the long deep furrows running to
      the corners of the clean-shaven lips, which moved as if mumbling
      thoughts. His long legs, thin as a crow’s, in shepherd’s plaid
      trousers, were bent at less than a right angle, and on one knee a
      spindly hand moved continually, with fingers wide apart and
      glistening tapered nails. Beside him, on a low stool, stood a
      half-finished glass of negus, bedewed with beads of heat. There
      he had been sitting, with intervals for meals, all day. At
      eighty-eight he was still organically sound, but suffering
      terribly from the thought that no one ever told him anything. It
      is, indeed, doubtful how he had become aware that Roger was being
      buried that day, for Emily had kept it from him. She was always
      keeping things from him. Emily was only seventy! James had a
      grudge against his wife’s youth. He felt sometimes that he would
      never have married her if he had known that she would have so
      many years before her, when he had so few. It was not natural.
      She would live fifteen or twenty years after he was gone, and
      might spend a lot of money; she had always had extravagant
      tastes. For all he knew she might want to buy one of these
      motor-cars. Cicely and Rachel and Imogen and all the young
      people—they all rode those bicycles now and went off Goodness
      knew where. And now Roger was gone. He didn’t know—couldn’t tell!
      The family was breaking up. Soames would know how much his uncle
      had left. Curiously he thought of Roger as Soames’ uncle not as
      his own brother. Soames! It was more and more the one solid spot
      in a vanishing world. Soames was careful; he was a warm man; but
      he had no one to leave his money to. There it was! He didn’t
      know! And there was that fellow Chamberlain! For James’ political
      principles had been fixed between ’70 and ’85 when “that rascally
      Radical” had been the chief thorn in the side of property and he
      distrusted him to this day in spite of his conversion; he would
      get the country into a mess and make money go down before he had
      done with it. A stormy petrel of a chap! Where was Soames? He had
      gone to the funeral of course which they had tried to keep from
      him. He knew that perfectly well; he had seen his son’s trousers.
      Roger! Roger in his coffin! He remembered how, when they came up
      from school together from the West, on the box seat of the old
      Slowflyer in 1824, Roger had got into the “boot” and gone to
      sleep. James uttered a thin cackle. A funny fellow—Roger—an
      original! He didn’t know! Younger than himself, and in his
      coffin! The family was breaking up. There was Val going to the
      university; he never came to see him now. He would cost a pretty
      penny up there. It was an extravagant age. And all the pretty
      pennies that his four grandchildren would cost him danced before
      James’ eyes. He did not grudge them the money, but he grudged
      terribly the risk which the spending of that money might bring on
      them; _he grudged the diminution of security_. And now that
      Cicely had married, she might be having children too. He didn’t
      know—couldn’t tell! Nobody thought of anything but spending money
      in these days, and racing about, and having what they called “a
      good time.” A motor-car went past the window. Ugly great
      lumbering thing, making all that racket! But there it was, the
      country rattling to the dogs! People in such a hurry that they
      couldn’t even care for style—a neat turnout like his barouche and
      bays was worth all those new-fangled things. And consols at 116!
      There must be a lot of money in the country. And now there was
      this old Kruger! They had tried to keep old Kruger from him. But
      he knew better; there would be a pretty kettle of fish out there!
      He had known how it would be when that fellow Gladstone—dead now,
      thank God! made such a mess of it after that dreadful business at
      Majuba. He shouldn’t wonder if the Empire split up and went to
      pot. And this vision of the Empire going to pot filled a full
      quarter of an hour with qualms of the most serious character. He
      had eaten a poor lunch because of them. But it was after lunch
      that the real disaster to his nerves occurred. He had been dozing
      when he became aware of voices—low voices. Ah! they never told
      him anything! Winifred’s and her mother’s. “Monty!” That fellow
      Dartie—always that fellow Dartie! The voices had receded; and
      James had been left alone, with his ears standing up like a
      hare’s, and fear creeping about his inwards. Why did they leave
      him alone? Why didn’t they come and tell him? And an awful
      thought, which through long years had haunted him, concreted
      again swiftly in his brain. Dartie had gone bankrupt—fraudulently
      bankrupt, and to save Winifred and the children, he—James—would
      have to pay! Could he—could Soames turn him into a limited
      company? No, he couldn’t! There it was! With every minute before
      Emily came back the spectre fiercened. Why, it might be forgery!
      With eyes fixed on the doubted Turner in the centre of the wall,
      James suffered tortures. He saw Dartie in the dock, his
      grandchildren in the gutter, and himself in bed. He saw the
      doubted Turner being sold at Jobson’s, and all the majestic
      edifice of property in rags. He saw in fancy Winifred
      unfashionably dressed, and heard in fancy Emily’s voice saying:
      “Now, don’t fuss, James!” She was always saying: “Don’t fuss!”
      She had no nerves; he ought never to have married a woman
      eighteen years younger than himself. Then Emily’s real voice
      said:

      “Have you had a nice nap, James?”

      Nap! He was in torment, and she asked him that!

      “What’s this about Dartie?” he said, and his eyes glared at her.

      Emily’s self-possession never deserted her.

      “What have you been hearing?” she asked blandly.

      “What’s this about Dartie?” repeated James. “He’s gone bankrupt.”

      “Fiddle!”

      James made a great effort, and rose to the full height of his
      stork-like figure.

      “You never tell me anything,” he said; “he’s gone bankrupt.”

      The destruction of that fixed idea seemed to Emily all that
      mattered at the moment.

      “He has not,” she answered firmly. “He’s gone to Buenos Aires.”

      If she had said “He’s gone to Mars” she could not have dealt
      James a more stunning blow; his imagination, invested entirely in
      British securities, could as little grasp one place as the other.

      “What’s he gone there for?” he said. “He’s got no money. What did
      he take?”

      Agitated within by Winifred’s news, and goaded by the constant
      reiteration of this jeremiad, Emily said calmly:

      “He took Winifred’s pearls and a dancer.”

      “What!” said James, and sat down.

      His sudden collapse alarmed her, and smoothing his forehead, she
      said:

      “Now, don’t fuss, James!”

      A dusky red had spread over James’ cheeks and forehead.

      “I paid for them,” he said tremblingly; “he’s a thief! I—I knew
      how it would be. He’ll be the death of me; he ....” Words failed
      him and he sat quite still. Emily, who thought she knew him so
      well, was alarmed, and went towards the sideboard where she kept
      some sal volatile. She could not see the tenacious Forsyte spirit
      working in that thin, tremulous shape against the extravagance of
      the emotion called up by this outrage on Forsyte principles—the
      Forsyte spirit deep in there, saying: “You mustn’t get into a
      fantod, it’ll never do. You won’t digest your lunch. You’ll have
      a fit!” All unseen by her, it was doing better work in James than
      sal volatile.

      “Drink this,” she said.

      James waved it aside.

      “What was Winifred about,” he said, “to let him take her pearls?”
      Emily perceived the crisis past.

      “She can have mine,” she said comfortably. “I never wear them.
      She’d better get a divorce.”

      “There you go!” said James. “Divorce! We’ve never had a divorce
      in the family. Where’s Soames?”

      “He’ll be in directly.”

      “No, he won’t,” said James, almost fiercely; “he’s at the
      funeral. You think I know nothing.”

      “Well,” said Emily with calm, “you shouldn’t get into such fusses
      when we tell you things.” And plumping up his cushions, and
      putting the sal volatile beside him, she left the room.

      But James sat there seeing visions—of Winifred in the Divorce
      Court, and the family name in the papers; of the earth falling on
      Roger’s coffin; of Val taking after his father; of the pearls he
      had paid for and would never see again; of money back at four per
      cent., and the country going to the dogs; and, as the afternoon
      wore into evening, and tea-time passed, and dinnertime, those
      visions became more and more mixed and menacing—of being told
      nothing, till he had nothing left of all his wealth, and they
      told him nothing of it. Where was Soames? Why didn’t he come
      in?... His hand grasped the glass of negus, he raised it to
      drink, and saw his son standing there looking at him. A little
      sigh of relief escaped his lips, and putting the glass down, he
      said:

      “There you are! Dartie’s gone to Buenos Aires.”

      Soames nodded. “That’s all right,” he said; “good riddance.”

      A wave of assuagement passed over James’ brain. Soames knew.
      Soames was the only one of them all who had sense. Why couldn’t
      he come and live at home? He had no son of his own. And he said
      plaintively:

      “At my age I get nervous. I wish you were more at home, my boy.”

      Again Soames nodded; the mask of his countenance betrayed no
      understanding, but he went closer, and as if by accident touched
      his father’s shoulder.

      “They sent their love to you at Timothy’s,” he said. “It went off
      all right. I’ve been to see Winifred. I’m going to take steps.”
      And he thought: “Yes, and you mustn’t hear of them.”

      James looked up; his long white whiskers quivered, his thin
      throat between the points of his collar looked very gristly and
      naked.

      “I’ve been very poorly all day,” he said; “they never tell me
      anything.”

      Soames’ heart twitched.

      “Well, it’s all right. There’s nothing to worry about. Will you
      come up now?” and he put his hand under his father’s arm.

      James obediently and tremulously raised himself, and together
      they went slowly across the room, which had a rich look in the
      firelight, and out to the stairs. Very slowly they ascended.

      “Good-night, my boy,” said James at his bedroom door.

      “Good-night, father,” answered Soames. His hand stroked down the
      sleeve beneath the shawl; it seemed to have almost nothing in it,
      so thin was the arm. And, turning away from the light in the
      opening doorway, he went up the extra flight to his own bedroom.

      “I want a son,” he thought, sitting on the edge of his bed; “_I
      want a son_.”




      CHAPTER VI NO-LONGER-YOUNG JOLYON AT HOME


      Trees take little account of time, and the old oak on the upper
      lawn at Robin Hill looked no day older than when Bosinney
      sprawled under it and said to Soames: “Forsyte, I’ve found the
      very place for your house.” Since then Swithin had dreamed, and
      old Jolyon died, beneath its branches. And now, close to the
      swing, no-longer-young Jolyon often painted there. Of all spots
      in the world it was perhaps the most sacred to him, for he had
      loved his father.

      Contemplating its great girth—crinkled and a little mossed, but
      not yet hollow—he would speculate on the passage of time. That
      tree had seen, perhaps, all real English history; it dated, he
      shouldn’t wonder, from the days of Elizabeth at least. His own
      fifty years were as nothing to its wood. When the house behind
      it, which he now owned, was three hundred years of age instead of
      twelve, that tree might still be standing there, vast and
      hollow—for who would commit such sacrilege as to cut it down? A
      Forsyte might perhaps still be living in that house, to guard it
      jealously. And Jolyon would wonder what the house would look like
      coated with such age. Wistaria was already about its walls—the
      new look had gone. Would it hold its own and keep the dignity
      Bosinney had bestowed on it, or would the giant London have
      lapped it round and made it into an asylum in the midst of a
      jerry-built wilderness? Often, within and without of it, he was
      persuaded that Bosinney had been moved by the spirit when he
      built. He had put his heart into that house, indeed! It might
      even become one of the “homes of England”—a rare achievement for
      a house in these degenerate days of building. And the aesthetic
      spirit, moving hand in hand with his Forsyte sense of possessive
      continuity, dwelt with pride and pleasure on his ownership
      thereof. There was the smack of reverence and ancestor-worship
      (if only for one ancestor) in his desire to hand this house down
      to his son and his son’s son. His father had loved the house, had
      loved the view, the grounds, that tree; his last years had been
      happy there, and no one had lived there before him. These last
      eleven years at Robin Hill had formed in Jolyon’s life as a
      painter, the important period of success. He was now in the very
      van of water-colour art, hanging on the line everywhere. His
      drawings fetched high prices. Specialising in that one medium
      with the tenacity of his breed, he had “arrived”—rather late, but
      not too late for a member of the family which made a point of
      living for ever. His art had really deepened and improved. In
      conformity with his position he had grown a short fair beard,
      which was just beginning to grizzle, and hid his Forsyte chin;
      his brown face had lost the warped expression of his ostracised
      period—he looked, if anything, younger. The loss of his wife in
      1894 had been one of those domestic tragedies which turn out in
      the end for the good of all. He had, indeed, loved her to the
      last, for his was an affectionate spirit, but she had become
      increasingly difficult: jealous of her step-daughter June,
      jealous even of her own little daughter Holly, and making
      ceaseless plaint that he could not love her, ill as she was, and
      “useless to everyone, and better dead.” He had mourned her
      sincerely, but his face had looked younger since she died. If she
      could only have believed that she made him happy, how much
      happier would the twenty years of their companionship have been!

      June had never really got on well with her who had reprehensibly
      taken her own mother’s place; and ever since old Jolyon died she
      had been established in a sort of studio in London. But she had
      come back to Robin Hill on her stepmother’s death, and gathered
      the reins there into her small decided hands. Jolly was then at
      Harrow; Holly still learning from Mademoiselle Beauce. There had
      been nothing to keep Jolyon at home, and he had removed his grief
      and his paint-box abroad. There he had wandered, for the most
      part in Brittany, and at last had fetched up in Paris. He had
      stayed there several months, and come back with the younger face
      and the short fair beard. Essentially a man who merely lodged in
      any house, it had suited him perfectly that June should reign at
      Robin Hill, so that he was free to go off with his easel where
      and when he liked. She was inclined, it is true, to regard the
      house rather as an asylum for her _protégés;_ but his own outcast
      days had filled Jolyon for ever with sympathy towards an outcast,
      and June’s “lame ducks” about the place did not annoy him. By all
      means let her have them down—and feed them up; and though his
      slightly cynical humour perceived that they ministered to his
      daughter’s love of domination as well as moved her warm heart, he
      never ceased to admire her for having so many ducks. He fell,
      indeed, year by year into a more and more detached and brotherly
      attitude towards his own son and daughters, treating them with a
      sort of whimsical equality. When he went down to Harrow to see
      Jolly, he never quite knew which of them was the elder, and would
      sit eating cherries with him out of one paper bag, with an
      affectionate and ironical smile twisting up an eyebrow and
      curling his lips a little. And he was always careful to have
      money in his pocket, and to be modish in his dress, so that his
      son need not blush for him. They were perfect friends, but never
      seemed to have occasion for verbal confidences, both having the
      competitive self-consciousness of Forsytes. They knew they would
      stand by each other in scrapes, but there was no need to talk
      about it. Jolyon had a striking horror—partly original sin, but
      partly the result of his early immorality—of the moral attitude.
      The most he could ever have said to his son would have been:

      “Look here, old man; don’t forget you’re a gentleman,” and then
      have wondered whimsically whether that was not a snobbish
      sentiment. The great cricket match was perhaps the most searching
      and awkward time they annually went through together, for Jolyon
      had been at Eton. They would be particularly careful during that
      match, continually saying: “Hooray! Oh! hard luck, old man!” or
      “Hooray! Oh! bad luck, Dad!” to each other, when some disaster at
      which their hearts bounded happened to the opposing school. And
      Jolyon would wear a grey top hat, instead of his usual soft one,
      to save his son’s feelings, for a black top hat he could not
      stomach. When Jolly went up to Oxford, Jolyon went up with him,
      amused, humble, and a little anxious not to discredit his boy
      amongst all these youths who seemed so much more assured and old
      than himself. He often thought, “Glad I’m a painter” for he had
      long dropped under-writing at Lloyds—“it’s so innocuous. You
      can’t look down on a painter—you can’t take him seriously
      enough.” For Jolly, who had a sort of natural lordliness, had
      passed at once into a very small set, who secretly amused his
      father. The boy had fair hair which curled a little, and his
      grandfather’s deepset iron-grey eyes. He was well-built and very
      upright, and always pleased Jolyon’s aesthetic sense, so that he
      was a tiny bit afraid of him, as artists ever are of those of
      their own sex whom they admire physically. On that occasion,
      however, he actually did screw up his courage to give his son
      advice, and this was it:

      “Look here, old man, you’re bound to get into debt; mind you come
      to me at once. Of course, I’ll always pay them. But you might
      remember that one respects oneself more afterwards if one pays
      one’s own way. And don’t ever borrow, except from me, will you?”

      And Jolly had said:

      “All right, Dad, I won’t,” and he never had.

      “And there’s just one other thing. I don’t know much about
      morality and that, but there is this: It’s always worth while
      before you do anything to consider whether it’s going to hurt
      another person more than is absolutely necessary.”

      Jolly had looked thoughtful, and nodded, and presently had
      squeezed his father’s hand. And Jolyon had thought: “I wonder if
      I had the right to say that?” He always had a sort of dread of
      losing the dumb confidence they had in each other; remembering
      how for long years he had lost his own father’s, so that there
      had been nothing between them but love at a great distance. He
      under-estimated, no doubt, the change in the spirit of the age
      since he himself went up to Cambridge in ’65; and perhaps he
      underestimated, too, his boy’s power of understanding that he was
      tolerant to the very bone. It was that tolerance of his, and
      possibly his scepticism, which ever made his relations towards
      June so queerly defensive. She was such a decided mortal; knew
      her own mind so terribly well; wanted things so inexorably until
      she got them—and then, indeed, often dropped them like a hot
      potato. Her mother had been like that, whence had come all those
      tears. Not that his incompatibility with his daughter was
      anything like what it had been with the first Mrs. Young Jolyon.
      One could be amused where a daughter was concerned; in a wife’s
      case one could not be amused. To see June set her heart and jaw
      on a thing until she got it was all right, because it was never
      anything which interfered fundamentally with Jolyon’s liberty—the
      one thing on which his jaw was also absolutely rigid, a
      considerable jaw, under that short grizzling beard. Nor was there
      ever any necessity for real heart-to-heart encounters. One could
      break away into irony—as indeed he often had to. But the real
      trouble with June was that she had never appealed to his
      aesthetic sense, though she might well have, with her red-gold
      hair and her viking-coloured eyes, and that touch of the
      Berserker in her spirit. It was very different with Holly, soft
      and quiet, shy and affectionate, with a playful imp in her
      somewhere. He watched this younger daughter of his through the
      duckling stage with extraordinary interest. Would she come out a
      swan? With her sallow oval face and her grey wistful eyes and
      those long dark lashes, she might, or she might not. Only this
      last year had he been able to guess. Yes, she would be a
      swan—rather a dark one, always a shy one, but an authentic swan.
      She was eighteen now, and Mademoiselle Beauce was gone—the
      excellent lady had removed, after eleven years haunted by her
      continuous reminiscences of the “well-brrred little Tayleurs,” to
      another family whose bosom would now be agitated by her
      reminiscences of the “well-brrred little Forsytes.” She had
      taught Holly to speak French like herself.

      Portraiture was not Jolyon’s forte, but he had already drawn his
      younger daughter three times, and was drawing her a fourth, on
      the afternoon of October 4th, 1899, when a card was brought to
      him which caused his eyebrows to go up:
                     MR. SOAMES FORSYTE
           THE SHELTER,         CONNOISSEURS CLUB, MAPLEDURHAM.        
           ST. JAMES’S.
      But here the Forsyte Saga must digress again....

      To return from a long travel in Spain to a darkened house, to a
