though she were something filthy and rotten that was 
contaminating his over-shined shoes. 

“I have no use for a house-elf who disobeys me,” he 
said coldly, looking over at Hermione. “I have no use 
for a servant who forgets what is due to her master, 
and to her master’s reputation.” 

Winky was crying so hard that her sobs echoed 
around the clearing. There was a very nasty silence, 
which was ended by Mr. Weasley, who said quietly, 
“Well, I think I’ll take my lot back to the tent, if 
nobody’s got any objections. Amos, that wand’s told 
us all it can — if Harry could have it back, please — ” 

Mr. Diggory handed Harry his wand and Harry 
pocketed it. 

“Come on, you three,” Mr. Weasley said quietly. But 
Hermione didn’t seem to want to move; her eyes were 
still upon the sobbing elf. “Hermione!” Mr. Weasley 
said, more urgently. She turned and followed Harry 
and Ron out of the clearing and off through the trees. 
Page | 153 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s going to happen to Winky?” said Hermione, 
the moment they had left the clearing. 

“I don’t know,” said Mr. Weasley. 

“The way they were treating her!” said Hermione 
furiously. “Mr. Diggory, calling her ‘elf’ all the time ... 
and Mr. Crouch! He knows she didn’t do it and he’s 
still going to sack her! He didn’t care how frightened 
she’d been, or how upset she was — it was like she 
wasn’t even human!” 

“Well, she’s not,” said Ron. 

Hermione rounded on him. 

“That doesn’t mean she hasn’t got feelings, Ron. It’s 
disgusting the way — ” 

“Hermione, I agree with you,” said Mr. Weasley 
quickly, beckoning her on, “but now is not the time to 
discuss elf rights. I want to get back to the tent as 
fast as we can. What happened to the others?” 

“We lost them in the dark,” said Ron. “Dad, why was 
everyone so uptight about that skull thing?” 

“I’ll explain everything back at the tent,” said Mr. 
Weasley tensely. 

But when they reached the edge of the wood, their 
progress was impeded. A large crowd of frightened- 
looking witches and wizards was congregated there, 
and when they saw Mr. Weasley coming toward them, 
many of them surged forward. 

“What’s going on in there?” 

“Who conjured it?” 

Page | 154 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Arthur — it’s not — Him?” 



“Of course it’s not Him,” said Mr. Weasley 
impatiently. “We don’t know who it was; it looks like 
they Disapparated. Now excuse me, please, I want to 
get to bed.” 

He led Harry, Ron, and Hermione through the crowd 
and back into the campsite. All was quiet now; there 
was no sign of the masked wizards, though several 
ruined tents were still smoking. 

Charlie’s head was poking out of the boys’ tent. 

“Dad, what’s going on?” he called through the dark. 
“Fred, George, and Ginny got back okay, but the 
others — ” 

“I’ve got them here,” said Mr. Weasley, bending down 
and entering the tent. Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
entered after him. 

Bill was sitting at the small kitchen table, holding a 
bedsheet to his arm, which was bleeding profusely. 
Charlie had a large rip in his shirt, and Percy was 
sporting a bloody nose. Fred, George, and Ginny 
looked unhurt, though shaken. 

“Did you get them, Dad?” said Bill sharply. “The 
person who conjured the Mark?” 

“No,” said Mr. Weasley. “We found Barty Crouch’s elf 
holding Harry’s wand, but we’re none the wiser about 
who actually conjured the Mark.” 

“What?” said Bill, Charlie, and Percy together. 

“Harry’s wand?” said Fred. 



Page | 155 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Mr. Crouch’s elf?” said Percy, sounding 
thunderstruck. 

With some assistance from Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione, Mr. Weasley explained what had happened 
in the woods. When they had finished their story, 
Percy swelled indignantly. 

“Well, Mr. Crouch is quite right to get rid of an elf like 
that!” he said. “Running away when he’d expressly 
told her not to ... embarrassing him in front of the 
whole Ministry . . . how would that have looked, if 
she’d been brought up in front of the Department for 
the Regulation and Control — ” 

“She didn’t do anything — she was just in the wrong 
place at the wrong time!” Hermione snapped at Percy, 
who looked very taken aback. Hermione had always 
got on fairly well with Percy — better, indeed, than 
any of the others. 

“Hermione, a wizard in Mr. Crouch’s position can’t 
afford a house-elf who’s going to run amok with a 
wand!” said Percy pompously, recovering himself. 

“She didn’t run amok!” shouted Hermione. “She just 
picked it up off the ground!” 

“Look, can someone just explain what that skull thing 
was?” said Ron impatiently. “It wasn’t hurting 
anyone. ... Why’s it such a big deal?” 

“I told you, it’s You-Know-Who’s symbol, Ron,” said 
Hermione, before anyone else could answer. “I read 
about it in The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts.” 

“And it hasn’t been seen for thirteen years,” said Mr. 
Weasley quietly. “Of course people panicked ... it was 
almost like seeing You-Know-Who back again.” 

Page | 156 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t get it,” said Ron, frowning. “I mean ... it’s still 
only a shape in the sky. ...” 

“Ron, You-Know-Who and his followers sent the Dark 
Mark into the air whenever they killed,” said Mr. 
Weasley. “The terror it inspired ... you have no idea, 
you’re too young. Just picture coming home and 
finding the Dark Mark hovering over your house, and 
knowing what you’re about to find inside. ...” Mr. 
Weasley winced. “Everyone’s worst fear ... the very 
worst ...” 

There was silence for a moment. Then Bill, removing 
the sheet from his arm to check on his cut, said, 

“Well, it didn’t help us tonight, whoever conjured it. It 
scared the Death Eaters away the moment they saw 
it. They all Disapparated before we’d got near enough 
to unmask any of them. We caught the Robertses 
before they hit the ground, though. They’re having 
their memories modified right now.” 

“Death Eaters?” said Harry. “What are Death Eaters?” 

“It’s what You-Know- Who’s supporters called 
themselves,” said Bill. “I think we saw what’s left of 
them tonight — the ones who managed to keep 
themselves out of Azkaban, anyway.” 

“We can’t prove it was them, Bill,” said Mr. Weasley. 
“Though it probably was,” he added hopelessly. 

“Yeah, I bet it was!” said Ron suddenly. “Dad, we met 
Draco Malfoy in the woods, and he as good as told us 
his dad was one of those nutters in masks! And we all 
know the Malfoys were right in with You-Know-Who!” 

“But what were Voldemort’s supporters — ” Harry 
began. Everybody flinched — like most of the 
wizarding world, the Weasleys always avoided saying 

Page | 157 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort’s name. “Sorry,” said Harry quickly. “What 
were You -Know- Who’s supporters up to, levitating 
Muggles? I mean, what was the point?” 

“The point?” said Mr. Weasley with a hollow laugh. 
“Harry, that’s their idea of fun. Half the Muggle 
killings back when You-Know-Who was in power were 
done for fun. I suppose they had a few drinks tonight 
and couldn’t resist reminding us all that lots of them 
are still at large. A nice little reunion for them,” he 
finished disgustedly. 

“But if they were the Death Eaters, why did they 
Disapparate when they saw the Dark Mark?” said 
Ron. “They’d have been pleased to see it, wouldn’t 
they?” 

“Use your brains, Ron,” said Bill. “If they really were 
Death Eaters, they worked very hard to keep out of 
Azkaban when You-Know-Who lost power, and told all 
sorts of lies about him forcing them to kill and torture 
people. I bet they’d be even more frightened than the 
rest of us to see him come back. They denied they’d 
ever been involved with him when he lost his powers, 
and went back to their daily lives. ... I don’t reckon 
he’d be over-pleased with them, do you?” 

“So ... whoever conjured the Dark Mark ...” said 
Hermione slowly, “were they doing it to show support 
for the Death Eaters, or to scare them away?” 

“Your guess is as good as ours, Hermione,” said Mr. 
Weasley. “But I’ll tell you this ... it was only the Death 
Eaters who ever knew how to conjure it. I’d be very 
surprised if the person who did it hadn’t been a Death 
Eater once, even if they’re not now. ... Listen, it’s very 
late, and if your mother hears what’s happened she’ll 
be worried sick. We’ll get a few more hours sleep and 
then try and get an early Portkey out of here.” 

Page | 158 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry got back into his bunk with his head buzzing. 
He knew he ought to feel exhausted: It was nearly 
three in the morning, but he felt wide-awake — wide- 
awake, and worried. 

Three days ago — it felt like much longer, but it had 
only been three days — he had awoken with his scar 
burning. And tonight, for the first time in thirteen 
years, Lord Voldemort’s mark had appeared in the 
sky. What did these things mean? 

He thought of the letter he had written to Sirius 
before leaving Privet Drive. Would Sirius have gotten 
it yet? When would he reply? Harry lay looking up at 
the canvas, but no flying fantasies came to him now 
to ease him to sleep, and it was a long time after 
Charlie’s snores filled the tent that Harry finally dozed 
off. 



Page | 159 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




10 




MAYHEM AT THE MINISTRY 

Mr. Weasley woke them after only a few hours sleep. 
He used magic to pack up the tents, and they left the 
campsite as quickly as possible, passing Mr. Roberts 
at the door of his cottage. Mr. Roberts had a strange, 
dazed look about him, and he waved them off with a 
vague “Merry Christmas.” 

“Hell be all right,” said Mr. Weasley quietly as they 
marched off onto the moor. “Sometimes, when a 
person’s memory’s modified, it makes him a bit 
disorientated for a while . . . and that was a big thing 
they had to make him forget.” 

They heard urgent voices as they approached the spot 
where the Portkeys lay, and when they reached it, 
they found a great number of witches and wizards 
gathered around Basil, the keeper of the Portkeys, all 
clamoring to get away from the campsite as quickly as 
possible. Mr. Weasley had a hurried discussion with 
Basil; they joined the queue, and were able to take an 
old rubber tire back to Stoatshead Hill before the sun 
had really risen. They walked back through Ottery St. 
Page | 160 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



Catchpole and up the damp lane toward the Burrow 
in the dawn light, talking very little because they were 
so exhausted, and thinking longingly of their 
breakfast. As they rounded the corner and the 
Burrow came into view, a cry echoed along the lane. 

“Oh thank goodness, thank goodness!” 

Mrs. Weasley, who had evidently been waiting for 
them in the front yard, came running toward them, 
still wearing her bedroom slippers, her face pale and 
strained, a rolled-up copy of the Daily Prophet 
clutched in her hand. 

“Arthur — I’ve been so worried — so worried — ” 

She flung her arms around Mr. Weasley’s neck, and 
the Daily Prophet fell out of her limp hand onto the 
ground. Looking down, Harry saw the headline: 
SCENES OF TERROR AT THE QUIDDITCH WORLD 
CUP, complete with a twinkling black-and-white 
photograph of the Dark Mark over the treetops. 

“You’re all right,” Mrs. Weasley muttered distractedly, 
releasing Mr. Weasley and staring around at them all 
with red eyes, “you’re alive. ... Oh boys ...” 

And to everybody’s surprise, she seized Fred and 
George and pulled them both into such a tight hug 
that their heads banged together. 

“ Ouch\ Mum — you’re strangling us — ” 

“I shouted at you before you left!” Mrs. Weasley said, 
starting to sob. “It’s all I’ve been thinking about! What 
if You-Know-Who had got you, and the last thing I 
ever said to you was that you didn’t get enough 
O.W.L.s? Oh Fred ... George ...” 



Page | 161 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on, now, Molly, we’re all perfectly okay,” said 
Mr. Weasley soothingly, prising her off the twins and 
leading her back toward the house. “Bill,” he added in 
an undertone, “pick up that paper, I want to see what 
it says. ...” 

When they were all crammed into the tiny kitchen, 
and Hermione had made Mrs. Weasley a cup of very 
strong tea, into which Mr. Weasley insisted on 
pouring a shot of Ogdens Old Firewhiskey, Bill 
handed his father the newspaper. Mr. Weasley 
scanned the front page while Percy looked over his 
shoulder. 

“I knew it,” said Mr. Weasley heavily. “Ministry 
blunders ... culprits not apprehended ... lax security ... 
Dark wizards running unchecked . . . national disgrace 
... Who wrote this? Ah ... of course ... Rita Skeeter.” 

“That woman’s got it in for the Ministry of Magic!” 
said Percy furiously. “Last week she was saying we’re 
wasting our time quibbling about cauldron thickness, 
when we should be stamping out vampires! As if it 
wasn’t specifically stated in paragraph twelve of the 
Guidelines for the Treatment of Non-Wizard Part- 
Humans — ” 

“Do us a favor, Perce,” said Bill, yawning, “and shut 
up.” 

“I’m mentioned,” said Mr. Weasley, his eyes widening 
behind his glasses as he reached the bottom of the 
Daily Prophet article. 

“Where?” spluttered Mrs. Weasley, choking on her tea 
and whiskey. “If I’d seen that, I’d have known you 
were alive!” 



Page | 162 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Not by name,” said Mr. Weasley. “Listen to this: ‘If 
the terrified wizards and witches who waited 
breathlessly for news at the edge of the wood expected 
reassurance from the Ministry of Magic, they were 
sadly disappointed. A Ministry official emerged some 
time after the appearance of the Dark Mark alleging 
that nobody had been hurt, but refusing to give any 
more information. Whether this statement will be 
enough to quash the rumors that several bodies were 
removed from the woods an hour later, remains to be 
seen.’ Oh really,” said Mr. Weasley in exasperation, 
handing the paper to Percy. “Nobody was hurt. What 
was I supposed to say? Rumors that several bodies 
were removed from the woods ... well, there certainly 
will be rumors now she’s printed that.” 

He heaved a deep sigh. “Molly, I’m going to have to go 
into the office; this is going to take some smoothing 
over.” 

“I’ll come with you, Father,” said Percy importantly. 
“Mr. Crouch will need all hands on deck. And I can 
give him my cauldron report in person.” 

He bustled out of the kitchen. Mrs. Weasley looked 
most upset. 

“Arthur, you’re supposed to be on holiday! This hasn’t 
got anything to do with your office; surely they can 
handle this without you?” 

“I’ve got to go, Molly,” said Mr. Weasley. “I’ve made 
things worse. I’ll just change into my robes and I’ll be 
off. ...” 

“Mrs. Weasley,” said Harry suddenly, unable to 
contain himself, “Hedwig hasn’t arrived with a letter 
for me, has she?” 



Page | 163 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Hedwig, dear?” said Mrs. Weasley distractedly. “No ... 
no, there hasn’t been any post at all.” 

Ron and Hermione looked curiously at Harry. With a 
meaningful look at both of them he said, “All right if I 
go and dump my stuff in your room, Ron?” 

“Yeah ... think I will too,” said Ron at once. 
“Hermione?” 

“Yes,” she said quickly, and the three of them 
marched out of the kitchen and up the stairs. 

“What’s up, Harry?” said Ron, the moment they had 
closed the door of the attic room behind them. 

“There’s something I haven’t told you,” Harry said. 

“On Saturday morning, I woke up with my scar 
hurting again.” 

Ron’s and Hermione’s reactions were almost exactly 
as Harry had imagined them back in his bedroom on 
Privet Drive. Hermione gasped and started making 
suggestions at once, mentioning a number of 
reference books, and everybody from Albus 
Dumbledore to Madam Pomfrey, the Hogwarts nurse. 
Ron simply looked dumbstruck. 

“But — he wasn’t there, was he? You-Know-Who? I 
mean — last time your scar kept hurting, he was at 
Hogwarts, wasn’t he?” 

“I’m sure he wasn’t on Privet Drive,” said Harry. “But I 
was dreaming about him . . . him and Peter — you 
know, Wormtail. I can’t remember all of it now, but 
they were plotting to kill ... someone.” 



Page | 164 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He had teetered for a moment on the verge of saying 
“me,” but couldn’t bring himself to make Hermione 
look any more horrified than she already did. 

“It was only a dream,” said Ron bracingly. “Just a 
nightmare.” 

“Yeah, but was it, though?” said Harry, turning to 
look out of the window at the brightening sky. “It’s 
weird, isn’t it? ... My scar hurts, and three days later 
the Death Eaters are on the march, and Voldemort’s 
sign’s up in the sky again.” 

“Don’t — say — his — name!” Ron hissed through 
gritted teeth. 

“And remember what Professor Trelawney said?” 

Harry went on, ignoring Ron. “At the end of last 
year?” 

Professor Trelawney was their Divination teacher at 
Hogwarts. Hermione ’s terrified look vanished as she 
let out a derisive snort. 

“Oh Harry, you aren’t going to pay attention to 
anything that old fraud says?” 

“You weren’t there,” said Harry. “You didn’t hear her. 
This time was different. I told you, she went into a 
trance — a real one. And she said the Dark Lord 
would rise again . . . greater and more terrible than ever 
before ... and he’d manage it because his servant was 
going to go back to him ... and that night Wormtail 
escaped.” 

There was a silence in which Ron fidgeted 
absentmindedly with a hole in his Chudley Cannons 
bedspread. 



Page | 165 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Why were you asking if Hedwig had come, Harry?” 
Hermione asked. “Are you expecting a letter?” 

“I told Sirius about my scar,” said Harry, shrugging. 
“I’m waiting for his answer.” 

“Good thinking!” said Ron, his expression clearing. “I 
bet Sirius ’ll know what to do!” 

“I hoped he’d get back to me quickly,” said Harry. 

“But we don’t know where Sirius is ... he could be in 
Africa or somewhere, couldn’t he?” said Hermione 
reasonably. “Hedwig’s not going to manage that 
journey in a few days.” 

“Yeah, I know,” said Harry, but there was a leaden 
feeling in his stomach as he looked out of the window 
at the Hedwig-free sky. 

“Come and have a game of Quidditch in the orchard, 
Harry,” said Ron. “Come on — three on three, Bill and 
Charlie and Fred and George will play. ... You can try 
out the Wronski Feint. ...” 

“Ron,” said Hermione, in an I-don’t-think-you’re- 
being- very- sensitive sort of voice, “Harry doesn’t want 
to play Quidditch right now. ... He’s worried, and he’s 
tired. ... We all need to go to bed. ...” 

“Yeah, I want to play Quidditch,” said Harry 
suddenly. “Hang on, I’ll get my Firebolt.” 

Hermione left the room, muttering something that 
sounded very much like “Boys.” 

k k k 



Page | 166 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Neither Mr. Weasley nor Percy was at home much 
over the following week. Both left the house each 
morning before the rest of the family got up, and 
returned well after dinner every night. 

“It’s been an absolute uproar,” Percy told them 
importantly the Sunday evening before they were due 
to return to Hogwarts. “I’ve been putting out fires all 
week. People keep sending Howlers, and of course, if 
you don’t open a Howler straight away, it explodes. 
Scorch marks all over my desk and my best quill 
reduced to cinders.” 

“Why are they all sending Howlers?” asked Ginny, 
who was mending her copy of One Thousand Magical 
Herbs and Fungi with Spellotape on the rug in front of 
the living room fire. 

“Complaining about security at the World Cup,” said 
Percy. “They want compensation for their ruined 
property. Mundungus Fletcher’s put in a claim for a 
twelve-bedroomed tent with en-suite Jacuzzi, but I’ve 
got his number. I know for a fact he was sleeping 
under a cloak propped on sticks.” 

Mrs. Weasley glanced at the grandfather clock in the 
corner. Harry liked this clock. It was completely 
useless if you wanted to know the time, but otherwise 
very informative. It had nine golden hands, and each 
of them was engraved with one of the Weasley family’s 
names. There were no numerals around the face, but 
descriptions of where each family member might be. 
“Home,” “school,” and “work” were there, but there 
was also “traveling,” “lost,” “hospital,” “prison,” and, 
in the position where the number twelve would be on 
a normal clock, “mortal peril.” 

Eight of the hands were currently pointing to the 
“home” position, but Mr. Weasley’s, which was the 

Page | 167 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




longest, was still pointing to “work.” Mrs. Weasley 
sighed. 



“Your father hasn’t had to go into the office on 
weekends since the days of You-Know-Who,” she said. 
“They’re working him far too hard. His dinner’s going 
to be mined if he doesn’t come home soon.” 

“Well, Father feels he’s got to make up for his mistake 
at the match, doesn’t he?” said Percy. “If truth be 
told, he was a tad unwise to make a public statement 
without clearing it with his Head of Department first 



“Don’t you dare blame your father for what that 
wretched Skeeter woman wrote!” said Mrs. Weasley, 
flaring up at once. 

“If Dad hadn’t said anything, old Rita would just have 
said it was disgraceful that nobody from the Ministry 
had commented,” said Bill, who was playing chess 
with Ron. “Rita Skeeter never makes anyone look 
good. Remember, she interviewed all the Gringotts’ 
Charm Breakers once, and called me ‘a long-haired 
pillock’?” 

“Well, it is a bit long, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley gently. 
“If you’d just let me — ” 

“No, Mum.” 

Rain lashed against the living room window. 

Hermione was immersed in The Standard Book of 
Spells, Grade 4, copies of which Mrs. Weasley had 
bought for her, Harry, and Ron in Diagon Alley. 
Charlie was darning a fireproof balaclava. Harry was 
polishing his Firebolt, the broomstick servicing kit 
Hermione had given him for his thirteenth birthday 
open at his feet. Fred and George were sitting in a far 
Page | 168 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




corner, quills out, talking in whispers, their heads 
bent over a piece of parchment. 

“What are you two up to?” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, 
her eyes on the twins. 

“Homework,” said Fred vaguely. 

“Don’t be ridiculous, you’re still on holiday,” said Mrs. 
Weasley. 

“Yeah, we’ve left it a bit late,” said George. 

“You’re not by any chance writing out a new order 
form, are you?” said Mrs. Weasley shrewdly. “You 
wouldn’t be thinking of restarting Weasleys’ Wizard 
Wheezes, by any chance?” 

“Now, Mum,” said Fred, looking up at her, a pained 
look on his face. “If the Hogwarts Express crashed 
tomorrow, and George and I died, how would you feel 
to know that the last thing we ever heard from you 
was an unfounded accusation?” 

Everyone laughed, even Mrs. Weasley. 

“Oh your father’s coming!” she said suddenly, looking 
up at the clock again. 

Mr. Weasley’s hand had suddenly spun from “work” 
to “traveling”; a second later it had shuddered to a 
halt on “home” with the others, and they heard him 
calling from the kitchen. 

“Coming, Arthur!” called Mrs. Weasley, hurrying out 
of the room. 



Page | 169 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




A few moments later, Mr. Weasley came into the 
warm living room carrying his dinner on a tray. He 
looked completely exhausted. 

“Well, the fat’s really in the fire now,” he told Mrs. 
Weasley as he sat down in an armchair near the 
hearth and toyed unenthusiastically with his 
somewhat shriveled cauliflower. “Rita Skeeter’s been 
ferreting around all week, looking for more Ministry 
mess-ups to report. And now she’s found out about 
poor old Bertha going missing, so that’ll be the 
headline in the Prophet tomorrow. I told Bagman he 
should have sent someone to look for her ages ago.” 

“Mr. Crouch has been saying it for weeks and weeks,” 
said Percy swiftly. 

“Crouch is very lucky Rita hasn’t found out about 
Winky,” said Mr. Weasley irritably. “There’d be a 
week’s worth of headlines in his house-elf being 
caught holding the wand that conjured the Dark 
Mark.” 

“I thought we were all agreed that that elf, while 
irresponsible, did not conjure the Mark?” said Percy 
hotly. 

“If you ask me, Mr. Crouch is very lucky no one at the 
Daily Prophet knows how mean he is to elves!” said 
Hermione angrily. 

“Now look here, Hermione!” said Percy. “A high- 
ranking Ministry official like Mr. Crouch deserves 
unswerving obedience from his servants — ” 

“His slave, you mean!” said Hermione, her voice rising 
passionately, “because he didn’t pay Winky, did he?” 



Page | 170 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I think you’d all better go upstairs and check that 
you’ve packed properly!” said Mrs. Weasley, breaking 
up the argument. “Come on now, all of you. ...” 

Harry repacked his broomstick servicing kit, put his 
Firebolt over his shoulder, and went back upstairs 
with Ron. The rain sounded even louder at the top of 
the house, accompanied by loud whistlings and 
moans from the wind, not to mention sporadic howls 
from the ghoul who lived in the attic. Pigwidgeon 
began twittering and zooming around his cage when 
they entered. The sight of the half-packed trunks 
seemed to have sent him into a frenzy of excitement. 

“Bung him some Owl Treats,” said Ron, throwing a 
packet across to Harry. “It might shut him up.” 

Harry poked a few Owl Treats through the bars of 
Pigwidgeon’s cage, then turned to his trunk. Hedwig’s 
cage stood next to it, still empty. 

“It’s been over a week,” Harry said, looking at 
Hedwig’s deserted perch. “Ron, you don’t reckon 
Sirius has been caught, do you?” 

“Nah, it would’ve been in the Daily Prophet,” said Ron. 
“The Ministry would want to show they’d caught 
someone, wouldn’t they?” 

“Yeah, I suppose. ...” 

“Look, here’s the stuff Mum got for you in Diagon 
Alley. And she’s got some gold out of your vault for 
you ... and she’s washed all your socks.” 

He heaved a pile of parcels onto Harry’s camp bed 
and dropped the money bag and a load of socks next 
to it. Harry started unwrapping the shopping. Apart 
from The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 4, by 

Page | 171 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Miranda Goshawk, he had a handful of new quills, a 
dozen rolls of parchment, and refills for his potion- 
making kit — he had been running low on spine of 
lionfish and essence of belladonna. He was just piling 
underwear into his cauldron when Ron made a loud 
noise of disgust behind him. 

“What is that supposed to be?” 

He was holding up something that looked to Harry 
like a long, maroon velvet dress. It had a moldy- 
looking lace frill at the collar and matching lace cuffs. 

There was a knock on the door, and Mrs. Weasley 
entered, carrying an armful of freshly laundered 
Hogwarts robes. 

“Here you are,” she said, sorting them into two piles. 
“Now, mind you pack them properly so they don’t 
crease.” 

“Mum, you’ve given me Ginny’s new dress,” said Ron, 
handing it out to her. 

“Of course I haven’t,” said Mrs. Weasley. “That’s for 
you. Dress robes.” 

“What?” said Ron, looking horror-struck. 

“Dress robes!” repeated Mrs. Weasley. “It says on your 
school list that you’re supposed to have dress robes 
this year ... robes for formal occasions.” 

“You’ve got to be kidding,” said Ron in disbelief. “I’m 
not wearing that, no way.” 

“Everyone wears them, Ron!” said Mrs. Weasley 
crossly. “They’re all like that! Your father’s got some 
for smart parties!” 

Page | 172 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll go starkers before I put that on,” said Ron 
stubbornly. 

“Don’t be so silly,” said Mrs. Weasley. “You’ve got to 
have dress robes, they’re on your list! I got some for 
Harry too ... show him, Harry. ...” 

In some trepidation, Harry opened the last parcel on 
his camp bed. It wasn’t as bad as he had expected, 
however; his dress robes didn’t have any lace on them 
at all — in fact, they were more or less the same as 
his school ones, except that they were bottle green 
instead of black. 

“I thought they’d bring out the color of your eyes, 
dear,” said Mrs. Weasley fondly. 

“Well, they’re okay!” said Ron angrily, looking at 
Harry’s robes. “Why couldn’t I have some like that?” 

“Because ... well, I had to get yours secondhand, and 
there wasn’t a lot of choice!” said Mrs. Weasley, 
flushing. 

Harry looked away. He would willingly have split all 
the money in his Gringotts vault with the Weasleys, 
but he knew they would never take it. 

“I’m never wearing them,” Ron was saying stubbornly. 
“Never.” 

“Fine,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “Go naked. And, Harry, 
make sure you get a picture of him. Goodness knows 
I could do with a laugh.” 

She left the room, slamming the door behind her. 
There was a funny spluttering noise from behind 
them. Pigwidgeon was choking on an overlarge Owl 
Treat. 

Page | 173 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Why is everything I own rubbish?” said Ron 
furiously, striding across the room to unstick 
Pigwidgeon’s beak. 



Page | 174 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






ABOARD THE HOGWARTS EXPRESS 

There was a definite end-of-the-holidays gloom in the 
air when Harry awoke next morning. Heavy rain was 
still splattering against the window as he got dressed 
in jeans and a sweatshirt; they would change into 
their school robes on the Hogwarts Express. 

He, Ron, Fred, and George had just reached the first- 
floor landing on their way down to breakfast, when 
Mrs. Weasley appeared at the foot of the stairs, 
looking harassed. 

“Arthur!” she called up the staircase. “Arthur! Urgent 
message from the Ministry!” 

Harry flattened himself against the wall as Mr. 
Weasley came clattering past with his robes on back- 
to-front and hurtled out of sight. When Harry and the 
others entered the kitchen, they saw Mrs. Weasley 
rummaging anxiously in the drawers — “I’ve got a 
quill here somewhere!” — and Mr. Weasley bending 
over the fire, talking to — 



Page | 175 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry shut his eyes hard and opened them again to 
