watched Fleur mopping up Bill’s wounds with a most 
curious expression upon her face. Nobody said 
anything; Harry did not dare move. Like everybody 
else, he was waiting for the explosion. 

“Our Great-Auntie Muriel,” said Mrs. Weasley after a 
long pause, “has a very beautiful tiara — goblin-made 
— which I am sure I could persuade her to lend you 



Page | 699 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




for the wedding. She is very fond of Bill, you know, 
and it would look lovely with your hair.” 



“Thank you,” said Fleur stiffly. “I am sure zat will be 
lovely.” 

And then, Harry did not quite see how it happened, 
both women were crying and hugging each other. 
Completely bewildered, wondering whether the world 
had gone mad, he turned around: Ron looked as 
stunned as he felt and Ginny and Hermione were 
exchanging startled looks. 

“You see!” said a strained voice. Tonks was glaring at 
Lupin. “She still wants to marry him, even though 
he’s been bitten! She doesn’t care!” 

“It’s different,” said Lupin, barely moving his lips and 
looking suddenly tense. “Bill will not be a full 
werewolf. The cases are completely — ” 

“But I don’t care either, I don’t care!” said Tonks, 
seizing the front of Lupin’s robes and shaking them. 
“I’ve told you a million times. ...” 

And the meaning of Tonks’s Patronus and her mouse- 
colored hair, and the reason she had come running to 
find Dumbledore when she had heard a rumor 
someone had been attacked by Greyback, all 
suddenly became clear to Harry; it had not been 
Sirius that Tonks had fallen in love with after all. 

“And I’ve told you a million times,” said Lupin, 
refusing to meet her eyes, staring at the floor, “that I 
am too old for you, too poor ... too dangerous. ...” 

“I’ve said all along you’re taking a ridiculous line on 
this, Remus,” said Mrs. Weasley over Fleur’s shoulder 
as she patted her on the back. 

Page | 700 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I am not being ridiculous,” said Lupin steadily. 
“Tonks deserves somebody young and whole.” 

“But she wants you,” said Mr. Weasley, with a small 
smile. “And after all, Remus, young and whole men do 
not necessarily remain so.” 

He gestured sadly at his son, lying between them. 

“This is ... not the moment to discuss it,” said Lupin, 
avoiding everybody’s eyes as he looked around 
distractedly. “Dumbledore is dead. ...” 

“Dumbledore would have been happier than anybody 
to think that there was a little more love in the world,” 
said Professor McGonagall curtly, just as the hospital 
doors opened again and Hagrid walked in. 

The little of his face that was not obscured by hair or 
beard was soaking and swollen; he was shaking with 
tears, a vast, spotted handkerchief in his hand. 

“I’ve ... I’ve done it, Professor,” he choked. “M-moved 
him. Professor Sprout’s got the kids back in bed. 
Professor Flitwick’s lyin’ down, but he says he’ll be all 
righ’ in a jiffy, an’ Professor Slughorn says the 
Ministry’s bin informed.” 

“Thank you, Hagrid,” said Professor McGonagall, 
standing up at once and turning to look at the group 
around Bill’s bed. “I shall have to see the Ministry 
when they get here. Hagrid, please tell the Heads of 
Houses — Slughorn can represent Slytherin — that I 
want to see them in my office forthwith. I would like 
you to join us too.” 

As Hagrid nodded, turned, and shuffled out of the 
room again, she looked down at Harry. “Before I meet 



Page | 701 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




them I would like a quick word with you, Harry. If 
you’ll come with me. ...” 

Harry stood up, murmured “See you in a bit” to Ron, 
Hermione, and Ginny, and followed Professor 
McGonagall back down the ward. The corridors 
outside were deserted and the only sound was the 
distant phoenix song. It was several minutes before 
Harry became aware that they were not heading for 
Professor McGonagall’s office, but for Dumbledore’s, 
and another few seconds before he realized that of 
course, she had been deputy headmistress. ... 
Apparently she was now headmistress ... so the room 
behind the gargoyle was now hers. 

In silence they ascended the moving spiral staircase 
and entered the circular office. He did not know what 
he had expected: that the room would be draped in 
black, perhaps, or even that Dumbledore’s body 
might be lying there. In fact, it looked almost exactly 
as it had done when he and Dumbledore had left it 
mere hours previously: the silver instruments 
whirring and puffing on their spindle-legged tables, 
Gryffindor’s sword in its glass case gleaming in the 
moonlight, the Sorting Hat on a shelf behind the 
desk. But Fawkes’s perch stood empty, he was still 
crying his lament to the grounds. And a new portrait 
had joined the ranks of the dead headmasters and 
headmistresses of Hogwarts: Dumbledore was 
slumbering in a golden frame over the desk, his half- 
moon spectacles perched upon his crooked nose, 
looking peaceful and untroubled. 

After glancing once at this portrait, Professor 
McGonagall made an odd movement as though 
steeling herself, then rounded the desk to look at 
Harry, her face taut and lined. 



Page | 702 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry,” she said, “I would like to know what you and 
Professor Dumbledore were doing this evening when 
you left the school.” 

“I can’t tell you that, Professor,” said Harry. He had 
expected the question and had his answer ready. It 
had been here, in this very room, that Dumbledore 
had told him that he was to confide the contents of 
their lessons to nobody but Ron and Hermione. 

“Harry, it might be important,” said Professor 
McGonagall. 

“It is,” said Harry, “very, but he didn’t want me to tell 
anyone.” 

Professor McGonagall glared at him. “Potter” — Harry 
registered the renewed use of his surname — “in the 
light of Professor Dumbledore’s death, I think you 
must see that the situation has changed somewhat — 



“I don’t think so,” said Harry, shrugging. “Professor 
Dumbledore never told me to stop following his orders 
if he died.” 

“But — ” 

“There’s one thing you should know before the 
Ministry gets here, though. Madam Rosmerta’s under 
the Imperius Curse, she was helping Malfoy and the 
Death Eaters, that’s how the necklace and the 
poisoned mead — ” 

“Rosmerta?” said Professor McGonagall incredulously, 
but before she could go on, there was a knock on the 
door behind them and Professors Sprout, Flitwick, 
and Slughorn traipsed into the room, followed by 



Page | 703 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid, who was still weeping copiously, his huge 
frame trembling with grief. 

“Snape!” ejaculated Slughorn, who looked the most 
shaken, pale and sweating. “Snape! I taught him! I 
thought I knew him!” 

But before any of them could respond to this, a sharp 
voice spoke from high on the wall: A sallow-faced 
wizard with a short black fringe had just walked back 
into his empty canvas. 

“Minerva, the Minister will be here within seconds, he 
has just Disapparated from the Ministry.” 

“Thank you, Everard,” said Professor McGonagall, 
and she turned quickly to her teachers. 

“I want to talk about what happens to Hogwarts 
before he gets here,” she said quickly. “Personally, I 
am not convinced that the school should reopen next 
year. The death of the headmaster at the hands of one 
of our colleagues is a terrible stain upon Hogwarts ’s 
history. It is horrible.” 

“I am sure Dumbledore would have wanted the school 
to remain open,” said Professor Sprout. “I feel that if a 
single pupil wants to come, then the school ought to 
remain open for that pupil.” 

“But will we have a single pupil after this?” said 
Slughorn, now dabbing his sweating brow with a 
silken handkerchief. “Parents will want to keep their 
children at home and I can’t say I blame them. 
Personally, I don’t think we’re in more danger at 
Hogwarts than we are anywhere else, but you can’t 
expect mothers to think like that. They’ll want to keep 
their families together, it’s only natural.” 



Page | 704 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I agree,” said Professor McGonagall. “And in any 
case, it is not true to say that Dumbledore never 
envisaged a situation in which Hogwarts might close. 
When the Chamber of Secrets reopened he considered 
the closure of the school — and I must say that 
Professor Dumbledore’s murder is more disturbing to 
me than the idea of Slytherin’s monster living 
undetected in the bowels of the castle. ...” 

“We must consult the governors,” said Professor 
Flitwick in his squeaky little voice; he had a large 
bruise on his forehead but seemed otherwise 
unscathed by his collapse in Snape’s office. “We must 
follow the established procedures. A decision should 
not be made hastily.” 

“Hagrid, you haven’t said anything,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “What are your views, ought Hogwarts to 
remain open?” 

Hagrid, who had been weeping silently into his large, 
spotted handkerchief throughout this conversation, 
now raised puffy red eyes and croaked, “I dunno, 
Professor ... that’s fer the Heads of House an’ the 
headmistress ter decide ...” 

“Professor Dumbledore always valued your views,” 
said Professor McGonagall kindly, “and so do I.” 

“Well, I’m stayin’,” said Hagrid, fat tears still leaking 
out of the corners of his eyes and trickling down into 
his tangled beard. “It’s me home, it’s bin me home 
since I was thirteen. An’ if there’s kids who wan’ me 
ter teach ’em, I’ll do it. But ... I dunno ... Hogwarts 
without Dumbledore ...” He gulped and disappeared 
behind his handkerchief once more, and there was 
silence. 



Page | 705 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Very well,” said Professor McGonagall, glancing out 
of the window at the grounds, checking to see 
whether the Minister was yet approaching, “then I 
must agree with Filius that the right thing to do is to 
consult the governors, who will make the final 
decision. 

“Now, as to getting students home ... there is an 
argument for doing it sooner rather than later. We 
could arrange for the Hogwarts Express to come 
tomorrow if necessary — ” 

“What about Dumbledore’s funeral?” said Harry, 
speaking at last. 

“Well ...” said Professor McGonagall, losing a little of 
her briskness as her voice shook. “I — I know that it 
was Dumbledore’s wish to be laid to rest here, at 
Hogwarts — ” 

“Then that’s what’ll happen, isn’t it?” said Harry 
fiercely. 

“If the Ministry thinks it appropriate,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “No other headmaster or headmistress 
has ever been — ” 

“No other headmaster or headmistress ever gave more 
to this school,” growled Hagrid. 

“Hogwarts should be Dumbledore’s final resting 
place,” said Professor Flitwick. 

“Absolutely,” said Professor Sprout. 

“And in that case,” said Harry, “you shouldn’t send 
the students home until the funeral’s over. They’ll 
want to say — ” 



Page | 706 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




The last word caught in his throat, but Professor 
Sprout completed the sentence for him. 



“Good-bye.” 

“Well said,” squeaked Professor Flitwick. “Well said 
indeed! Our students should pay tribute, it is fitting. 
We can arrange transport home afterward.” 

“Seconded,” barked Professor Sprout. 

“I suppose ... yes ...” said Slughorn in a rather 
agitated voice, while Hagrid let out a strangled sob of 
assent. 

“He’s coming,” said Professor McGonagall suddenly, 
gazing down into the grounds. “The Minister ... and 
by the looks of it, he’s brought a delegation ...” 

“Can I leave, Professor?” said Harry at once. 

He had no desire at all to see, or be interrogated by, 
Rufus Scrimgeour tonight. 

“You may,” said Professor McGonagall. “And quickly.” 

She strode toward the door and held it open for him. 
He sped down the spiral staircase and off along the 
deserted corridor; he had left his Invisibility Cloak at 
the top of the Astronomy Tower, but it did not matter; 
there was nobody in the corridors to see him pass, 
not even Filch, Mrs. Norris, or Peeves. He did not 
meet another soul until he turned into the passage 
leading to the Gryffindor common room. 

“Is it true?” whispered the Fat Lady as he approached 
her. “It is really true? Dumbledore — dead?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. 

Page | 707 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




She let out a wail and, without waiting for the 
password, swung forward to admit him. 



As Harry had suspected it would be, the common 
room was jam-packed. The room fell silent as he 
climbed through the portrait hole. He saw Dean and 
Seamus sitting in a group nearby: This meant that 
the dormitory must be empty, or nearly so. Without 
speaking to anybody, without making eye contact at 
all, Harry walked straight across the room and 
through the door to the boys’ dormitories. 

As he had hoped, Ron was waiting for him, still fully 
dressed, sitting on his bed. Harry sat down on his 
own four-poster and for a moment, they simply stared 
at each other. 

“They’re talking about closing the school,” said Harry. 
“Lupin said they would,” said Ron. 

There was a pause. 

“So?” said Ron in a very low voice, as though he 
thought the furniture might be listening in. “Did you 
find one? Did you get it? A — a Horcrux?” 

Harry shook his head. All that had taken place 
around that black lake seemed like an old nightmare 
now; had it really happened, and only hours ago? 

“You didn’t get it?” said Ron, looking crestfallen. “It 
wasn’t there?” 

“No,” said Harry. “Someone had already taken it and 
left a fake in its place.” 

“Already taken — ?” 

Page | 708 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Wordlessly, Harry pulled the fake locket from his 
pocket, opened it, and passed it to Ron. The full story 
could wait. ... It did not matter tonight ... nothing 
mattered except the end, the end of their pointless 
adventure, the end of Dumbledore’s life. ... 

“R.A.B.,” whispered Ron, “but who was that?” 

“Dunno,” said Harry, lying back on his bed fully 
clothed and staring blankly upwards. He felt no 
curiosity at all about R.A.B.: He doubted that he 
would ever feel curious again. As he lay there, he 
became aware suddenly that the grounds were silent. 
Fawkes had stopped singing. 

And he knew, without knowing how he knew it, that 
the phoenix had gone, had left Hogwarts for good, just 
as Dumbledore had left the school, had left the world 
. . . had left Harry. 



Page | 709 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






THE WHITE TOMB 

All lessons were suspended, all examinations 
postponed. Some students were hurried away from 
Hogwarts by their parents over the next couple of 
days — the Patil twins were gone before breakfast on 
the morning following Dumbledore’s death, and 
Zacharias Smith was escorted from the castle by his 
haughty-looking father. Seamus Finnigan, on the 
other hand, refused point-blank to accompany his 
mother home; they had a shouting match in the 
entrance hall that was resolved when she agreed that 
he could remain behind for the funeral. She had 
difficulty in finding a bed in Hogsmeade, Seamus told 
Harry and Ron, for wizards and witches were pouring 
into the village, preparing to pay their last respects to 
Dumbledore. 

Some excitement was caused among the younger 
students, who had never seen it before, when a 
powder-blue carriage the size of a house, pulled by a 
dozen giant winged palominos, came soaring out of 
the sky in the late afternoon before the funeral and 



Page | 710 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



landed on the edge of the forest. Harry watched from 
a window as a gigantic and handsome olive-skinned, 
black-haired woman descended the carriage steps 
and threw herself into the waiting Hagrid’s arms. 
Meanwhile a delegation of Ministry officials, including 
the Minister of Magic himself, was being 
accommodated within the castle. Harry was diligently 
avoiding contact with any of them; he was sure that, 
sooner or later, he would be asked again to account 
for Dumbledore’s last excursion from Hogwarts. 

Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny were spending all 
of their time together. The beautiful weather seemed 
to mock them; Harry could imagine how it would have 
been if Dumbledore had not died, and they had had 
this time together at the very end of the year, Ginny’s 
examinations finished, the pressure of homework 
lifted . . . and hour by hour, he put off saying the thing 
that he knew he must say, doing what he knew was 
right to do, because it was too hard to forgo his best 
source of comfort. 

They visited the hospital wing twice a day: Neville had 
been discharged, but Bill remained under Madam 
Pomfrey’s care. His scars were as bad as ever — in 
truth, he now bore a distinct resemblance to Mad-Eye 
Moody, though thankfully with both eyes and legs — 
but in personality he seemed just the same as ever. 

All that appeared to have changed was that he now 
had a great liking for very rare steaks. 

"... so eet ees lucky ’e is marrying me,” said Fleur 
happily, plumping up Bill’s pillows, “because ze 
British overcook their meat, I ’ave always said this.” 

“I suppose I’m just going to have to accept that he 
really is going to marry her,” sighed Ginny later that 
evening, as she, Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat beside 



Page | 711 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




the open window of the Gryffindor common room, 
looking out over the twilit grounds. 

“She’s not that bad,” said Harry. “Ugly, though,” he 
added hastily, as Ginny raised her eyebrows, and she 
let out a reluctant giggle. 

“Well, I suppose if Mum can stand it, I can.” 

“Anyone else we know died?” Ron asked Hermione, 
who was perusing the Evening Prophet. 

Hermione winced at the forced toughness in his voice. 
“No,” she said reprovingly, folding up the newspaper. 
“They’re still looking for Snape but no sign ...” 

“Of course there isn’t,” said Harry, who became angry 
every time this subject cropped up. “They won’t find 
Snape till they find Voldemort, and seeing as they’ve 
never managed to do that in all this time ...” 

“I’m going to go to bed,” yawned Ginny. “I haven’t 
been sleeping that well since . . . well ... I could do with 
some sleep.” 

She kissed Harry (Ron looked away pointedly), waved 
at the other two, and departed for the girls’ 
dormitories. The moment the door had closed behind 
her, Hermione leaned forward toward Harry with a 
most Hermione-ish look on her face. 

“Harry, I found something out this morning, in the 
library.” 

“R.A.B.?” said Harry, sitting up straight. 

He did not feel the way he had so often felt before, 
excited, curious, burning to get to the bottom of a 
mystery; he simply knew that the task of discovering 

Page | 712 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




the truth about the real Horcrux had to be completed 
before he could move a little farther along the dark 
and winding path stretching ahead of him, the path 
that he and Dumbledore had set out upon together, 
and which he now knew he would have to journey 
alone. There might still be as many as four Horcruxes 
out there somewhere, and each would need to be 
found and eliminated before there was even a 
possibility that Voldemort could be killed. He kept 
reciting their names to himself, as though by listing 
them he could bring them within reach: the locket ... 
the cup . . . the snake . . . something of Gryffindor’s or 
Ravenclaw’s . . . the locket . . . the cup . . . the snake . . . 
something of Gryffindor’s or Ravenclaw’s ... 

This mantra seemed to pulse through Harry’s mind as 
he fell asleep at night, and his dreams were thick with 
cups, lockets, and mysterious objects that he could 
not quite reach, though Dumbledore helpfully offered 
Harry a rope ladder that turned to snakes the 
moment he began to climb. ... 

He had shown Hermione the note inside the locket 
the morning after Dumbledore ’s death, and although 
she had not immediately recognized the initials as 
belonging to some obscure wizard about whom she 
had been reading, she had since been rushing off to 
the library a little more often than was strictly 
necessary for somebody who had no homework to do. 

“No,” she said sadly, “I’ve been trying, Harry, but I 
haven’t found anything. ... There are a couple of 
reasonably well-known wizards with those initials — 
Rosalind Antigone Bungs . . . Rupert ‘Axebanger’ 
Brookstanton ... but they don’t seem to fit at all. 
Judging by that note, the person who stole the 
Horcrux knew Voldemort, and I can’t find a shred of 
evidence that Bungs or Axebanger ever had anything 



Page | 713 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




to do with him. ... No, actually, it’s about ... well, 
Snape.” 

She looked nervous even saying the name again. 

“What about him?” asked Harry heavily, slumping 
back in his chair. 

“Well, it’s just that I was sort of right about the Half- 
Blood Prince business,” she said tentatively. 

“D’you have to rub it in, Hermione? How d’you think I 
feel about that now?” 

“No — no — Harry, I didn’t mean that!” she said 
hastily, looking around to check that they were not 
being overheard. “It’s just that I was right about 
Eileen Prince once owning the book. You see ... she 
was Snape ’s mother!” 

“I thought she wasn’t much of a looker,” said Ron. 
Hermione ignored him. 

“I was going through the rest of the old Prophets and 
there was a tiny announcement about Eileen Prince 
marrying a man called Tobias Snape, and then later 
an announcement saying that she’d given birth to a 



“ — murderer,” spat Harry. 

“Well ... yes,” said Hermione. “So ... I was sort of 
right. Snape must have been proud of being ‘half a 
Prince,’ you see? Tobias Snape was a Muggle from 
what it said in the Prophet” 

“Yeah, that fits,” said Harry. “He’d play up the pure- 
blood side so he could get in with Lucius Malfoy and 
the rest of them. ... He’s just like Voldemort. Pure- 

Page | 714 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




blood mother, Muggle father . . . ashamed of his 
parentage, trying to make himself feared using the 
Dark Arts, gave himself an impressive new name — 
Lord Voldemort — the Half-Blood Prince — how could 
Dumbledore have missed — ?” 

He broke off, looking out the window. He could not 
stop himself dwelling upon Dumbledore ’s inexcusable 
trust in Snape ... but as Hermione had just 
inadvertently reminded him, he, Harry, had been 
taken in just the same. ... In spite of the increasing 
nastiness of those scribbled spells, he had refused to 
believe ill of the boy who had been so clever, who had 
helped him so much. ... 

Helped him ... it was an almost unendurable thought 
now. 

“I still don’t get why he didn’t turn you in for using 
that book,” said Ron. “He must’ve known where you 
were getting it all from.” 

“He knew,” said Harry bitterly. “He knew when I used 
Sectumsempra. He didn’t really need Legilimency. ... 
He might even have known before then, with 
Slughorn talking about how brilliant I was at Potions. 
... Shouldn’t have left his old book in the bottom of 
that cupboard, should he?” 

“But why didn’t he turn you in?” 

“I don’t think he wanted to associate himself with that 
book,” said Hermione. “I don’t think Dumbledore 
would have liked it very much if he’d known. And 
even if Snape pretended it hadn’t been his, Slughorn 
would have recognized his writing at once. Anyway, 
the book was left in Snape’s old classroom, and I’ll bet 
Dumbledore knew his mother was called ‘Prince.’ ” 



Page | 715 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I should’ve shown the book to Dumbledore,” said 
Harry. “All that time he was showing me how 
Voldemort was evil even when he was at school, and I 
had proof Snape was too — ” 

“ ‘Evil’ is a strong word,” said Hermione quietly. 

“You were the one who kept telling me the book was 
dangerous!” 

“I’m trying to say, Harry, that you’re putting too much 
blame on yourself. I thought the Prince seemed to 
have a nasty sense of humor, but I would never have 
guessed he was a potential killer. ...” 

“None of us could’ve guessed Snape would ... you 
know,” said Ron. 

Silence fell between them, each of them lost in their 
own thoughts, but Harry was sure that they, like him, 
were thinking about the following morning, when 
Dumbledore’s body would be laid to rest. He had 
never attended a funeral before; there had been no 
body to bury when Sirius had died. He did not know 
what to expect and was a little worried about what he 
might see, about how he would feel. He wondered 
whether Dumbledore’s death would be more real to 
him once it was over. Though he had moments when 
the horrible fact of it threatened to overwhelm him, 
there were blank stretches of numbness where, 
despite the fact that nobody was talking about 
anything else in the whole castle, he still found it 
difficult to believe that Dumbledore had really gone. 
Admittedly he had not, as he had with Sirius, looked 
desperately for some kind of loophole, some way that 
Dumbledore would come back. . . . He felt in his pocket 
for the cold chain of the fake Horcrux, which he now 
carried with him everywhere, not as a talisman, but 



Page | 716 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




as a reminder of what it had cost and what remained 
still to do. 

Harry rose early to pack the next day; the Hogwarts 
Express would be leaving an hour after the funeral. 
Downstairs, he found the mood in the Great Hall 
subdued. Everybody was wearing their dress robes 
and no one seemed very hungry. Professor 
McGonagall had left the thronelike chair in the middle 
of the staff table empty. Hagrid’s chair was deserted 
too; Harry thought that perhaps he had not been able 
to face breakfast, but Snape’s place had been 
unceremoniously filled by Rufus Scrimgeour. Harry 
avoided his yellowish eyes as they scanned the Hall; 
Harry had the uncomfortable feeling that Scrimgeour 
was looking for him. Among Scrimgeour’s entourage 
Harry spotted the red hair and horn-rimmed glasses 
of Percy Weasley. Ron gave no sign that he was aware 
of Percy, apart from stabbing pieces of kipper with 
unwonted venom. 

Over at the Slytherin table Crabbe and Goyle were 
muttering together. Hulking boys though they were, 
they looked oddly lonely without the tall, pale figure of 
Malfoy between them, bossing them around. Harry 
had not spared Malfoy much thought. His animosity 
was all for Snape, but he had not forgotten the fear in 
Malfoy’s voice on that tower top, nor the fact that he 
had lowered his wand before the other Death Eaters 
arrived. Harry did not believe that Malfoy would have 
killed Dumbledore. He despised Malfoy still for his 
infatuation with the Dark Arts, but now the tiniest 
drop of pity mingled with his dislike. Where, Harry 
wondered, was Malfoy now, and what was Voldemort 
making him do under threat of killing him and his 
parents? 

Harry’s thoughts were interrupted by a nudge in the 
ribs from Ginny. Professor McGonagall had risen to 

Page | 717 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




her feet, and the mournful hum in the Hall died away 
at once. 

“It is nearly time,” she said. “Please follow your Heads 
of Houses out into the grounds. Gryffindors, after 
me.” 

They filed out from behind their benches in near 
silence. Harry glimpsed Slughorn at the head of the 
Slytherin column, wearing magnificent, long, emerald 
green robes embroidered with silver. He had never 
seen Professor Sprout, Head of the Hufflepuffs, 
looking so clean; there was not a single patch on her 
hat, and when they reached the entrance hall, they 
found Madam Pince standing beside Filch, she in a 
thick black veil that fell to her knees, he in an ancient 
black suit and tie reeking of mothballs. 

They were heading, as Harry saw when he stepped 
out onto the stone steps from the front doors, toward 
the lake. The warmth of the sun caressed his face as 
they followed Professor McGonagall in silence to the 
place where hundreds of chairs had been set out in 
rows. An aisle ran down the center of them: There 
was a marble table standing at the front, all chairs 
facing it. It was the most beautiful summer’s day. 

An extraordinary assortment of people had already 
settled into half of the chairs; shabby and smart, old 
and young. Most Harry did not recognize, but a few 
he did, including members of the Order of the 
Phoenix: Kingsley Shacklebolt; Mad-Eye Moody; 
Tonks, her hair miraculously returned to vividest 
pink; Remus Lupin, with whom she seemed to be 
holding hands; Mr. and Mrs. Weasley; Bill supported 
by Fleur and followed by Fred and George, who were 
wearing jackets of black dragon skin. Then there was 
Madame Maxime, who took up two and a half chairs 
on her own; Tom, the landlord of the Leaky Cauldron 
Page | 718 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




in London; Arabella Figg, Harry’s Squib neighbor; the 
hairy bass player from the Wizarding group the Weird 
Sisters; Ernie Prang, driver of the Knight Bus; Madam 
Malkin, of the robe shop in Diagon Alley; and some 
people whom Harry merely knew by sight, such as the 
barman of the Hog’s Head and the witch who pushed 
the trolley on the Hogwarts Express. The castle ghosts 
were there too, barely visible in the bright sunlight, 
discernible only when they moved, shimmering 
insubstantially on the gleaming air. 

Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny filed into seats at 
the end of a row beside the lake. People were 
whispering to each other; it sounded like a breeze in 
the grass, but the birdsong was louder by far. The 
crowd continued to swell; with a great rush of 
affection for both of them, Harry saw Neville being 
helped into a seat by Luna. Neville and Luna alone of 
the D.A. had responded to Hermione ’s summons the 
night that Dumbledore had died, and Harry knew 
why: They were the ones who had missed the D.A. 
most . . . probably the ones who had checked their 
coins regularly in the hope that there would be 
another meeting. 

Cornelius Fudge walked past toward the front rows, 
his expression miserable, twirling his green bowler 
hat as usual; Harry next recognized Rita Skeeter, 
who, he was infuriated to see, had a notebook 
clutched in her red-taloned hand, and then, with a 
worse jolt of fury, Dolores Umbridge, an unconvincing 
expression of grief upon her toadlike face, a black 
velvet bow set atop her iron-colored curls. At the sight 
of the centaur Firenze, who was standing like a 
sentinel near the water’s edge, she gave a start and 
scurried hastily into a seat a good distance away. 

The staff was seated at last. Harry could see 
Scrimgeour looking grave and dignified in the front 

Page | 719 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




row with Professor McGonagall. He wondered whether 
Scrimgeour or any of these important people were 
really sorry that Dumbledore was dead. But then he 
heard music, strange, otherworldly music, and he 
forgot his dislike of the Ministry in looking around for 
the source of it. He was not the only one: Many heads 
were turning, searching, a little alarmed. 

“In there,” whispered Ginny in Harry’s ear. 

And he saw them in the clear green sunlit water, 
inches below the surface, reminding him horribly of 
the Inferi: a chorus of merpeople singing in a strange 
language he did not understand, their pallid faces 
rippling, their purplish hair flowing all around them. 
The music made the hair on Harry’s neck stand up, 
and yet it was not unpleasant. It spoke very clearly of 
loss and of despair. As he looked down into the wild 
faces of the singers, he had the feeling that they, at 
least, were sorry for Dumbledore’s passing. Then 
Ginny nudged him again and he looked around. 

Hagrid was walking slowly up the aisle between the 
chairs. He was crying quite silently, his face gleaming 
with tears, and in his arms, wrapped in purple velvet 
spangled with golden stars, was what Harry knew to 
be Dumbledore’s body. A sharp pain rose in Harry’s 
throat at this sight: For a moment, the strange music 
and the knowledge that Dumbledore’s body was so 
close seemed to take all warmth from the day. Ron 
looked white and shocked. Tears were falling thick 
and fast into both Ginny ’s and Hermione’s laps. 

They could not see clearly what was happening at the 
front. Hagrid seemed to have placed the body 
carefully upon the table. Now he retreated down the 
aisle, blowing his nose with loud trumpeting noises 
that drew scandalized looks from some, including, 
Harry saw, Dolores Umbridge ... but Harry knew that 
Page | 720 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore would not have cared. He tried to make a 
friendly gesture to Hagrid as he passed, but Hagrid’s 
eyes were so swollen it was a wonder he could see 
where he was going. Harry glanced at the back row to 
which Hagrid was heading and realized what was 
guiding him, for there, dressed in a jacket and 
trousers each the size of a small marquee, was the 
giant Grawp, his great ugly boulderlike head bowed, 
docile, almost human. Hagrid sat down next to his 
half-brother, and Grawp patted Hagrid hard on the 
head, so that his chair legs sank into the ground. 
Harry had a wonderful momentary urge to laugh. But 
then the music stopped, and he turned to face the 
front again. 

A little tufty-haired man in plain black robes had got 
to his feet and stood now in front of Dumbledore ’s 
body. Harry could not hear what he was saying. Odd 
words floated back to them over the hundreds of 
heads. “Nobility of spirit” ... “intellectual contribution” 
... “greatness of heart” ... It did not mean very much. 

It had little to do with Dumbledore as Harry had 
known him. He suddenly remembered Dumbledore ’s 
idea of a few words, “nitwit,” “oddment,” “blubber,” 
and “tweak,” and again had to suppress a grin. ... 
What was the matter with him? 

There was a soft splashing noise to his left and he 
saw that the merpeople had broken the surface to 
listen too. He remembered Dumbledore crouching at 
the water’s edge two years ago, very close to where 
Harry now sat, and conversing in Mermish with the 
Merchieftainess. Harry wondered where Dumbledore 
had learned Mermish. There was so much he had 
never asked him, so much he should have said. ... 

And then, without warning, it swept over him, the 
dreadful truth, more completely and undeniably than 
it had until now. Dumbledore was dead, gone. ... He 

Page | 721 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




clutched the cold locket in his hand so tightly that it 
hurt, but he could not prevent hot tears spilling from 
his eyes: He looked away from Ginny and the others 
and stared out over the lake, toward the forest, as the 
little man in black droned on. ... There was movement 
among the trees. The centaurs had come to pay their 
respects too. They did not move into the open but 
Harry saw them standing quite still, half hidden in 
shadow, watching the wizards, their bows hanging at 
their sides. And Harry remembered his first 
nightmarish trip into the forest, the first time he had 
