bad dreams?” 

“Not really bad,” said Harry, yawning and rubbing his 
eyes. “I’ve had worse.” 

The elf surveyed Harry out of his vast, orblike eyes. 
Then he said very seriously, his ears drooping, 

“Dobby wishes he could help Harry Potter, for Harry 
Potter set Dobby free and Dobby is much, much 
happier now...” 

Harry smiled. 

“You can’t help me, Dobby, but thanks for the offer...” 

He bent and picked up his Potions book. He’d have to 
try and finish the essay tomorrow. He closed the book 
and as he did so the firelight illuminated the thin 
white scars on the back of his hand — the result of 
his detention with Umbridge. 

“Wait a moment — there is something you can do for 
me, Dobby,” said Harry slowly. 

The elf looked around, beaming. 

“Name it, Harry Potter, sir!” 

“I need to find a place where twenty-eight people can 
practice Defense Against the Dark Arts without being 
discovered by any of the teachers. Especially,” Harry 
clenched his hand on the book, so that the scars 
shone pearly white, “Professor Umbridge.” 



Page | 494Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He expected the elf’s smile to vanish, his ears to 
droop; he expected him to say that this was 
impossible, or else that he would try, but his hopes 
were not high... What he had not expected was for 
Dobby to give a little skip, his ears waggling happily, 
and clap his hands together. 

“Dobby knows the perfect place, sir!” he said happily. 
“Dobby heard tell of it from the other house-elves 
when he came to Hogwarts, sir. It is known by us as 
the Come and Go Room, sir, or else as the Room of 
Requirement!” 

“Why?” said Harry curiously. 

“Because it is a room that a person can only enter,” 
said Dobby seriously, “when they have real need of it. 
Sometimes it is there, and sometimes it is not, but 
when it appears, it is always equipped for the seeker’s 
needs. Dobby has used it, sir,” said the elf, dropping 
his voice and looking guilty, “when Winky has been 
very drunk. He has hidden her in the Room of 
Requirement and he has found antidotes to 
butterbeer there, and a nice elf-sized bed to settle her 
on while she sleeps it off, sir... And Dobby knows Mr. 
Filch has found extra cleaning materials there when 
he has run short, sir, and — ” 

“ — and if you really needed a bathroom,” said Harry, 
suddenly remembering something Dumbledore had 
said at the Yule Ball the previous Christmas, “would 
it fill itself with chamber pots?” 

“Dobby expects so, sir,” said Dobby, nodding 
earnestly. “It is a most amazing room, sir.” 

“How many people know about it?” said Harry, sitting 
up straighter in his chair. 



Page | 495Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Very few, sir. Mostly people stumbles across it when 
they needs it, sir, but often they never finds it again, 
for they do not know that it is always there waiting to 
be called into service, sir.” 

“It sounds brilliant,” said Harry, his heart racing. “It 
sounds perfect, Dobby. When can you show me where 
it is?” 



“Anytime, Harry Potter, sir,” said Dobby, looking 
delighted at Harry’s enthusiasm. “We could go now, if 
you like!” 

For a moment Harry was tempted to go now; he was 
halfway out of his seat, intending to hurry upstairs 
for his Invisibility Cloak when, not for the first time, a 
voice very much like Hermione’s whispered in his ear: 
reckless. It was, after all, very late, he was exhausted 
and had Snape’s essay to finish. 

“Not tonight, Dobby,” said Harry reluctantly, sinking 
back into his chair. “This is really important... I don’t 
want to blow it, it’ll need proper planning... Listen, 
can you just tell me exactly where this Room of 
Requirement is and how to get in there?” 

Their robes billowed and swirled around them as they 
splashed across the flooded vegetable patch to double 
Herbology, where they could hardly hear what 
Professor Sprout was saying over the hammering of 
raindrops hard as hailstones on the greenhouse roof. 
The afternoon’s Care of Magical Creatures lesson was 
to be relocated from the storm-swept grounds to a 
free classroom on the ground floor and, to their 
intense relief, Angelina sought out her team at lunch 
to tell them that Quidditch practice was canceled. 

“Good,” said Harry quietly, when she told him, 
“because we’ve found somewhere to have our first 

Page | 496Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Defense meeting. Tonight, eight o’clock, seventh floor 
opposite that tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy being 
clubbed by those trolls. Can you tell Katie and 
Alicia?” 

She looked slightly taken aback but promised to tell 
the others; Harry returned hungrily to his sausages 
and mash. When he looked up to take a drink of 
pumpkin juice, he found Hermione watching him. 

“What?” he said thickly. 

“Well ... it’s just that Dobby’s plans aren’t always that 
safe. Don’t you remember when he lost you all the 
bones in your arm?” 

“This room isn’t just some mad idea of Dobby’s; 
Dumbledore knows about it too, he mentioned it to 
me at the Yule Ball.” 

Hermione’s expression cleared. 

“Dumbledore told you about it?” 

“Just in passing,” said Harry, shrugging. 

“Oh well, that’s all right then,” said Hermione briskly 
and she raised no more objections. 

Together with Ron they had spent most of the day 
seeking out those people who had signed their names 
to the list in the Hog’s Head and telling them where to 
meet that evening. Somewhat to Harry’s 
disappointment, it was Ginny who managed to find 
Cho Chang and her friend first; however, by the end 
of dinner he was confident that the news had been 
passed to every one of the twenty-five people who had 
turned up in the Hog’s Head. 



Page | 497Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




At half-past seven Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the 
Gryffindor common room, Harry clutching a certain 
piece of aged parchment in his hand. Fifth years were 
allowed to be out in the corridors until nine o’clock, 
but all three of them kept looking around nervously 
as they made their way up to the seventh floor. 

“Hold it,” said Harry warningly, unfolding the piece of 
parchment at the top of the last staircase, tapping it 
with his wand, and muttering, “I solemnly swear that 
I am up to no good.” 

A map of Hogwarts appeared upon the blank surface 
of the parchment. Tiny black moving dots, labeled 
with names, showed where various people were. 

“Filch is on the second floor,” said Harry, holding the 
map close to his eyes and scanning it closely, “and 
Mrs. Norris is on the fourth.” 

“And Umbridge?” said Hermione anxiously. 

“In her office,” said Harry, pointing. “Okay, let’s go.” 

They hurried along the corridor to the place Dobby 
had described to Harry, a stretch of blank wall 
opposite an enormous tapestry depicting Barnabas 
the Barmy’s foolish attempt to train trolls for the 
ballet. 

“Okay,” said Harry quietly, while a moth-eaten troll 
paused in his relentless clubbing of the would-be 
ballet teacher to watch. “Dobby said to walk past this 
bit of wall three times, concentrating hard on what we 
need.” 

They did so, turning sharply at the window just 
beyond the blank stretch of wall, then at the man-size 
vase on its other side. Ron had screwed up his eyes in 

Page | 498Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




concentration, Hermione was whispering something 
under her breath, Harry’s fists were clenched as he 
stared ahead of him. 

We need somewhere to learn to fight... he thought. 

Just give us a place to practice ... somewhere they 
can’t find us ... 

“Harry,” said Hermione sharply, as they wheeled 
around after their third walk past. 

A highly polished door had appeared in the wall. Ron 
was staring at it, looking slightly wary. Harry reached 
out, seized the brass handle, pulled open the door, 
and led the way into a spacious room lit with 
flickering torches like those that illuminated the 
dungeons eight floors below. 

The walls were lined with wooden bookcases, and 
instead of chairs there were large silk cushions on the 
floor. A set of shelves at the far end of the room 
carried a range of instruments such as Sneakoscopes, 
Secrecy Sensors, and a large, cracked Foe-Glass that 
Harry was sure had hung, the previous year, in the 
fake Moody’s office. 

“These will be good when we’re practicing Stunning,” 
said Ron enthusiastically, prodding one of the 
cushions with his foot. 

“And just look at these books!” said Hermione 
excitedly, running a finger along the spines of the 
large leather-bound tomes. “A Compendium of 
Common Curses and Their Counter-Actions ... The 
Dark Arts Outsmarted ... Self-Defensive Spellwork ... 
wow ...” She looked around at Harry, her face 
glowing, and he saw that the presence of hundreds of 
books had finally convinced Hermione that what they 



Page | 499Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




were doing was right. “Harry, this is wonderful, 
there’s everything we need here!” 

And without further ado she slid Jinxes for the Jinxed 
from its shelf, sank onto the nearest cushion, and 
began to read. 

There was a gentle knock on the door. Harry looked 
around; Ginny, Neville, Lavender, Parvati, and Dean 
had arrived. 

“Whoa,” said Dean, staring around, impressed. “What 
is this place?” 

Harry began to explain, but before he had finished 
more people had arrived, and he had to start all over 
again. By the time eight o’clock arrived, every cushion 
was occupied. Harry moved across to the door and 
turned the key protruding from the lock; it clicked in 
a satisfyingly loud way and everybody fell silent, 
looking at him. Hermione carefully marked her page 
of Jinxes for the Jinxed and set the book aside. 

“Well,” said Harry, slightly nervously. “This is the 
place we’ve found for practices, and you’ve — er — 
obviously found it okay — ” 

“It’s fantastic!” said Cho, and several people 
murmured their agreement. 

“It’s bizarre,” said Fred, frowning around at it. “We 
once hid from Filch in here, remember, George? But it 
was just a broom cupboard then...” 

“Hey, Harry, what’s this stuff?” asked Dean from the 
rear of the room, indicating the Sneakoscopes and the 
Foe-Glass. 



Page | 500Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Dark Detectors,” said Harry, stepping between the 
cushions to reach them. “Basically they all show 
when Dark wizards or enemies are around, but you 
don’t want to rely on them too much, they can be 
fooled...” 

He gazed for a moment into the cracked Foe-Glass; 
shadowy figures were moving around inside it, though 
none was recognizable. He turned his back on it. 

“Well, I’ve been thinking about the sort of stuff we 
ought to do first and — er — ” He noticed a raised 
hand. “What, Hermione?” 

“I think we ought to elect a leader,” said Hermione. 

“Harry’s leader,” said Cho at once, looking at 
Hermione as though she were mad, and Harry’s 
stomach did yet another back flip. 

“Yes, but I think we ought to vote on it properly,” said 
Hermione, unperturbed. “It makes it formal and it 
gives him authority. So — everyone who thinks Harry 
ought to be our leader?” 

Everybody put up their hands, even Zacharias Smith, 
though he did it very halfheartedly. 

“Er — right, thanks,” said Harry, who could feel his 
face burning. “And — what, Hermione?” 

“I also think we ought to have a name,” she said 
brightly, her hand still in the air. “It would promote a 
feeling of team spirit and unity, don’t you think?” 

“Can we be the Anti-Umbridge League?” said Angelina 
hopefully. 



Page | 501Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Or the Ministry of Magic Are Morons Group?” 
suggested Fred. 

“I was thinking,” said Hermione, frowning at Fred, 
“more of a name that didn’t tell everyone what we 
were up to, so we can refer to it safely outside 
meetings.” 

“The Defense Association?” said Cho. “The D.A. for 
short, so nobody knows what we’re talking about?” 

“Yeah, the D.A.’s good,” said Ginny. “Only let’s make 
it stand for Dumbledore’s Army because that’s the 
Ministry’s worst fear, isn’t it?” 

There was a good deal of appreciative murmuring and 
laughter at this. 

“All in favor of the D.A.?” said Hermione bossily, 
kneeling up on her cushion to count. “That’s a 
majority — motion passed!” 

She pinned the piece of paper with all of their names 
on it on the wall and wrote DUMBLEDORE’S ARMY 
across the top in large letters. 

“Right,” said Harry, when she had sat down again, 
“shall we get practicing then? I was thinking, the first 
thing we should do is Expelliarmus, you know, the 
Disarming Charm. I know it’s pretty basic but I’ve 
found it really useful — ” 

“Oh please,” said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eyes 
and folding his arms. “I don’t think Expelliarmus is 
exactly going to help us against You-Know-Who, do 
you?” 

“I’ve used it against him,” said Harry quietly. “It saved 
my life last June.” 

Page | 502Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Smith opened his mouth stupidly. The rest of the 
room was very quiet. 

“But if you think it’s beneath you, you can leave,” 
Harry said. 

Smith did not move. Nor did anybody else. 

“Okay,” said Harry, his mouth slightly drier than 
usual with all those eyes upon him, “I reckon we 
should all divide into pairs and practice.” 

It felt very odd to be issuing instructions, but not 
nearly as odd as seeing them followed. Everybody got 
to their feet at once and divided up. Predictably, 
Neville was left partnerless. 

“You can practice with me,” Harry told him. “Right — 
on the count of three, then — one, two, three — ” 

The room was suddenly full of shouts of 
“Expelliarmusl”: Wands flew in all directions, missed 
spells hit books on shelves and sent them flying into 
the air. Harry was too quick for Neville, whose wand 
went spinning out of his hand, hit the ceiling in a 
shower of sparks, and landed with a clatter on top of 
a bookshelf, from which Harry retrieved it with a 
Summoning Charm. Glancing around he thought he 
had been right to suggest that they practice the 
basics first; there was a lot of shoddy spellwork going 
on; many people were not succeeding in disarming 
their opponents at all, but merely causing them to 
jump backward a few paces or wince as the feeble 
spell whooshed over them. 

“Expelliarmusl” said Neville, and Harry, caught 
unawares, felt his wand fly out of his hand. 



Page | 503Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I DID IT!” said Neville gleefully. “I’ve never done it 
before — I DID IT!” 



“Good one!” said Harry encouragingly, deciding not to 
point out that in a real duel situation Neville’s 
opponent was unlikely to be staring in the opposite 
direction with his wand held loosely at his side. 
“Listen, Neville, can you take it in turns to practice 
with Ron and Hermione for a couple of minutes so I 
can walk around and see how the rest are doing?” 

Harry moved off into the middle of the room. 
Something very odd was happening to Zacharias 
Smith; every time he opened his mouth to disarm 
Anthony Goldstein, his own wand would fly out of his 
hand, yet Anthony did not seem to be making a 
sound. Harry did not have to look far for the solution 
of the mystery, however; Fred and George were 
several feet from Smith and taking it in turns to point 
their wands at his back. 

“Sorry, Harry,” said George hastily, when Harry 
caught his eye. “Couldn’t resist ...” 

Harry walked around the other pairs, trying to correct 
those who were doing the spell wrong. Ginny was 
teamed with Michael Corner; she was doing very well, 
whereas Michael was either very bad or unwilling to 
jinx her. Ernie Macmillan was flourishing his wand 
unnecessarily, giving his partner time to get in under 
his guard; the Creevey brothers were enthusiastic but 
erratic and mainly responsible for all the books 
leaping off the shelves around them. Luna Lovegood 
was similarly patchy, occasionally sending Justin 
Finch-Fletchley’s wand spinning out of his hand, at 
other times merely causing his hair to stand on end. 

“Okay, stop!” Harry shouted. “Stop\ STOP.” 

Page | 504Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




I need a whistle, he thought, and immediately spotted 
one lying on top of the nearest row of books. He 
caught it up and blew hard. Everyone lowered their 
wands. 

“That wasn’t bad,” said Harry, “but there’s definite 
room for improvement.” Zacharias Smith glared at 
him. “Let’s try again...” 

He moved off around the room again, stopping here 
and there to make suggestions. Slowly the general 
performance improved. He avoided going near Cho 
and her friend for a while, but after walking twice 
around every other pair in the room felt he could not 
ignore them any longer. 

“Oh no,” said Cho rather wildly as he approached. 

“ Expelliarmiousl I mean, Exnellimellius\ I — oh, sorry, 
Marietta!” 

Her curly-haired friend’s sleeve had caught fire; 
Marietta extinguished it with her own wand and 
glared at Harry as though it was his fault. 

“You made me nervous, I was doing all right before 
then!” Cho told Harry ruefully. 

“That was quite good,” Harry lied, but when she 
raised her eyebrows he said, “Well, no, it was lousy, 
but I know you can do it properly, I was watching 
from over there...” 

She laughed. Her friend Marietta looked at them 
rather sourly and turned away. 

“Don’t mind her,” Cho muttered. “She doesn’t really 
want to be here but I made her come with me. Her 
parents have forbidden her to do anything that might 



Page | 505Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




upset Umbridge, you see — her mum works for the 
Ministry.” 

“What about your parents?” asked Harry. 

“Well, they’ve forbidden me to get on the wrong side of 
Umbridge too,” said Cho, drawing herself up proudly. 
“But if they think I’m not going to fight You-Know- 
Who after what happened to Cedric — ” 

She broke off, looking rather confused, and an 
awkward silence fell between them; Terry Boot’s wand 
went whizzing past Harry’s ear and hit Alicia Spinnet 
hard on the nose. 

“Well, my father is very supportive of any anti- 
Ministry action!” said Luna Lovegood proudly from 
just behind Harry; evidently she had been 
eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin 
Finch-Fletchley attempted to disentangle himself from 
the robes that had flown up over his head. “He’s 
always saying he’d believe anything of Fudge, I mean, 
the number of goblins Fudge has had assassinated! 
And of course he uses the Department of Mysteries to 
develop terrible poisons, which he feeds secretly to 
anybody who disagrees with him. And then there’s his 
Umgubular Slashkilter — ” 

“Don’t ask,” Harry muttered to Cho as she opened her 
mouth, looking puzzled. She giggled. 

“Hey, Harry,” Hermione called from the other end of 
the room, “have you checked the time?” 

He looked down at his watch and received a shock — 
it was already ten past nine, which meant they 
needed to get back to their common rooms 
immediately or risk being caught and punished by 
Filch for being out-of-bounds. He blew his whistle; 
Page | 506Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




everybody stopped shouting, “ Expelliarmusl” and the 
last couple of wands clattered to the floor. 

“Well, that was pretty good,” said Harry, “but we’ve 
overrun, we’d better leave it here. Same time, same 
place next week?” 

“Sooner!” said Dean Thomas eagerly and many people 
nodded in agreement. 

Angelina, however, said quickly, “The Quidditch 
season’s about to start, we need team practices too!” 

“Let’s say next Wednesday night, then,” said Harry, 
“and we can decide on additional meetings then... 
Come on, we’d better get going...” 

He pulled out the Marauder’s Map again and checked 
it carefully for signs of teachers on the seventh floor. 
He let them all leave in threes and fours, watching 
their tiny dots anxiously to see that they returned 
safely to their dormitories: the Hufflepuffs to the 
basement corridor that also led to the kitchens, the 
Ravenclaws to a tower on the west side of the castle, 
and the Gryffindors along the corridor to the seventh 
floor and the Fat Lady’s portrait. 

“That was really, really good, Harry,” said Hermione, 
when finally it was just her, Harry, and Ron left. 

“Yeah, it was!” said Ron enthusiastically, as they 
slipped out of the door and watched it melt back into 
stone behind them. “Did you see me disarm 
Hermione, Harry?” 

“Only once,” said Hermione, stung. “I got you loads 
more than you got me — ” 



Page | 507Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I did not only get you once, I got you at least three 
times — ” 

“Well, if you’re counting the one where you tripped 
over your own feet and knocked the wand out of my 
hand — ” 

They argued all the way back to the common room, 
but Harry was not listening to them. He had one eye 
on the Marauder’s Map, but he was also thinking of 
how Cho had said he made her nervous... 



Page | 508Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE LION AND THE SERPENT 

Harry felt as though he were carrying some kind of 
talisman inside his chest over the following two 
weeks, a glowing secret that supported him through 
Umbridge’s classes and even made it possible for him 
to smile blandly as he looked into her horrible bulging 
eyes. He and the D.A. were resisting her under her 
very nose, doing the very thing that she and the 
Ministry most feared, and whenever he was supposed 
to be reading Wilbert Slinkhard’s book during her 
lessons he dwelled instead on satisfying memories of 
their most recent meetings, remembering how Neville 
had successfully disarmed Hermione, how Colin 
Creevey had mastered the Impediment Jinx after 
three meetings’ hard effort, how Parvati Patil had 
produced such a good Reductor Curse that she had 
reduced the table carrying all the Sneakoscopes to 
dust. 

He was finding it almost impossible to fix a regular 
night of the week for D.A. meetings, as they had to 
accommodate three separate Quidditch teams’ 
practices, which were often rearranged depending on 

Page | 509Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



the weather conditions; but Harry was not sorry 
about this, he had a feeling that it was probably 
better to keep the timing of their meetings 
unpredictable. If anyone was watching them, it would 
be hard to make out a pattern. 

Hermione soon devised a very clever method of 
communicating the time and date of the next meeting 
to all the members in case they needed to change it at 
short notice, because it would look so suspicious if 
people from different Houses were seen crossing the 
Great Hall to talk to each other too often. She gave 
each of the members of the D.A. a fake Galleon (Ron 
became very excited when he saw the basket at first, 
convinced that she was actually giving out gold). 

“You see the numerals around the edge of the coins?” 
Hermione said, holding one up for examination at the 
end of their fourth meeting. The coin gleamed fat and 
yellow in the light from the torches. “On real Galleons 
that’s just a serial number referring to the goblin who 
cast the coin. On these fake coins, though, the 
numbers will change to reflect the time and date of 
the next meeting. The coins will grow hot when the 
date changes, so if you’re carrying them in a pocket 
you’ll be able to feel them. We take one each, and 
when Harry sets the date of the next meeting he’ll 
change the numbers on his coin, and because I’ve put 
a Protean Charm on them, they’ll all change to mimic 
his.” 

A blank silence greeted Hermione ’s words. She looked 
around at all the faces upturned to her, rather 
disconcerted. 

“Well — I thought it was a good idea,” she said 
uncertainly, “I mean, even if Umbridge asked us to 
turn out our pockets, there’s nothing fishy about 



Page | 510Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




carrying a Galleon, is there? But ... well, if you don’t 
want to use them ...” 

“You can do a Protean Charm?” said Terry Boot. 

“Yes,” said Hermione. 

“But that’s ... that’s N.E.W.T. standard, that is,” he 
said weakly. 

“Oh,” said Hermione, trying to look modest. “Oh ... 
well ... yes, I suppose it is...” 

“How come you’re not in Ravenclaw?” he demanded, 
staring at Hermione with something close to wonder. 
“With brains like yours?” 

“Well, the Sorting Hat did seriously consider putting 
me in Ravenclaw during my Sorting,” said Hermione 
brightly, “but it decided on Gryffindor in the end. So 
does that mean we’re using the Galleons?” 

There was a murmur of assent and everybody moved 
forward to collect one from the basket. Harry looked 
sideways at Hermione. 

“You know what these remind me of?” 

“No, what’s that?” 

“The Death Eaters’ scars. Voldemort touches one of 
them, and all their scars burn, and they know they’ve 
got to join him.” 

“Well ... yes,” said Hermione quietly. “That is where I 
got the idea ... but you’ll notice I decided to engrave 
the date on bits of metal rather than on our members’ 
skin...” 



Page | 511Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah ... I prefer your way,” said Harry, grinning, as 
he slipped his Galleon into his pocket. “I suppose the 
only danger with these is that we might accidentally 
spend them.” 

“Fat chance,” said Ron, who was examining his own 
fake Galleon with a slightly mournful air. “I haven’t 
got any real Galleons to confuse it with.” 

As the first Quidditch match of the season, Gryffindor 
versus Slytherin, drew nearer, their D.A. meetings 
were put on hold because Angelina insisted on almost 
daily practices. The fact that the Quidditch Cup had 
not been held for so long added considerably to the 
interest and excitement surrounding the forthcoming 
game. The Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were taking a 
lively interest in the outcome, for they, of course, 
would be playing both teams over the coming year; 
and the Heads of House of the competing teams, 
though they attempted to disguise it under a decent 
pretense of sportsmanship, were determined to see 
their side’s victory. Harry realized how much 
Professor McGonagall cared about beating Slytherin 
when she abstained from giving them homework in 
the week leading up to the match. 

“I think you’ve got enough to be getting on with at the 
moment,” she said loftily. Nobody could quite believe 
their ears until she looked directly at Harry and Ron 
and said grimly, “I’ve become accustomed to seeing 
the Quidditch Cup in my study, boys, and I really 
don’t want to have to hand it over to Professor Snape, 
so use the extra time to practice, won’t you?” 

Snape was no less obviously partisan: He had booked 
the Quidditch pitch for Slytherin practice so often 
that the Gryffindors had difficulty getting on it to 
play. He was also turning a deaf ear to the many 
reports of Slytherin attempts to hex Gryffindor 
Page | 512Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




players in the corridors. When Alicia Spinnet turned 
up in the hospital wing with her eyebrows growing so 
thick and fast that they obscured her vision and 
obstructed her mouth, Snape insisted that she must 
have attempted a Hair-Thickening Charm on herself 
and refused to listen to the fourteen eyewitnesses who 
insisted that they had seen the Slytherin Keeper, 

Miles Bletchley, hit her from behind with a jinx while 
she worked in the library. 

Harry felt optimistic about Gryffindor’s chances; they 
had, after all, never lost to Malfoy’s team. Admittedly 
Ron was still not performing to Wood’s standard, but 
he was working extremely hard to improve. His 
greatest weakness was a tendency to lose confidence 
when he made a blunder; if he let in one goal he 
became flustered and was therefore likely to miss 
more. On the other hand, Harry had seen Ron make 
some truly spectacular saves when he was on form: 
During one memorable practice, he had hung one- 
handed from his broom and kicked the Quaffle so 
hard away from the goal hoop that it soared the 
length of the pitch and through the center hoop at the 
other end. The rest of the team felt this save 
compared favorably with one made recently by Barry 
Ryan, the Irish International Keeper, against Poland’s 
top Chaser, Ladislaw Zamojski. Even Fred had said 
that Ron might yet make him and George proud, and 
that they were seriously considering admitting that he 
was related to them, something he assured Ron they 
had been trying to deny for four years. 

The only thing really worrying Harry was how much 
Ron was allowing the tactics of the Slytherin team to 
upset him before they even got onto the pitch. Harry, 
of course, had endured their snide comments for 
more than four years, so whispers of, “Hey, Potty, I 
heard Warrington’s sworn to knock you off your 
broom on Saturday,” far from chilling his blood, made 
Page | 513Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




him laugh. “Warrington’s aim’s so pathetic I’d be 
more worried if he was aiming for the person next to 
me,” he retorted, which made Ron and Hermione 
laugh and wiped the smirk off Pansy Parkinson’s face. 

But Ron had never endured a relentless campaign of 
insults, jeers, and intimidation. When Slytherins, 
some of them seventh years and considerably larger 
than he was, muttered as they passed in the 
corridors, “Got your bed booked in the hospital wing, 
Weasley?” he did not laugh, but turned a delicate 
shade of green. When Draco Malfoy imitated Ron 
dropping the Quaffle (which he did whenever they 
were within sight of each other), Ron’s ears glowed 
red and his hands shook so badly that he was likely 
to drop whatever he was holding at the time too. 

October extinguished itself in a rush of howling winds 
and driving rain and November arrived, cold as frozen 
iron, with hard frosts every morning and icy drafts 
that bit at exposed hands and faces. The skies and 
the ceiling of the Great Hall turned a pale, pearly 
gray, the mountains around Hogwarts became 
snowcapped, and the temperature in the castle 
dropped so far that many students wore their thick 
protective dragon skin gloves in the corridors between 
lessons. 

The morning of the match dawned bright and cold. 
When Harry awoke he looked around at Ron’s bed 
and saw him sitting bolt upright, his arms around his 
knees, staring fixedly into space. 

“You all right?” said Harry. 

Ron nodded but did not speak. Harry was reminded 
forcibly of the time that Ron had accidentally put a 
slug- vomiting charm on himself. He looked just as 



Page | 514Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




pale and sweaty as he had done then, not to mention 
as reluctant to open his mouth. 



“You just need some breakfast,” Harry said bracingly. 
“C’mon.” 

The Great Hall was filling up fast when they arrived, 
the talk louder and the mood more exuberant than 
usual. As they passed the Slytherin table there was 
an upsurge of noise; Harry looked around and saw 
that nearly everyone there was wearing, in addition to 
the usual green-and-silver scarves and hats, silver 
badges in the shape of what seemed to be crowns. For 
some reason many of them waved at Ron, laughing 
uproariously. Harry tried to see what was written on 
the badges as he walked by, but he was too 
concerned to get Ron past their table quickly to linger 
long enough to read them. 

They received a rousing welcome at the Gryffindor 
table, where everyone was wearing red and gold, but 
far from raising Ron’s spirits the cheers seemed to 
sap the last of his morale; he collapsed onto the 
nearest bench looking as though he were facing his 
final meal. 

“I must’ve been mental to do this,” he said in a croaky 
whisper. “Mental.” 

“Don’t be thick,” said Harry firmly, passing him a 
choice of cereals. “You’re going to be fine. It’s normal 
to be nervous.” 

“I’m rubbish,” croaked Ron. “I’m lousy. I can’t play to 
save my life. What was I thinking?” 

“Get a grip,” said Harry sternly. “Look at that save 
you made with your foot the other day, even Fred and 
George said it was brilliant — ” 

Page | 515Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron turned a tortured face to Harry. 



“That was an accident,” he whispered miserably. “I 
didn’t mean to do it — I slipped off my broom when 
none of you were looking and I was trying to get back 
on and I kicked the Quaffle by accident.” 

“Well,” said Harry, recovering quickly from this 
unpleasant surprise, “a few more accidents like that 
and the game’s in the bag, isn’t it?” 

Hermione and Ginny sat down opposite them wearing 
red-and-gold scarves, gloves, and rosettes. 

“How’re you feeling?” Ginny asked Ron, who was now 
staring into the dregs of milk at the bottom of his 
empty cereal bowl as though seriously considering 
attempting to drown himself in them. 

“He’s just nervous,” said Harry. 

“Well, that’s a good sign, I never feel you perform as 
well in exams if you’re not a bit nervous,” said 
Hermione heartily. 

“Hello,” said a vague and dreamy voice from behind 
them. Harry looked up: Luna Lovegood had drifted 
over from the Ravenclaw table. Many people were 
staring at her and a few openly laughing and 
pointing; she had managed to procure a hat shaped 
like a life-size lion’s head, which was perched 
precariously on her head. 

“I’m supporting Gryffindor,” said Luna, pointing 
unnecessarily at her hat. “Look what it does...” 

She reached up and tapped the hat with her wand. It 
opened its mouth wide and gave an extremely realistic 
roar that made everyone in the vicinity jump. 
