“I’m sorry.” 

“I’m not interested.” 

“I’m sorry!” 

“Save your breath.” 

It was nighttime. Lily, who was wearing a dressing 
gown, stood with her arms folded in front of the 
portrait of the Fat Lady, at the entrance to Gryffindor 
Tower. 

“I only came out because Mary told me you were 
threatening to sleep here.” 

“I was. I would have done. I never meant to call you 
Mudblood, it just — ” 

“Slipped out?” There was no pity in Lily’s voice. “It’s 
too late. I’ve made excuses for you for years. None of 
my friends can understand why I even talk to you. 
You and your precious little Death Eater friends — 
you see, you don’t even deny it! You don’t even deny 



Page | 764 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




that’s what you’re all aiming to be! You can’t wait to 
join You- Know- Who, can you?” 

He opened his mouth, but closed it without speaking. 

“I can’t pretend anymore. You’ve chosen your way, 

I’ve chosen mine.” 

“No — listen, I didn’t mean — ” 

“ — to call me Mudblood? But you call everyone of my 
birth Mudblood, Severus. Why should I be any 
different?” 

He struggled on the verge of speech, but with a 
contemptuous look she turned and climbed back 
through the portrait hole. ... 

The corridor dissolved, and the scene took a little 
longer to reform: Harry seemed to fly through shifting 
shapes and colors until his surroundings solidified 
again and he stood on a hilltop, forlorn and cold in 
the darkness, the wind whistling through the 
branches of a few leafless trees. The adult Snape was 
panting, turning on the spot, his wand gripped tightly 
in his hand, waiting for something or for someone. ... 
His fear infected Harry too, even though he knew that 
he could not be harmed, and he looked over his 
shoulder, wondering what it was that Snape was 
waiting for — 

Then a blinding, jagged jet of white light flew through 
the air: Harry thought of lightning, but Snape had 
dropped to his knees and his wand had flown out of 
his hand. 

“Don’t kill me!” 

“That was not my intention.” 

Page | 765 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Any sound of Dumbledore Apparating had been 
drowned by the sound of the wind in the branches. 

He stood before Snape with his robes whipping 
around him, and his face was illuminated from below 
in the light cast by his wand. 

“Well, Severus? What message does Lord Voldemort 
have for me?” 

“No — no message — I’m here on my own account!” 

Snape was wringing his hands: He looked a little 
mad, with his straggling black hair flying around him. 

“I — I come with a warning — no, a request — please 



Dumbledore flicked his wand. Though leaves and 
branches still flew through the night air around them, 
silence fell on the spot where he and Snape faced 
each other. 

“What request could a Death Eater make of me?” 

“The — the prophecy . . . the prediction . . . Trelawney 



“Ah, yes,” said Dumbledore. “How much did you relay 
to Lord Voldemort?” 

“Everything — everything I heard!” said Snape. “That 
is why — it is for that reason — he thinks it means 
Lily Evans!” 

“The prophecy did not refer to a woman,” said 
Dumbledore. “It spoke of a boy born at the end of 
July — ” 



Page | 766 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You know what I mean! He thinks it means her son, 
he is going to hunt her down — kill them all — ” 

“If she means so much to you,” said Dumbledore, 
“surely Lord Voldemort will spare her? Could you not 
ask for mercy for the mother, in exchange for the 
son?” 

“I have — I have asked him — ” 

“You disgust me,” said Dumbledore, and Harry had 
never heard so much contempt in his voice. Snape 
seemed to shrink a little. “You do not care, then, 
about the deaths of her husband and child? They can 
die, as long as you have what you want?” 

Snape said nothing, but merely looked up at 
Dumbledore. 

“Hide them all, then,” he croaked. “Keep her — them 
— safe. Please.” 

“And what will you give me in return, Severus?” 

“In — in return?” Snape gaped at Dumbledore, and 
Harry expected him to protest, but after a long 
moment he said, “Anything.” 

The hilltop faded, and Harry stood in Dumbledore’s 
office, and something was making a terrible sound, 
like a wounded animal. Snape was slumped forward 
in a chair and Dumbledore was standing over him, 
looking grim. After a moment or two, Snape raised his 
face, and he looked like a man who had lived a 
hundred years of misery since leaving the wild hilltop. 

“I thought ... you were going ... to keep her ... safe. 



Page | 767 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“She and James put their faith in the wrong person,” 
said Dumbledore. “Rather like you, Severus. Weren’t 
you hoping that Lord Voldemort would spare her?” 

Snape’s breathing was shallow. 

“Her boy survives,” said Dumbledore. 

With a tiny jerk of the head, Snape seemed to flick off 
an irksome fly. 

“Her son lives. He has her eyes, precisely her eyes. 

You remember the shape and color of Lily Evans’s 
eyes, I am sure?” 

“DON’T!” bellowed Snape. “Gone ... dead ...” 

“Is this remorse, Severus?” 

“I wish ... I wish / were dead. ...” 

“And what use would that be to anyone?” said 
Dumbledore coldly. “If you loved Lily Evans, if you 
truly loved her, then your way forward is clear.” 

Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain, and 
Dumbledore ’s words appeared to take a long time to 
reach him. 

“What — what do you mean?” 

“You know how and why she died. Make sure it was 
not in vain. Help me protect Lily’s son.” 

“He does not need protection. The Dark Lord has gone 



“The Dark Lord will return, and Harry Potter will be in 
terrible danger when he does.” 

Page | 768 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There was a long pause, and slowly Snape regained 
control of himself, mastered his own breathing. At 
last he said, “Very well. Very well. But never — never 
tell, Dumbledore! This must be between us! Swear it! I 
cannot bear . . . especially Potter’s son ... I want your 
word!” 

“My word, Severus, that I shall never reveal the best 
of you?” Dumbledore sighed, looking down into 
Snape’s ferocious, anguished face. “If you insist ...” 

The office dissolved but re-formed instantly. Snape 
was pacing up and down in front of Dumbledore. 

“ — mediocre, arrogant as his father, a determined 
rule-breaker, delighted to find himself famous, 
attention-seeking and impertinent — ” 

“You see what you expect to see, Severus,” said 
Dumbledore, without raising his eyes from a copy of 
Transfiguration Today. “Other teachers report that the 
boy is modest, likable, and reasonably talented. 
Personally, I find him an engaging child.” 

Dumbledore turned a page, and said, without looking 
up, “Keep an eye on Quirrell, won’t you?” 

A whirl of color, and now everything darkened, and 
Snape and Dumbledore stood a little apart in the 
entrance hall, while the last stragglers from the Yule 
Ball passed them on their way to bed. 

“Well?” murmured Dumbledore. 

“Karkaroff’s Mark is becoming darker too. He is 
panicking, he fears retribution; you know how much 
help he gave the Ministry after the Dark Lord fell.” 
Snape looked sideways at Dumbledore ’s crooked- 



P a g e | 769 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




nosed profile. “Karkaroff intends to flee if the Mark 
burns.” 

“Does he?” said Dumbledore softly, as Fleur Delacour 
and Roger Davies came giggling in from the grounds. 
“And are you tempted to join him?” 

“No,” said Snape, his black eyes on Fleur’s and 
Roger’s retreating figures. “I am not such a coward.” 

“No,” agreed Dumbledore. “You are a braver man by 
far than Igor Karkaroff. You know, I sometimes think 
we Sort too soon. ...” 

He walked away, leaving Snape looking stricken. ... 

And now Harry stood in the headmaster’s office yet 
again. It was nighttime, and Dumbledore sagged 
sideways in the thronelike chair behind the desk, 
apparently semiconscious. His right hand dangled 
over the side, blackened and burned. Snape was 
muttering incantations, pointing his wand at the 
wrist of the hand, while with his left hand he tipped a 
goblet full of thick golden potion down Dumbledore ’s 
throat. After a moment or two, Dumbledore ’s eyelids 
fluttered and opened. 

“Why,” said Snape, without preamble, “ why did you 
put on that ring? It carries a curse, surely you 
realized that. Why even touch it?” 

Marvolo Gaunt’s ring lay on the desk before 
Dumbledore. It was cracked; the sword of Gryffindor 
lay beside it. 

Dumbledore grimaced. 

“I ... was a fool. Sorely tempted ...” 



Page | 770 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Tempted by what?” 
Dumbledore did not answer. 



“It is a miracle you managed to return here!” Snape 
sounded furious. “That ring carried a curse of 
extraordinary power, to contain it is all we can hope 
for; I have trapped the curse in one hand for the time 
being — ” 

Dumbledore raised his blackened, useless hand, and 
examined it with the expression of one being shown 
an interesting curio. 

“You have done very well, Severus. How long do you 
think I have?” 

Dumbledore ’s tone was conversational; he might have 
been asking for a weather forecast. Snape hesitated, 
and then said, “I cannot tell. Maybe a year. There is 
no halting such a spell forever. It will spread 
eventually, it is the sort of curse that strengthens over 
time.” 

Dumbledore smiled. The news that he had less than a 
year to live seemed a matter of little or no concern to 
him. 

“I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, 
Severus.” 

“If you had only summoned me a little earlier, I might 
have been able to do more, buy you more time!” said 
Snape furiously. He looked down at the broken ring 
and the sword. “Did you think that breaking the ring 
would break the curse?” 

“Something like that ... I was delirious, no doubt. ...” 
said Dumbledore. With an effort he straightened 

Page | 771 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




himself in his chair. “Well, really, this makes matters 
much more straightforward.” 

Snape looked utterly perplexed. Dumbledore smiled. 

“I refer to the plan Lord Voldemort is revolving around 
me. His plan to have the poor Malfoy boy murder me.” 

Snape sat down in the chair Harry had so often 
occupied, across the desk from Dumbledore. Harry 
could tell that he wanted to say more on the subject 
of Dumbledore ’s cursed hand, but the other held it up 
in polite refusal to discuss the matter further. 
Scowling, Snape said, “The Dark Lord does not expect 
Draco to succeed. This is merely punishment for 
Lucius’s recent failures. Slow torture for Draco’s 
parents, while they watch him fail and pay the price.” 

“In short, the boy has had a death sentence 
pronounced upon him as surely as I have,” said 
Dumbledore. “Now, I should have thought the natural 
successor to the job, once Draco fails, is yourself?” 

There was a short pause. 

“That, I think, is the Dark Lord’s plan.” 

“Lord Voldemort foresees a moment in the near future 
when he will not need a spy at Hogwarts?” 

“He believes the school will soon be in his grasp, yes.” 

“And if it does fall into his grasp,” said Dumbledore, 
almost, it seemed, as an aside, “I have your word that 
you will do all in your power to protect the students of 
Hogwarts?” 

Snape gave a stiff nod. 



Page | 772 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Good. Now then. Your first priority will be to discover 
what Draco is up to. A frightened teenage boy is a 
danger to others as well as to himself. Offer him help 
and guidance, he ought to accept, he likes you — ” 

“ — much less since his father has lost favor. Draco 
blames me, he thinks I have usurped Lucius’s 
position.” 

“All the same, try. I am concerned less for myself than 
for accidental victims of whatever schemes might 
occur to the boy. Ultimately, of course, there is only 
one thing to be done if we are to save him from Lord 
Voldemort’s wrath.” 

Snape raised his eyebrows and his tone was sardonic 
as he asked, “Are you intending to let him kill you?” 

“Certainly not. You must kill me.” 

There was a long silence, broken only by an odd 
clicking noise. Fawkes the phoenix was gnawing a bit 
of cuttlebone. 

“Would you like me to do it now?” asked Snape, his 
voice heavy with irony. “Or would you like a few 
moments to compose an epitaph?” 

“Oh, not quite yet,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “I 
daresay the moment will present itself in due course. 
Given what has happened tonight,” he indicated his 
withered hand, “we can be sure that it will happen 
within a year.” 

“If you don’t mind dying,” said Snape roughly, “why 
not let Draco do it?” 



Page | 773 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“That boy’s soul is not yet so damaged,” said 
Dumbledore. “I would not have it ripped apart on my 
account.” 

“And my soul, Dumbledore? Mine?” 

“You alone know whether it will harm your soul to 
help an old man avoid pain and humiliation,” said 
Dumbledore. “I ask this one great favor of you, 
Severus, because death is coming for me as surely as 
the Chudley Cannons will finish bottom of this year’s 
league. I confess I should prefer a quick, painless exit 
to the protracted and messy affair it will be if, for 
instance, Greyback is involved — I hear Voldemort 
has recruited him? Or dear Bellatrix, who likes to 
play with her food before she eats it.” 

His tone was light, but his blue eyes pierced Snape as 
they had frequently pierced Harry, as though the soul 
they discussed was visible to him. At last Snape gave 
another curt nod. 

Dumbledore seemed satisfied. 

“Thank you, Severus ...” 

The office disappeared, and now Snape and 
Dumbledore were strolling together in the deserted 
castle grounds by twilight. 

“What are you doing with Potter, all these evenings 
you are closeted together?” Snape asked abruptly. 

Dumbledore looked weary. 

“Why? You aren’t trying to give him more detentions, 
Severus? The boy will soon have spent more time in 
detention than out.” 



Page | 774 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“He is his father over again — ” 

“In looks, perhaps, but his deepest nature is much 
more like his mother’s. I spend time with Harry 
because I have things to discuss with him, 
information I must give him before it is too late.” 

“Information,” repeated Snape. “You trust him ... you 
do not trust me.” 

“It is not a question of trust. I have, as we both know, 
limited time. It is essential that I give the boy enough 
information for him to do what he needs to do.” 

“And why may I not have the same information?” 

“I prefer not to put all of my secrets in one basket, 
particularly not a basket that spends so much time 
dangling on the arm of Lord Voldemort.” 

“Which I do on your orders!” 

“And you do it extremely well. Do not think that I 
underestimate the constant danger in which you 
place yourself, Severus. To give Voldemort what 
appears to be valuable information while withholding 
the essentials is a job I would entrust to nobody but 
you.” 

“Yet you confide much more in a boy who is incapable 
of Occlumency, whose magic is mediocre, and who 
has a direct connection into the Dark Lord’s mind!” 

“Voldemort fears that connection,” said Dumbledore. 
“Not so long ago he had one small taste of what truly 
sharing Harry’s mind means to him. It was pain such 
as he has never experienced. He will not try to 
possess Harry again, I am sure of it. Not in that way.” 



Page | 775 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t understand.” 



“Lord Voldemort’s soul, maimed as it is, cannot bear 
close contact with a soul like Harry’s. Like a tongue 
on frozen steel, like flesh in flame — ” 

“Souls? We were talking of minds!” 

“In the case of Harry and Lord Voldemort, to speak of 
one is to speak of the other.” 

Dumbledore glanced around to make sure that they 
were alone. They were close by the Forbidden Forest 
now, but there was no sign of anyone near them. 

“After you have killed me, Severus — ” 

“You refuse to tell me everything, yet you expect that 
small service of me!” snarled Snape, and real anger 
flared in the thin face now. “You take a great deal for 
granted, Dumbledore! Perhaps I have changed my 
mind!” 

“You gave me your word, Severus. And while we are 
talking about services you owe me, I thought you 
agreed to keep a close eye on our young Slytherin 
friend?” 

Snape looked angry, mutinous. Dumbledore sighed. 

“Come to my office tonight, Severus, at eleven, and 
you shall not complain that I have no confidence in 
you. ...” 

They were back in Dumbledore ’s office, the windows 
dark, and Fawkes sat silent as Snape sat quite still, 
as Dumbledore walked around him, talking. 



Page | 776 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry must not know, not until the last moment, not 
until it is necessary, otherwise how could he have the 
strength to do what must be done?” 

“But what must he do?” 

“That is between Harry and me. Now listen closely, 
Severus. There will come a time — after my death — 
do not argue, do not interrupt! There will come a time 
when Lord Voldemort will seem to fear for the life of 
his snake.” 

“For Nagini?” Snape looked astonished. 

“Precisely. If there comes a time when Lord Voldemort 
stops sending that snake forth to do his bidding, but 
keeps it safe beside him under magical protection, 
then, I think, it will be safe to tell Harry.” 

“Tell him what?” 

Dumbledore took a deep breath and closed his eyes. 

“Tell him that on the night Lord Voldemort tried to kill 
him, when Lily cast her own life between them as a 
shield, the Killing Curse rebounded upon Lord 
Voldemort, and a fragment of Voldemort’s soul was 
blasted apart from the whole, and latched itself onto 
the only living soul left in that collapsing building. 

Part of Lord Voldemort lives inside Harry, and it is 
that which gives him the power of speech with 
snakes, and a connection with Lord Voldemort’s mind 
that he has never understood. And while that 
fragment of soul, unmissed by Voldemort, remains 
attached to and protected by Harry, Lord Voldemort 
cannot die.” 



Page | 777 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry seemed to be watching the two men from one 
end of a long tunnel, they were so far away from him, 
their voices echoing strangely in his ears. 

“So the boy . . . the boy must die?” asked Snape quite 
calmly. 

“And Voldemort himself must do it, Severus. That is 
essential.” 

Another long silence. Then Snape said, “I thought ... 
all these years . . . that we were protecting him for her. 
For Lily.” 

“We have protected him because it has been essential 
to teach him, to raise him, to let him try his strength,” 
said Dumbledore, his eyes still tight shut. 

“Meanwhile, the connection between them grows ever 
stronger, a parasitic growth: Sometimes I have 
thought he suspects it himself. If I know him, he will 
have arranged matters so that when he does set out 
to meet his death, it will truly mean the end of 
Voldemort.” 

Dumbledore opened his eyes. Snape looked horrified. 

“You have kept him alive so that he can die at the 
right moment?” 

“Don’t be shocked, Severus. How many men and 
women have you watched die?” 

“Lately, only those whom I could not save,” said 
Snape. He stood up. “You have used me.” 

“Meaning?” 

“I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in 
mortal danger for you. Everything was supposed to be 

Page | 778 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




to keep Lily Potter’s son safe. Now you tell me you 
have been raising him like a pig for slaughter — ” 

“But this is touching, Severus,” said Dumbledore 
seriously. “Have you grown to care for the boy, after 
all?” 

“For him?” shouted Snape. “Expecto Patronuml” 

From the tip of his wand burst the silver doe: She 
landed on the office floor, bounded once across the 
office, and soared out of the window. Dumbledore 
watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded 
he turned back to Snape, and his eyes were full of 
tears. 

“After all this time?” 

“Always,” said Snape. 

And the scene shifted. Now, Harry saw Snape talking 
to the portrait of Dumbledore behind his desk. 

“You will have to give Voldemort the correct date of 
Harry’s departure from his aunt and uncle’s,” said 
Dumbledore. “Not to do so will raise suspicion, when 
Voldemort believes you so well informed. However, 
you must plant the idea of decoys; that, I think, ought 
to ensure Harry’s safety. Try Confunding Mundungus 
Fletcher. And Severus, if you are forced to take part 
in the chase, be sure to act your part convincingly. ... 

I am counting upon you to remain in Lord 
Voldemort’s good books as long as possible, or 
Hogwarts will be left to the mercy of the Carrows. ...” 

Now Snape was head to head with Mundungus in an 
unfamiliar tavern, Mundungus ’s face looking 
curiously blank, Snape frowning in concentration. 



Page | 779 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You will suggest to the Order of the Phoenix,” Snape 
murmured, “that they use decoys. Polyjuice Potion. 
Identical Potters. It is the only thing that might work. 
You will forget that I have suggested this. You will 
present it as your own idea. You understand?” 

“I understand,” murmured Mundungus, his eyes 
unfocused. ... 

Now Harry was flying alongside Snape on a 
broomstick through a clear dark night: He was 
accompanied by other hooded Death Eaters, and 
ahead were Lupin and a Harry who was really George. 
... A Death Eater moved ahead of Snape and raised 
his wand, pointing it directly at Lupin’s back — 

“ Sectumsemprcd” shouted Snape. 

But the spell, intended for the Death Eater’s wand 
hand, missed and hit George instead — 

And next, Snape was kneeling in Sirius’s old 
bedroom. Tears were dripping from the end of his 
hooked nose as he read the old letter from Lily. The 
second page carried only a few words: 

could ever have been friends with Gellert Grindelwald. 

I think her mind’s going, personally! 

Lots of love, 

Lily 

Snape took the page bearing Lily’s signature, and her 
love, and tucked it inside his robes. Then he ripped in 
two the photograph he was also holding, so that he 
kept the part from which Lily laughed, throwing the 
portion showing James and Harry back onto the floor, 
under the chest of drawers. ... 

Page | 780 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




And now Snape stood again in the headmaster’s 
study as Phineas Nigellus came hurrying into his 
portrait. 

“Headmaster! They are camping in the Forest of Dean! 
The Mudblood — ” 

“Do not use that word!” 

“ — the Granger girl, then, mentioned the place as she 
opened her bag and I heard her!” 

“Good. Very good!” cried the portrait of Dumbledore 
behind the headmaster’s chair. “Now, Severus, the 
sword! Do not forget that it must be taken under 
conditions of need and valor — and he must not know 
that you give it! If Voldemort should read Harry’s 
mind and see you acting for him — ” 

“I know,” said Snape curtly. He approached the 
portrait of Dumbledore and pulled at its side. It 
swung forward, revealing a hidden cavity behind it 
from which he took the sword of Gryffindor. 

“And you still aren’t going to tell me why it’s so 
important to give Potter the sword?” said Snape as he 
swung a traveling cloak over his robes. 

“No, I don’t think so,” said Dumbledore’s portrait. “He 
will know what to do with it. And Severus, be very 
careful, they may not take kindly to your appearance 
after George Weasley’s mishap — ” 

Snape turned at the door. 

“Don’t worry, Dumbledore,” he said coolly. “I have a 
plan. ...” 



Page | 781 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




And Snape left the room. Harry rose up out of the 
Pensieve, and moments later he lay on the carpeted 
floor in exactly the same room: Snape might just have 
closed the door. 



Page | 782 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE FOREST AGAIN 

Finally, the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the 
dusty carpet of the office where he had once thought 
he was learning the secrets of victory, Harry 
understood at last that he was not supposed to 
survive. His job was to walk calmly into Death’s 
welcoming arms. Along the way, he was to dispose of 
Voldemort’s remaining links to life, so that when at 
last he flung himself across Voldemort’s path, and did 
not raise a wand to defend himself, the end would be 
clean, and the job that ought to have been done in 
Godric’s Hollow would be finished: Neither would live, 
neither could survive. 

He felt his heart pounding fiercely in his chest. How 
strange that in his dread of death, it pumped all the 
harder, valiantly keeping him alive. But it would have 
to stop, and soon. Its beats were numbered. How 
many would there be time for, as he rose and walked 
through the castle for the last time, out into the 
grounds and into the forest? 



Page | 783 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Terror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with 
that funeral drum pounding inside him. Would it hurt 
to die? All those times he had thought that it was 
about to happen and escaped, he had never really 
thought of the thing itself: His will to live had always 
been so much stronger than his fear of death. Yet it 
did not occur to him now to try to escape, to outrun 
Voldemort. It was over, he knew it, and all that was 
left was the thing itself: dying. 

If he could only have died on that summer’s night 
when he had left number four, Privet Drive, for the 
last time, when the noble phoenix-feather wand had 
saved him! If he could only have died like Hedwig, so 
quickly he would not have known it had happened! 

Or if he could have launched himself in front of a 
wand to save someone he loved. ... He envied even his 
parents’ deaths now. This cold-blooded walk to his 
own destruction would require a different kind of 
bravery. He felt his fingers trembling slightly and 
made an effort to control them, although no one could 
see him; the portraits on the walls were all empty. 

Slowly, very slowly, he sat up, and as he did so he felt 
more alive and more aware of his own living body 
than ever before. Why had he never appreciated what 
a miracle he was, brain and nerve and bounding 
heart? It would all be gone ... or at least, he would be 
gone from it. His breath came slow and deep, and his 
mouth and throat were completely dry, but so were 
his eyes. 

Dumbledore’s betrayal was almost nothing. Of course 
there had been a bigger plan; Harry had simply been 
too foolish to see it, he realized that now. He had 
never questioned his own assumption that 
Dumbledore wanted him alive. Now he saw that his 
life span had always been determined by how long it 
took to eliminate all the Horcruxes. Dumbledore had 
Page | 784 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




passed the job of destroying them to him, and 
obediently he had continued to chip away at the 
bonds tying not only Voldemort, but himself, to life! 
How neat, how elegant, not to waste any more lives, 
but to give the dangerous task to the boy who had 
already been marked for slaughter, and whose death 
would not be a calamity, but another blow against 
Voldemort. 

And Dumbledore had known that Harry would not 
duck out, that he would keep going to the end, even 
though it was his end, because he had taken trouble 
to get to know him, hadn’t he? Dumbledore knew, as 
Voldemort knew, that Harry would not let anyone else 
die for him now that he had discovered it was in his 
power to stop it. The images of Fred, Lupin, and 
Tonks lying dead in the Great Hall forced their way 
back into his mind’s eye, and for a moment he could 
hardly breathe: Death was impatient. ... 

But Dumbledore had overestimated him. He had 
failed: The snake survived. One Horcrux remained to 
bind Voldemort to the earth, even after Harry had 
been killed. True, that would mean an easier job for 
somebody. He wondered who would do it. ... Ron and 
Hermione would know what needed to be done, of 
course. ... That would have been why Dumbledore 
wanted him to confide in two others ... so that if he 
fulfilled his true destiny a little early, they could carry 
on. ... 

Like rain on a cold window, these thoughts pattered 
against the hard surface of the incontrovertible truth, 
which was that he must die. I must die. It must end. 

Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a far- 
off country; he felt as though he had parted from 
them long ago. There would be no good-byes and no 
explanations, he was determined of that. This was a 

Page | 785 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




journey they could not take together, and the 
attempts they would make to stop him would waste 
valuable time. He looked down at the battered gold 
watch he had received on his seventeenth birthday. 
Nearly half of the hour allotted by Voldemort for his 
surrender had elapsed. 

He stood up. His heart was leaping against his ribs 
like a frantic bird. Perhaps it knew it had little time 
left, perhaps it was determined to fulfill a lifetime’s 
beats before the end. He did not look back as he 
closed the office door. 

The castle was empty. He felt ghostly striding through 
it alone, as if he had already died. The portrait people 
were still missing from their frames; the whole place 
was eerily still, as if all its remaining lifeblood were 
concentrated in the Great Hall where the dead and 
the mourners were crammed. 

Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak over himself and 
descended through the floors, at last walking down 
the marble staircase into the entrance hall. Perhaps 
some tiny part of him hoped to be sensed, to be seen, 
to be stopped, but the Cloak was, as ever, 
impenetrable, perfect, and he reached the front doors 
easily. 

Then Neville nearly walked into him. He was one half 
of a pair that was carrying a body in from the 
grounds. Harry glanced down and felt another dull 
blow to his stomach: Colin Creevey, though underage, 
must have sneaked back just as Malfoy, Crabbe, and 
Goyle had done. He was tiny in death. 

“You know what? I can manage him alone, Neville,” 
said Oliver Wood, and he heaved Colin over his 
shoulder in a fireman’s lift and carried him into the 
Great Hall. 

Page | 786 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Neville leaned against the door frame for a moment 
and wiped his forehead with the back of his hand. He 
looked like an old man. Then he set off down the 
steps again into the darkness to recover more bodies. 

Harry took one glance back at the entrance of the 
Great Hall. People were moving around, trying to 
comfort each other, drinking, kneeling beside the 
