The Project Gutenberg EBook of Monster of the Asteroid, by Ray Cummings

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Monster of the Asteroid

Author: Ray Cummings

Release Date: May 6, 2020 [EBook #62040]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MONSTER OF THE ASTEROID ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        MONSTER OF THE ASTEROID

                            By RAY CUMMINGS

              They might gamble, but win or lose the take
               was death for these two new slaves of the
          Master of that pitted Devil's Isle of outer space.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The amazing thing began that summer evening of 1965 while I was
sitting with Dora Franklin on the third ramp at the crossroads,
listening to the outdoor public-music. We were on the fringe of the
crowd in a secluded little place where there was a small bench under
the overhanging branches of a tree. It was a romantic scene with
the audience seated in crescent rows under the strings of colored
tubelights. My arm went around Dora, with her head against my shoulder
as we listened to the soft exotic music.

Around us, countless other couples were also listening in silence.

A pair of young lovers. I realize now that was doubtless what first
attracted the furtive man to us. How long he and his weird little
companion had been watching us I have no idea. I was aware of the two
dark shapes in the shadow under a nearby tree--a tall blob and a
short one. Then the tall one came forward; the short one lurked in the
deep shadows a few feet away.

"The music is very pretty?" a guttural voice said. It was a man in a
long, dull-black cloak. His black peaked hat had a fringe almost in
woman fashion which dangled past his ears and shrouded his face so
that I could hardly see it. With his mumbled greeting he sidled up and
dropped to the bench beside me, peering past me at Dora as though he
were infinitely more interested in her rather than me which was not in
itself a surprising fact.

"Yes," I agreed. Dora and I sat up and shifted reluctantly to give him
room. The little figure ten feet away, stood impassive. I recall that
I stared with a sudden startled astonishment; and then with a vague
shudder stabbing into me. The silent shape was no more than five feet
tall, so that with a quick glance here in the dimness one might have
thought it a half grown boy. A man's long black overcoat fell from the
top of its head almost to the ground, as though a boy had the overcoat
hung on his head, with all of him shrouded inside it. But the top of
the overcoat was limp, sagging. I had the sudden crazy thought that
the thing was headless--an overcoat hanging on wide square shoulders
without any head above them!

I shuddered involuntarily.

"You and the young lady like music?" the man beside me was saying. "It
is romantic. You are engaged maybe? Or honeymooning?" His voice was
almost too solicitous.

Between the shrouding fringe of his hat the colored tubelight sheen
gleamed on his partly shrouded face. It was pallid, hawk-nosed,
with burning dark eyes that still were staring with an almost rude
intentness at Dora.

"No," I said. I moved with an impulse to stand up and take Dora to
another bench, but the man's hand reached out and touched my arm.

"Just a minute," he said in his limping guttural voice. "My name is
Bragg. What is yours?"

"Ralston," I said stiffly. "Thomas Ralston."

I could see that Dora now was staring at that little lurking figure.
She, too, sensed that there was something gruesome about it.

The man beside me was speaking more swiftly now in a low furtive flow
of mumbled words. "I can interest young lovers like you. I have a
place, just for honey-mooners. A little colony of lovers. A place to
live, without cost, and no work. You would like it. A very beautiful
place."

"We're not married," I said. Was this weird fellow a solicitor for
some rich man's altruistic colony? I had heard of such places. In my
father's day there was a big one on an island off the Florida coast,
and another in the South Seas--colonies where newlyweds went to create
an earthly paradise, which, of course, wouldn't work out.

"But you will be married?" the man insisted. "It is a very beautiful
place. There is no place like it. I am sure Miss Franklin will--"

I tensed, jumped to my feet, and Dora stood up beside me. Miss
Franklin! But I hadn't named her. This fellow knew us then. At our
movement, it seemed that the little figure nearby was edging closer. I
am a pretty husky, six foot fellow. As I stood up, the man on the bench
rose also, with his hand still on my arm. He was about my height. I
flung off his light hold.

"Not interested," I said. "Come on, Dora."

We started to go.

Was that damnable, headless little thing about to pounce on me?
There were five hundred people here within sound of a shout, but
despite it a thrill of fear darted through me. I'm not exactly afraid
of anything human; but somehow this seemed different--as though
that square, box-like, wide-shouldered little thing were something
gruesome--something you couldn't fight with your fists. It was standing
sidewise to us now, in a deeper shadow than before and, even more than
before, I got the impression that the ominous-looking little figure was
headless.

"But won't you at least come and see what I have to show you?" the man
at my side was insisting. "It is not very far--"

"Thanks, no." I turned away with an arm around Dora. And suddenly the
man was slinking off with the wide-shouldered little thing following
after him on stiff little legs. In a moment they were gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

That was the beginning. The details of me are not important here; I
need only say that I was twenty-four that summer. Dora and I were
engaged to be married. Both of us were orphans. She was wealthy; I was
not, so that I did not want to marry until I had made a success of an
invention on which I was working--a ray-weapon with which I hoped,
not to make war more deadly, but to make war impossible. It was a
non-killing, paralyzing vibration. In theory, if I could project it any
great distance--a vibration on speeding form--then with it whole armies
would be stricken down, rendered helpless.

But I had not progressed that far as yet. I was living in Dora's home,
working in a small laboratory with which it was equipped. Just this
week I had completed a miniature projector. With tests upon animals it
seemed to be effective at some fifty feet....

Dora's home was some three miles out in the country from the Crossroads
Municipal Village where we had gone to hear the music. We took her
little air-roller which was parked nearby. We did not fly it for such
a short distance, merely rolled it out on the State Road. Dora was
frightened, but I tried to shrug away the mysterious incident.

"That--that little thing that stood watching us," she said. "Oh Tom--"

"Looked like a boy with an overcoat over his head," I told her. "Forget
it, Dora."

Had she noticed that the man who had accosted us knew her name? She did
not mention it, nor did I. We were approaching her home within five
minutes. Here, fifty miles north of New York City, there was one of
the infrequent patches of lonely country. Her small cement and metal
cottage nestled against a wooded hillside. Queer--as we rolled up,
the house was in complete darkness. Yet Mrs. Holten, our housekeeper,
certainly would not have retired now at ten o'clock.

We stopped at the main entrance and climbed out. "Oh Tom--" Dora
murmured. "Something very strange about this--"

She stood clinging to me, with the dark silent house beside us.
Overhead the moon was riding a sky of low, swift-flying clouds. The
trees around the house stirred with a night breeze, but beyond that
it seemed that everything was abnormally silent--a silence hanging
menacingly around us.

"Mrs. Holten must have gone to bed," I said. "Come on, let's go in."

But Mrs. Holten wasn't in the house. We called; then lighted all the
lights. The place was in perfect order, but the housekeeper was gone.

"Strange," I said. "I suppose something called her away. She should
have left us a note."

But what I didn't say was that on the wall of the hall, near the door
of the laboratory there were dark marks on the plaster--marks that
suggested a burn, as though heat had struck the wall.

"Tom, come here," Dora called from the living room. "What a queer
smell!"

I met her frightened gaze; her nostrils were dilating. I could smell
it--an acrid, pungent smell.

"_Government Food Depot Raided!_" The crisp low voice here with us
in the living room was so unexpected that Dora gave a low scream and
clutched me. It was our news-radio which Mrs. Holten had evidently left
on; and now a news announcement was being made. "_Allenville, New York.
Mysterious raiders broke into the Government Surplus Food Depot, here
tonight--probably about 9.50 p.m. Large supplies of sealed cooked food
stolen. Four watchmen found dead--others missing._"

Dora and I stood stricken, listening to the newscaster's droning voice.
Allenville was the Municipal Housing Village we had just left. The
Government Food Storehouses were on its other side half a mile from
where we had heard the music.

"... _and the bodies of the watchmen show that they were attacked by
some mysterious weapon. There are no wounds. The clothing is charred a
little, as though some weird form of heat were applied. Two of the men
have burned spots on the forehead--as though some electric charge of a
lethal power_--"

The signal lights on top of our instrument showed that another
public-news station was signalling it had a visual broadcast of
immediate interest. I reached and tuned to it. The televisor glowed.
Numbed with startled horror, Dora and I stood staring at the moving
image on the televisor grid. It was from a public observor lens mounted
on a pole beside one of the roads leading out of Allenville. An alarm
signal had been turned in by a traffic director there on a crossing
ramp. He had evidently flung on the alarm-light so that all the scene
was bathed in its white actinic glare. And the road-side observing lens
was bringing it now to us, broadcasting it to every receiving set in
the country.

What we saw was the crossing ramp with milling, frightened pedestrians
and the traffic in a tangle. Momentarily the people were blinded by
the glare and deafened by the shrieking of the alarm-siren. In the
background loomed a building which I knew was another of the Government
Food Depots. The alarm evidently had originated there.

"Tom--look--that doorway!" Dora murmured.

From one of the dark doorways of the Food Depot a little figure came
scurrying out. And then another--and at the foot of the ramp where
the crowd was milling, several others suddenly were visible. Figures
identical with the one which had watched us by the bench!

"Oh Tom--dear God!"

For a brief instant one of them was bathed in the alarm-light and our
image of the turmoil showed it clearly. The shrouding garment was open
in front as it faced us. The scurrying little thing was headless! It
seemed to have square wide shoulders, straight across from tip to
tip--no neck--no head! The glimpse was ended in another second as the
thing darted away and was gone in the turmoil.

In our living room, Dora and I stood stricken. And suddenly our room
tubelight was extinguished and we were plunged into darkness! There was
just the moonlight glow from one of the living room's open windows--a
pallid rectangle where now I saw a weird box-like thing lurching as it
climbed over the sill!

A little automatic bullet-projector for home emergency use was hanging
on a rack beside me. I snatched it. The disintegrating air-charge
hurled the bullet with an almost soundless whizz. My aim doubtless
was true enough; but from the oncoming little creature a faint violet
radiance was streaming out, like an enveloping aura around it, visible
now in the darkness. The bullet melted with a soundless little puff of
light.

I was aware that Dora was clutching at me, screaming. Then something
hit us with a numbing electric shock. I was conscious of nothing save
that I was falling; galvanized so that I went down rigid, with a crash.
Then there was only Dora's scream of terror, swiftly fading as my
senses were flung away.

       *       *       *       *       *

I came to myself with the sense that a considerable time had passed. I
knew that I was thinking. For a while it seemed that there was nothing
of me alive, except my mind. I was conscious now that my body was numb;
lifeless.

Like catalepsy. It was a consciousness most horrible--dead, yet alive.
I struggled to move, but there was nothing that would react. Then very
slowly I could feel the sensation of tingling. It seemed to define my
body; make me conscious of my legs and arms that were prickling as
though with a thousand needles stabbing them. I could feel now that I
was lying on something soft. My eyelids fluttered up so that I had the
swimming vision of narrow metal walls and a low grid ceiling. The room
was faintly luminous with a weird dull radiance.

Then my clearing sight focused on a lens-shaped window. Stars were
out there--glittering points of blue-white light in a firmament solid
black. The stars were in a slow circular procession of movement so that
I knew the room was revolving.

Interplanetary Space. I was in a space-vehicle. I could hear the faint,
throbbing humming mechanisms now, and see the endless procession of
celestial glory outside my window. Numbly, for how long I do not know,
I lay blankly watching it. The space-vehicle obviously had a slow
horizontal axial rotation. The glittering distant worlds swung past.
And then I saw the Earth! The blazing, flame-enveloped ball of Sun
was off to one side, so that it was a great crescent Earth. Much time
indeed had passed. Hours; days--a blank to me. The Earth was dull
red-yellow. The sunlight gleamed on the mountains at the limb of its
crescent; and I could see the mottling of clouds and the configurations
of oceans and continents beneath them.

"Maybe you can move now. Your name is Tom Ralston, isn't it? Any chance
you can speak--you're coming out all right, damned if you're not. I'd
about given you up."

It was a low voice beside me; and suddenly I was aware of a hunched
man's form sitting here on the floor. My gaze swung to see him--a
slim young fellow in ragged Earth garments of tight black and white
striped trousers and white blouse open at the throat. His face was
good-looking; slack-jawed, weak face with pale blue eyes. His stubble
of beard made his weak chin and thin cheeks bluish. He was smiling.

"All right now, Ralston?"

"Yes, I guess so." I could barely mouth it. My tongue was thick; all
my body was a torture now from that prickling. But I could move, and
every moment I could feel my strength coming back to me. "Where am I?"
I mumbled. "What happened? Who are you?" And then I remembered Dora.
"She--Dora Franklin--she was with me. Is she all right?"

"Oh sure. If you could call being on this damned ship anything to be
pleased about. The woman Setta is taking care of her. The damned little
Physical hit her and you both with its shock, but you got much the
worst. Dora's all right, now."

I lay, with my strength coming back, listening in mute wonderment to
the weird things he was telling me. His name was Johnny Blair. A year
ago, in New York City, he had just been married. He and his young wife
had been approached by that same weird man who had accosted Dora and
me. They had yielded to his lure of a honeymoon paradise; had gone with
him. The man's name was Bragg--an escaped Earth criminal, member of a
band of fifty who in a wholesale jailbreak five years ago had gotten
loose, stolen a space-vehicle and left Earth. Roaming in Space, they
had landed on a little planetoid, a member of our Solar System, which
encircles the Sun in an orbit outside the orbit of Earth; between the
Earth and Mars.

"We're almost there now," young Blair was saying. He had lowered his
voice so that now he was furtive, fearing that what he was telling me
might be overheard by someone outside our cubby. "Pretty weird new
world we're headed for, Ralston," he commented grimly. He jerked his
thumb toward the lens-shaped pressure window. "If you're strong enough
to take a look, you'll see it right under us. We're dropping down into
its stratosphere now."

With his arm supporting me, weakly I staggered to the window. Blair
was explaining that our tiny cubby was on the outer rim of the flat,
disc-shaped vehicle. Its rocket-streams gave it a slow horizontal
rotation, and its gravity plates, set now into repulsion, were slowly
dropping it downward.

Through the window I stared down. The little planetoid, some six
hundred miles in diameter but with an immense density since it was
almost solid metal, lay spread close beneath us. A weird world indeed;
a great spread of convex surface of barren, tumbled rocks and mountains
in great serrated tiers. The sunlight gleamed with a dazzling sheen on
the burnished heights. Then we passed into the shadow of night.

       *       *       *       *       *

I gazed, wordless. It was a fearsome, barren waste of blue-white metal
rocks, fused and pitted as though the little world had been born in
a fiery convulsion; a tumbled, strewn land of crags and boulders
with ragged gashes of canyons in which now the shadows were black,
impenetrable. And over it all there was a lurid green-red glow. It
seemed inherent to the air; and it streamed up like a radioactive aura
from the rocks of the ground.

"The whole planetoid is like that?" I murmured. "Surely that's not
habitable?"

Johnny Blair rubbed his bluish stubble of beard. "Well, there's
water--it rains sometimes. Maybe there's soil where things would grow,
but I've never seen any. There's quite a colony of us humans here now.
We've been stealing our food--"

So that explained the raids on the Government Food Depots! A band of
fifty escaped criminals, fugitives from Earth, originally had come
here. Their leader was one Torkine; the pallid fellow Bragg was his
lieutenant. And now, raiding Earth of food and supplies, married
couples were being brought--and young men and young girls, to be
married on the planetoid. A new world.

"We've brought some young people from Mars also," Johnny Blair was
explaining. "Been there three times, and once to Venus. Quite a lot of
humans here now--four hundred maybe."

To colonize an uninhabitable world. I said something like that and
Johnny stared at me mutely. "It was inhabited," he said grimly. He
seemed to shudder. "A world with just one inhabitant. It--it's a
ghastly thing. It's got us all as its prisoners now. The Supreme
One--that's what it calls itself. God, when you see it--"

What weird horrible thing was this? I could only return his stare. A
barren little planetoid, with just one inhabitant. Something not human.

"But," I stammered, "when Bragg accosted us, there was a little
headless thing in an overcoat standing near him. And we saw several of
them coming out of the Food Depots."

Johnny's smile was grim. "We call those the Physicals. They're parts of
the Supreme One--like his arms and legs, only they're detached."

"Part of him? His arms and legs? I don't get you."

"No? Well, my God, you'll see." Johnny's gesture seemed trying to
express his hopelessness at explaining. "You'll see him--the main
central part of him, I mean, that never leaves his house. He's a Being,
not all in one piece, like us humans. His housed main body can't move.
You understand? He's rooted to the ground. The rest of him is detached
and he works it by remote control. There must be thousands of those
little Physicals--some in one shape, some in others. But mostly they're
like the ones you saw."

A new form of life. A Thing, an Individual--the sole occupant of its
world. My mind tried to encompass it. On Earth, every living creature
at least seems to be, as Johnny expressed it, all in one piece. But
why should that be exclusively necessary throughout the Universe? Here,
on this little remote planetoid, was one of God's creations that was
made wholly different.

Johnny's voice went lower. "He--It--the Supreme One--it's got us all
trapped. It's delighted--having something besides parts of itself to
rule. You see? that's why it's been sending its parts--like its arms
and legs--to make Bragg and the others lure young men and girls. To
establish a human world, and the Supreme One will rule it."

I understood it better now. That headless little thing in the overcoat
had been watching Bragg--a moving part of the Supreme One, making Bragg
do its bidding. And now Johnny was explaining that as though it were
a giant electric eel, the headless Physical could emit from its own
body a weird electronic discharge. That was what had shocked me into
catalepsy. And it had thrown a barrage about itself, so that my bullet
had been futile to hit it.

"These Physicals," I was murmuring. "Can they hear you when you speak?
Can they talk?"

He nodded. "Yes. Subsidiary organs that operate for themselves when the
main body is too remote." Again he shrugged hopelessly. "I guess we
humans aren't capable of fully understanding--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He checked himself suddenly. He and I were still standing by the little
bull's-eye window. Behind us I heard a click. A doorslide to our
cubby opened. I sucked in my breath with a gasp. One of the Physicals
stood there. A little square, box-like thing mounted on two jointed
legs, with flexible hinged feet, long and pointed. The light from an
outside corridor was behind it, so that I could at first only see its
outline in silhouette. As it stood, it seemed to click and a third
leg came sliding down to support it like a tripod. Its arms, three on
each side of its box-body, were waving like little tentacles. Ghastly
little living thing. Its box-body was some two feet wide by three feet
long, with perhaps a foot of thickness. The light gleamed on its top
edge; the foot-thick surface there was level, smooth and shining, with
rounded ends gruesomely to suggest a travesty of human shoulders.

And then it spoke--a low, hollow, tonelessly mechanical voice. "You
have recovered? You are the human called Tom Ralston?"

English! Queerly intoned, but correct. Johnny nudged me. "Yes," I said.
"That's who I am."

Its third leg slid up again into its body; and with padding little
steps it came forward. I could see it better now. Was it clothed?
Was it living tissue, or wholly metal? For a moment there seemed no
answers. Then I realized that there was no detachable clothing. A
body of animal tissue, or mineral? Perhaps both. Perhaps neither. A
substance different. But I could see that parts of it were rigid,
and parts of it quivering. Down the front of its square little body
rows of knobs protruded; and as I stared, one of them shifted aside
and a little knife-like finger came out on a tentacle arm and waved
at me. Then I saw what might have been called its face--a mobile,
flexible-looking circular area in the front center of its body. A hole
there seemed to glow as though an eye were in it. A round orifice from
which the voice issued was on one side of it; and on the other, a hole
that could have been an ear. And over them there was a crescent-shaped
little area which was greenly luminous--the little brain in there,
visibly palpitating.

"I told Torkine," the Physical said, "that he might see you when you
recovered. Blair will bring you now." Its feet turned. With little
precision steps it marched out and vanished in the dim corridor.

I stared at Johnny, and now suddenly he gripped me. "We'll have to go,"
he murmured swiftly. "Listen, we'll be landing in an hour or two--this
may be the last chance I have to talk to you alone. I been tryin' to
get away from this accursed thing for six months now. Escape--I want to
get back to Earth."

"And you couldn't?"

"Good God, no. Wait 'til you understand the--the monster better.
It's got all us humans trapped. Helpless. Sometimes it treats us
kindly--it's got its own ideas about building up a world of humans,
for it to rule. But when you make it mad, the wrath of the monster is
horrible!"

His words were making me shudder. "You have a wife," I murmured. "Where
is she?"

"She's dead," he said. His voice went drab. "Eight months ago, by
Earth-time, I guess it was. She--she displeased the Supreme One, and so
it killed her. Four of the Physicals just--just grabbed her arms and
legs and they pulled until she--she came apart!"

His voice trailed away. I could only stand with my hand on his
shoulder, staring mutely at him as I shuddered. Then he was leading
me along the corridor which ran like the spoke of a wheel toward the
center of the disc-shaped vehicle.

"What I was saying," he went on in his swift murmur. "Torkine and those
fifty men of his convict band--I wouldn't trust a damn one of them. The
monster likes Torkine, so he's the boss of us humans. But Torkine is
planning something murderous. I've been sure of that for quite a while.
And this fellow Bragg is married to a girl we got from Mars. Her name's
Setta. She's all right."

His voice sank even lower as he stopped in the corridor and gripped me.
"Listen, I've seen your girl Dora--Setta's been taking care of her. I
hope the Supreme One decides to marry you to her. But I wouldn't count
on it. I've seen Torkine and Bragg both lookin' at her pretty queer.
She's a damn sweet-lookin' girl."

My heart was pounding. "Johnny, look here; you say you want to escape,
get back to Earth?"

"That's what I was tellin' you. Or to Mars--that would be all right.
Setta and I are planning it. Can't tell you now. She loves Bragg, and
wants to get him out of here. Bragg has been punished by the monster."

"Johnny, listen. When we get to the planetoid, I want to be in with
you--Dora and I."

"Yes. That's what I guessed. Suits me fine. But I'm tellin' you--don't
you trust a damn soul!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The weird passions of humans. Here on this little space-vehicle we all
were captives of the Supreme One. And yet, wherever there are humans,
smoldering strife will exist. The criminal Torkine and his fifty
men--what murderous action were they planning? We passed one of them
in the corridor; a big, beetle-browed fellow in trousers and shirt.
He stood with his hands on his hips, staring after us with a grinning
leer. But he moved quickly enough when a little Physical came marching
up with its hurried, jerky little steps and ordered him away.

At the entrance to the small control tower which projected up like the
hub of a wheel from the center of the disc-vehicle, Bragg was standing.

"So they got you and your girl?" he murmured.

"Yes," I agreed.

I stared at the woman who was beside him. Setta, his wife, the girl
from Mars. She was a small, brown-skinned girl of perhaps twenty. An
odd face with slanted eyes, narrow nose and queerly pointed chin. Long
sleek black hair framed her face, fell over her brown, sleek bare
shoulders and crossed her full breasts to make a sort of bodice. From
her waist a fringed brown skirt hung to her bare ankles.

Strange-looking young woman of another world from mine. But as she
smiled at me, revealing even white teeth, I felt her charm, and almost
at once my sense of her strangeness was gone. At least we were both
humans, a man and a woman, with so vast a gulf between us and the
gruesome little Physicals.

"I have tried to be good to your woman Dora," Setta said as I passed
her.

"Yes, thank you," I responded.

The Control Turret was pallid with overhead starlight. Its big circular
glassite windows showed me the spread of the planetoid's barren surface
underneath us. We had dropped down through cloud layers now. The wild
naked wastes of the little world's surface were no more than ten
thousand feet down. Still there seemed nothing but barren metal rocks;
no sign of life human or otherwise.

"So you did not die, Tom Ralston. Welcome to our little colony!"

Torkine's ironic voice greeted me. He was seated at the control table
where the intricate dials, levers and vacuums of the disc's mechanisms
were ranged. He stood up as I entered. And beside him I saw Dora. She
was still clad in her Earth garments, and her long pale-blonde hair
was braided and coiled on her head. I have not spoken of Dora's beauty.
Loving her, my own opinion of it possibly was exaggerated; and yet I
have never known a man, or a woman either, who differed greatly from me
in praising it--a delicate, ethereal beauty.

She gave a little cry as she saw me, half started to her feet, and then
sank back on the bench beside Torkine. Her face was pallid, but she was
trying to smile at me.

"Welcome," Torkine said again. "Come sit here with us, Ralston, and
I'll show you our new world. You see he did not die, little Dora?"

I saw Torkine now as a huge burly giant; six feet four at least. A
swaggering, handsome fellow, this escaped convict. In age he could have
been thirty odd. He was grinning at me ironically as he shoved a metal
chair toward me.

"The Supreme One will be glad to have you," he added. "You and Dora
Franklin. Especially Dora. We need Earth beauty in our motley little
colony of humans. The Supreme One spoke to me of that--there will be
several marriages soon after we arrive tonight. The Great Master is
deciding now which men and which women of our humans shall be mated."

Omnipotence. Torkine's irony was gone now; he spoke casually, as though
stating a casual fact. Humans here, who before the power of the Supreme
One were no longer individuals to have a will and emotions of their
own. Everything to be decided for us.

But I saw the pallid hawk-nosed Bragg staring at Dora with a look that
made my heart pound. And Torkine himself dropped back on the bench and
murmured:

"Do not be surprised little Dora, if the Master decides not to give you
to this fellow Ralston--"

He leered at me, and his arms went around Dora, drawing her to him. She
gave a little cry of terror and repugnance. It was too much for me. I
jumped up.

"Stop that!" I rasped. "You Torkine--take your hands off her!"

He turned his head, grinning at me, but he did not move. I would have
been upon him in another second. Behind me I heard Johnny Blair give a
cry to try and stop me. In the shadows of one of the circular walls,
half a dozen of the little box-like Physicals, all identical, were
ranged motionless in a line. They were muttering now--weird mutterings
that popped from them like tiny explosions. And abruptly acting in
unison, they came pouncing at me!

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ralston, stand still!" Blair shouted. "Your only chance--stand still!"

I checked my advance and tried to get my wits; to master the frenzy
that was upon me. It was a moment of horrible chaos; I knew that my
life or death in that second hung in the balance. With hands at my
sides I stood irresolute as the weird little creatures spread out
and surrounded me. Little creatures? Still my brain would barely
encompass the amazing fact that these were not individual little beings
but merely the detached parts of one great Individual--one almost
Omniscient Mentality. As though they were just arms and legs with a
remote giant central Being to guide them in what they were doing now.

As I stood panting, waiting, with my heart pounding, for an instant it
seemed that I would be seized, with the tentacle arms of the box-like
little things pulling at me, like poor Blair's young wife, with arms
and legs pulled until she came apart....

It was a breathless, horrible moment of suspense. All the humans here
in the pallid turret stood breathlessly silent, tense, as helplessly we
waited to see what the Supreme One would decide to do. By what weird
method of nature were swift communications passing between these little
things and their main Being so distant? Our human mind doubtless will
never yield an answer to that. Yet perhaps it was no different in its
essence from the swift orders which our own brain gives to our distant
hands and feet. Ours is a transmission through nerves; this other a
transmission through the ether. Each of these little parts had its
subsidiary eye, to see these local happenings; a little subsidiary
brain to record them, to amplify them with reasoning and to fling the
result out to the Supreme One for decision.

Thoughts themselves are instant things. I stood with a flood of such
thoughts as the Physicals surged at me. Their little eyes, in the
middle of each box-like body, were balefully glaring. A few of the
tentacles gripped me. The touch was cold, slimy, yet from it I could
feel a current tingling, like a mild electric shock.

Then the gripping fingers in unison relaxed. One of the little hollow
voices muttered:

"Tom Ralston, I will punish you later."

As though suddenly the incident were closed, in unison all the
Physicals turned, and with their hurried little precision steps marched
back to the wall where they lined themselves up, motionless, silent,
with only their eyes alert.

And from the bench where still his arm encircled the shuddering Dora,
the giant Torkine was grinning at me with a leer of triumph.

The huge disc which was the spaceship dropped lower into the dark night
of the weird little planetoid. For a brief time I sat at one of the
control turret windows, staring down over the rim of the disc at the
barren, tumbled surface. We were slowly sailing now hardly a thousand
feet above it. Still there was nothing apparent down there save naked
crags. But I knew we were nearing our destination. In the dim little
corridors which spread out like spokes here from this hub of the disc,
distant sounds of activity were audible. A dozen or more of Torkine's
men were on board, watched and herded by a score of the little
Physicals. This raid on Earth had produced quantities of food which the
humans needed to sustain them on the planetoid. There was alcoholite
also. I could see that many of Torkine's villainous-looking men were
imbibing it. Their faces were flushed; some of them were murmuring to
each other, with leering, appraising looks at Dora.

And this raid had produced a few more Earth captives. Young men
and girls who were confined in the little cubbies along one of the
corridors. Their frightened voices were audible now as the Physicals
herded them with preparations to disembark.

"The planetoid world," Dora abruptly whispered. "Look--there is the
city."

Torkine momentarily had moved away, and Dora had shifted to sit beside
me. Together we gazed down. The ragged mountainous horizon of the
sharply convex surface of the little world seemed only a few miles
away. And as the disc, dropping still lower, sailed forward, a human
settlement came suddenly into view. I had only a brief glimpse of it.
At first it was a group of light-dots. Then the colored glow from
them disclosed little groups of dwellings. The lights came from their
windows, and other glowing tubelights were set on poles in the spaces,
like irregular streets between the houses.

It was a weird, motley little settlement. Small, crude, single story
dwellings, evidently erected from materials and parts of other houses
filched from Earth on previous raids. A hundred little habitations, set
in a group.

       *       *       *       *       *

Torkine was beside Dora and me now. "Very nice, isn't it?" he said with
his ironic smile. "That is for our Earth-people. With nothing here
on this planetoid, we have had to do the best we could by bringing
everything from Earth. And there to the left is the Martian village.
And to the right, our Venus people live."

The two other little house-groups stood a few hundred yards further
away, with the weird night-shadows enveloping them. A score perhaps of
strangely-fashioned habitations in each of them. A few dozen Martians,
living here, captives of this monstrous Thing that ruled here. The
spindly, fragile-looking Martian village was almost wholly dark. The
Venus group was blue with flickering torchlight which disclosed little
mound-shaped houses of wood and stone.

"The nucleus of a new civilization," Torkine was saying. "The Supreme
One is proud of it. Earth, Mars and Venus will be blended here in the
new race we will produce. And the Great Master will rule and guide us.
He chooses our mates. He directs our lives--he even thinks and acts for
us, because, you see, we humans are very inferior."

The irony of Torkine's voice made me turn and stare at him. He was
grinning at me. But in his dark, deep-set eyes there was something else
that smoldered with the glinting reflection of his own thoughts.

"I see," I murmured.

"Well, you don't," he retorted. "But you soon will. There, to one
side--that round thing is where the Supreme One houses himself. See it?"

Figures were visible down in the village now as men and women gathered
in the doorways and in the spaces between the houses. They were all
staring up at our arriving disc. And everywhere I could see the
box-like little Physicals. Some stood like sentries at the street
corners. Others were marching with their little precision steps back
and forth. My gaze followed Torkine's gesture. To one side, partly
between the Earth and the Martian sections of the weird village, a flat
cauldron depression of the rocks seemed to have a big circular cover
over it. It was a bulging dome-like roof perhaps a hundred feet in
diameter.

The house of the Monster. The one thing which was native here.
The dome-like roof, of some material which to me was nameless,
indescribable, glowed with a weird violent sheen. Its circular outer
rim was some ten feet above the ground--ten feet of entrance space. But
the violet sheen down there was like a barrage-wall, with slits in it
like doorways. Groups of Physicals were standing there on guard.

Our space-disc was settling to a level, rocky, open area just beyond
the glow of the village lights. The Physicals here in the turret herded
Dora and me away. Torkine, with one of the weird little shapes on
each side of him, grimly, silently watching him, was at the bank of
controls, landing us.

Dora and I had no chance to see young Johnny Blair again. Nor the
Martian woman, Setta. At one of the rim pressure-exits, three of the
Physicals stood waiting with us. Then we felt the big disc settle with
a bump to the ground. The exit door slid open and our captors pushed us
out.

The new world. Its strangely heavy air choked me a little at first, and
made my head reel. I could feel that the gravity was less than Earth,
but not much so because of the immense density of the planet. A babble
of muffled sound was audible as human voices greeted us. In the weird
darkness of dim tubelights, a fringe of staring captive humans showed
on the rocks nearby. But Physicals like little policemen paced in
front of them, keeping them away.

Along a descending rocky path Dora and I were shoved until in a
moment the violet sheen of the barrage at the house of the Monster
loomed ahead. Then we went through one of the slit openings under the
dome-like roof. And presently we stopped at a luminous waist-high
railing; and in a lurid violet-yellow glow, we stared down at the giant
thing which was spread here before us!

       *       *       *       *       *

The circular area inside here seemed about fifty feet in diameter and
was depressed ten feet below us. A violet-yellow luminescence suffused
it so that for a moment it was a blur. Then gradually it clarified
and we saw the Supreme One! Its flat, intricate body was a quivering,
palpitating, luminous mass of tissue spread in a great fifty foot
circle. A Thing fifty feet in diameter, and perhaps three feet thick.
For a moment I thought that it was lying flat on the rocks. Then I saw
that it was suspended a foot or two in the air with a violet curtain or
radiance connecting it to the solidity of the ground.

A rooted monster! Incapable of locomotion it spread here, with radiance
like roots, through which doubtless it was drawing from the ground its
sustenance, its life. Electric sustenance, of course. Weird life-force,
animating its nerve-ganglia, replenishing its living tissue.
Intricate electronic streams of nourishment which in a human body are
blood-streams. A life-force of indescribable chemistry, drawn through
its electronic roots from the planet itself.

An amazing Being. Glowing, multiple brain-lobes were like a score
of transparent heads with luminous threads of what could have been
nerve tissue connecting them; an intricate network of ganglia in a
tangle everywhere through the palpitating body-tissue. Other organs,
indescribable, unnamable, were crimson and violet glowing blobs. I
could see the streams of nourishment swiftly circulating from one to
the other--huge transparent arteries of fluorescence, threading out
into veins and tiny capillaries. And in the center of the body-mass, a
giant eye on a flexible stem, huge organ of sight with spectral colors
darting like fire within it, was glaring at us.

All that I saw with my first swift awed gaze. Then other details were
apparent. A dozen globes of what could have been transparent muscle
were rhythmically palpitating, like huge hearts pumping the strange
current through this Thing to keep it alive. And then I saw that under
the central giant eye there was the orifice for a voice and another for
hearing.

An awesome rooted monster. The only living thing on its barren little
world until the humans came, a pseudo-solidity of roof and walls;
a radiance which streamed from the monster itself. And now in the
lurid dimness I could see faint streams like the threads of an aura
emanating from the different sections of the monster. Little cables
of vibrations, infinitely long, perhaps as unsubstantial as a human
thought. In the darkness here beside Dora and me, a dozen of the little
Physicals were ranged. Parts of the monster. I saw it now--saw those
evanescent threadlike streams from the circle of quivering tissue--each
thread ending in one of the Physicals. The pathways of transmission for
orders from the central Being to its seemingly detached physical parts.

Thoughts are so swift! I suppose Dora and I stood there gazing for
no more than a minute. The monster for that minute was silent; the
round central eye, as big as my head, gazed with appraisement. I heard
Dora suck in her breath with terror as she mutely stared. Both of us,
clutching at each other. And a weird feeling swept me. It was as though
I was gazing at a living thing of vast immensity. The power of thought
here, immense, vast and unfathomable to me who was just a human. It
gave me a feeling of my own futility, so that in the presence of this
Being I stood cringing. Unutterably helpless; small, and terrified.

And then the Supreme One spoke:

"You have been causing me trouble, Tom Ralston. I should have destroyed
you, there on the spaceship."

It was a soft, measured, toneless voice, issuing perhaps from near the
giant eye. Yet it had a faraway sound as though blended and muffled by
distance. And now I could see that one of the brain-lobes near us had
been stimulated into action greater than the others. The luminous aura
from it had intensified. Beneath its membrane tissue, like a million
luminous little snakes writhing one upon the other, the brain-folds
were in motion. This, then, was the brain-lobe concerned with us now;
the lobe from which the thing had learned English; had learned indeed,
that there were other living things in the Universe besides Itself.

"Speak, human!" the monster said suddenly.

"Yes," I stammered. "Should have--killed me--yes."

"But I have not many humans here. Perhaps I shall kill you. Perhaps I
shall marry you to this human you call Dora. I have not yet decided."

       *       *       *       *       *

I had thought that Dora and I were standing by a railing. But like
the rest of this dwelling it was a barrage barrier. I could see its
outlines quivering in front of me; feel its repellent force so that if
I had taken a step forward it would shove me back.

Beside Dora and me now, Torkine had appeared. He stood gazing down at
Dora. His face, with the lurid glow on it, was grinning. And suddenly
the Supreme One said:

"You, Torkine, you tell me you knew this girl many of your years ago?"

"Yes, Master. Oh, yes." Torkine said ingratiatingly.

Knew Dora years ago? That was news to me.

"I shall think of it," the monster said. "There are several marriages
for me to perform presently in your Earth, and Mars and Venus fashions.
I need more humans here. You, Tom Ralston--have they told you my
purpose?"

"No," I said.

"We shall have a human world here for me to rule. A little world of
blended Mars and Venus and Earth. And then we will spread. The parts
of Me will go abroad to this great planet and that one, conquering!
Conquering everything, until at last I shall master the entire
Universe!"

Torkine was chuckling. I stood gripping Dora and my thoughts swung to
young Johnny Blair. He had some plan with the woman Setta to escape
from here. To me now it seemed a thing utterly hopeless.

And suddenly I shuddered, with a new stab of terror. Could this
monstrous Being read our human thoughts? Apparently not, for its voice
said sharply:

"For why do you chuckle, Torkine?"

"I was thinking of that fellow Bragg," Torkine responded, "who did his
work so badly on this last voyage to Earth. We brought only fifteen
more humans, Master."

"I am bringing Bragg here to see me and talk to him more closely," the
monster said. "You, Tom Ralston, and you, Dora Franklin--that is all I
wish of you now. You will learn my decision soon."

Threadlike streams from one of the brain-lobes of the monster were
swaying past me; and as I turned, I saw a dozen little Physicals
attached to the faintly luminous threads--Physicals who came marching
in with Bragg among them--Bragg, more pallid than ever with his
hawk-face contorted by terror. Torkine stood aside, still chuckling.
Then Physicals were surrounding Dora and me, herding us away. We
stumbled back through the luminous darkness; along a little path.
It was no more than a hundred feet until the outlines of a small
house--loomed before us. A voice from one of the Physicals said:

"You go inside and wait for my decision." A miniature of the monster's
central voice. I realized now that all the Physicals spoke with the
same voice, in miniature.

"All right," I said. "You'll have no trouble with us, Master."

The dim room was crudely furnished with Earth furniture. I sat the
trembling Dora on a couch; dropped beside her with my arm around her.

"Weird, Dora." I whispered it. "But don't be too frightened. We'll find
a way out of this."

In the shadows two figures suddenly were moving! Then I saw that they
were the Martian woman, Setta, and young Johnny Blair. They came
forward.

"The Physicals all went outside?" Johnny murmured.

"Yes," I agreed. "Good Lord, that weird monster--can it hear us, if we
whisper like this?"

"No. Safe enough, in here now."

       *       *       *       *       *

The room had the door through which we had entered, and two windows.
Both were open. In the glowing dimness outside we could see other
Physicals ranged in a line, watching us.

"The house is surrounded," Johnny whispered. "No way of getting
out--any break would be instant death. But a little later, when they're
getting ready for the marriages there's just a desperate chance.
There's generally a hundred Physicals guarding the spaceship, but not
so many tonight, if they are needed other places. Did he take Bragg in
there?"

"Yes," I agreed. "Bragg looked pretty frightened. Good Lord, if that
damned monster ever gets really angry--"

The words brought a terrified cry from Setta. "If only Bragg will be
brought here to us," she murmured. "I think I can get us outside to
watch the marriages. The Master has never been angry at me. And once we
are outside with a chance to run for the ship--"

Futile, desperate plans. But they were all we could devise. We huddled
now on the sofa, waiting for Bragg. All of us were unarmed. Even if we
had been armed, of what use would a knife or a bullet-weapon be against
this multiple monster? A thing impregnable to human attack....

Then I was questioning Dora about that strange thing the Supreme One
had said--that Torkine had known her many years ago.

"After my father and mother died," Dora was telling me now, "before I
met you, Tom, I lived in that home with my Uncle. Mrs. Holten was our
housekeeper."

Dora had always seemed reticent about her young girlhood; I had known
her only about a year. When she was about twelve, her uncle had been
working to give the secret of spaceflight to the world. It was he who
had, in secret, constructed the space-disc. Dora had known about it
only vaguely; and had been warned to keep secret what little she knew.
Torkine had been her uncle's assistant; and him, as a little girl, she
had hated and feared.

"He--he tried to kiss me one day," she was telling us now. "You,
Tom--you understand? It terrified me so that I screamed, and then my
uncle came and I told him."

Torkine had been discharged by her uncle; and later her uncle had heard
that he was in prison. Then there was the jailbreak, and shortly after
that her uncle's experimental ship, and himself also, had vanished.

"He stole the ship, and killed your uncle?" I murmured.

"Yes. He told me that, while we were coming here."

       *       *       *       *       *

I could understand so much more of this weird thing now! It was no
chance that had directed Bragg to Dora and me as we sat listening to
the concert. Torkine had sent him to lure us to some spot where we
could be seized without creating an alarm. And it wasn't chance which
enabled us to be attacked in Dora's home. Torkine knew where her home
was located.

"Was it Bragg, or Torkine himself who came with the Physicals and
caught us?" I demanded.

"Torkine," she said. "He told me they killed Mrs. Holten just before we
arrived."

My mind leaped back.... My little laboratory there in which I had just
completed the small ray-weapon. The paralyzing ray. In our frightened
haste when we had arrived and found Mrs. Holten gone, I had glanced
into the laboratory, but had not thought of my ray-model. Had Torkine
forced Mrs. Holten to tell her what work was being done there? She knew
about the weapon. Had Torkine taken it?

The little brown-skinned, brown-clad Martian girl, Setta, was at one
of the windows now, standing there with Johnny; and they motioned us
silently to come. The guarding Physicals on this side of the house had
drawn back a little, but still we could see them, a line of gruesome
motionless shapes. Their eyes glowed like points of fire in the
darkness. Behind them there was a dark area of open rocks between the
house of the monster and the Earth Village. Humans were moving about,
always with little groups of Physicals guarding them.

The bustle of activity out there was growing. For half an hour past
we had been aware of the sound of men's voices; the voices of girls,
sometimes laughing, sometimes with little cries of terror.

"Look," Johnny murmured. "The dais for the wedding couples. They're
lighting it."

Earth tubelights, with batteries attached, were glowing now, mounted on
the rocks. Their colored radiance illumined a small ledge of rock like
a little natural dais which faced the glowing house of the monster.
And now we saw a group of Earthmen gathered near the dais. Torkine's
original band of criminals. Some had jugs in their hands from which
occasionally they drank. Alcoholite, I had no doubt. There were some
twenty of them, with others occasionally joining them. Their muttering
laughter floated to us.

Johnny Blair bent toward me. "Something going on among those
fellows--look at that."

A group of Earth-girls were passing the dais, herded toward its
entrance steps by a line of Physicals. Some of the roistering men
reached for the girls as they went by. The Physicals with popping anger
checked them. The half-drunken men desisted. Some jibed at the girls
with coarse comment; but others muttered to themselves--low, defiant
curses. I felt myself shuddering. There was smoldering revolt out
there. Torkine's men, inflamed now by the alcoholite so that what for
a long time they and their leader might have been planning, they now
forgot to disguise. It was as though here were a little spark trembling
above a pit of horrible explosive--a spark which at any moment might
hurl us all to death.

"They've never been like this before," Johnny muttered anxiously. "By
Heaven, if the Physicals turn on them, and on us--"

"If only Bragg would come," Setta murmured.

A scream out in the night made her words die in her throat. A man's
scream of agony, blood-curdling with its ghastly shrillness. And Setta,
here in the dim room with us, echoed it.

"Bragg!"

It sounded again, mingled now with the hissing, popping little
voices of the Physicals. Gruesome, ghastly tragedy being enacted now
within the House of the Supreme One! Bragg's screams were horrible,
but brief. All in a moment they were dying into terrible agonized
moans--Bragg's tortured death in the grip of the angered multiple
monster.

And suddenly the frenzied little Setta was rushing from us to the
room-door.

"No!" Johnny shouted. "Come back!"

We jumped for her but she eluded us; rushed out. And then we saw her
outside for just a brief, horrible glimpse. A group of Physicals rushed
at her; seized her, but she fought them. And then suddenly they were
pulling at her. Little box-like parts of the great monster with an
inhuman, incredible strength ... pulling at her arms and her legs ...
like Johnny Blair's young wife....

I seized Dora, pressed her head against my side. "Don't look, Dora.
Dear God!"

I could not look myself after a moment.

"I am ready for you now, Dora Franklin." Physicals were here in the
room with us, advancing upon Dora! The voice of one of them crisply
added:

"Come with me, Dora Franklin."

Even with what I had seen and heard outside, I tensed to resist. But I
came to my senses as Johnny tremblingly seized me, and Dora screamed:

"No! No, Tom!"

Then the Physicals had taken her from me. Three or four of them
remained here in the room with Johnny and me; the others herded Dora
away. Then from the window we saw her as they led her to the dais.
Torkine's men called at her with coarse, drunken comment as she went
past them.

And now the House of the Monster was opening. The radiant barrage which
had formed its walls and roof slowly dissolved so that the huge, weird
Being was exposed. Giant glowing thing spread there on the rocks. Its
big central eye appraisingly roved the weird night-scene. And then its
hollow, toneless, central voice was intoning names. The men and girls
whom now it was to marry.

"... and Karl Torkine to Dora Franklin, both of Earth. And Sela Sirran,
Mars, to Irene Jarrod, of Earth."

Slaves, matched and mated by the decisions of the Great Master.

Then I saw the big figure of Torkine. The colored tubelight gleamed on
his leering face as with his arm around the trembling Dora he led her
up onto the marriage dais and faced the glowing spread of the Supreme
One.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a fantastic, weird ceremony. The varicolored tubelights gleamed
down upon the couples who stood ranged along the front edge of the
dais. Men and women of three great planets, facing the gruesome
multiple monster which here on its own little world was Omnipotent.
Its toneless voice was droning now with the ritual it had devised; and
at intervals, trained by the Physicals, the couples on the dais bowed,
gestured and then knelt with foreheads to the ground in supplication
and homage to the Supreme One. Little grey-skinned Venus girls in their
gaudy robes; brown-skinned, black-haired young women of Mars; the
Earth-girls and young men.

But I had eyes only for Dora, as she knelt with the big Torkine beside
her. The light gleamed on her long, pale-blonde hair which fell in
great gleaming ripples over her shoulders. Then she and Torkine and the
others stood up; and I saw her terrified face.

At the window Johnny and I stood breathless. Watching us, Physicals
were ranged across the dim room behind us. I had no thought of them.
Helpless, utterly despairing now, I stood gazing out at the weird,
eerie night-scene. The group of Torkine's men still gathered at the
back of the dais. Their muttering voices mingled with the drone of the
Supreme One. Abruptly my heart leaped. One or two of the drunken men
had started to climb to the dais. And one suddenly called:

"Why wait, Torkine? Why--"

Like a spark in gunpowder. The Supreme One's voice droned on; but one
of the Physicals jumped and jerked the man from the dais. It made a
commotion off there. Two others of Torkine's men reached and plucked
at the flowing robe of a Venus girl. The man being married to her
turned with an oath, jumped and dealt a blow with his fist. There was a
scuffle, and the Venus man was pulled down from the dais.

Suddenly there was a milling, spreading chaos. In a fringe at the edge
of the light-sheen the spread of rocks was filled with a watching,
motley crowd of humans from the three little villages. I saw the crowd
wavering; the front ranks pressing backward and those behind shoving
forward, trying to see better.

Like fire in prairie grass the milling movement widened. Human voices
shouting in terror, and in drunken anger. Darting little Physicals,
with popping, commanding voices. Then one of the Physicals emitted a
flash. A man screamed and dropped.

"Tom--Oh, look at Torkine!" I was aware that Johnny was gripping me. Up
on the dais in the midst of the commotion the big figure of Torkine was
standing motionless. His left arm was around Dora who in terror sagged
against him. The light revealed clearly his pale, handsome face, and I
saw again that leering, triumphant smile. And now his right hand was
fumbling under his flaring, gaudy jacket.

Perhaps the monster itself in that instant was startled at the
magnitude of this human commotion. The droning central voice abruptly
ceased. In the room behind me I was aware that the Physicals had
darted back through the doorway and gone outside. And on the dais
the leering, triumphant Torkine suddenly brought his right hand from
under his jacket. He was leveling a weapon! My ray-gun! My paralyzing
vibration-projector!

This, then, was what Torkine had been planning! This was what had
inspired drunken boldness among his men! Torkine was leveling it now at
the glowing, quivering spread of the Supreme One!

In that tense, breathless second I was aware that Johnny and I were
leaning out over the sill of the window, numbly staring. And then
Torkine fired my vibration-gun! Its hissing, infra-red bolt spat down
into the palpitating spread of the great rooted, multiple monster!
There was a split-second when it seemed to me as though all the world
hung breathless, pregnant with expectancy of horror.

       *       *       *       *       *

And the horror came, with a rushing, spreading tumult. Down in the
glowing mass of the great circular, flat body there was a little puff
of light-flash where the ray vibrations struck. A blow at one of its
hearts? It seemed that one of the blobs of heart-muscle was wildly
beating, expanding and lunging. And the central eye was flashing
crimson and seeming to split with electric flame.

And now in a flash almost simultaneous with the first shot, its wrath
was transmitted to its remote, detached parts. Over all the weird
chaotic scene of milling humans, the little Physicals sprang into
action. A thousand of them as this multiple-membered monster ran amok.

I felt Johnny pulling at me. "Got to get out of here, Tom. It's our
last chance!"

"Johnny," I gasped, gripping him. "Got to keep together. Try and get to
Dora!"

"Yes; keep away from the Physicals. Good God, Tom!"

Up on the dais Torkine had fired his last futile little bolt, and now
he had flung my projector away. He was still holding Dora. Amazement,
futility, then terror was on his face as he gazed at the writhing,
bellowing monster and then at the wild scene of chaos out on the
rocks--the crowd of milling, panic-stricken humans with the little
Physicals darting among them. Popping, wrathful, miniature duplicated
voices of the Supreme One. Violet-yellow flashes were hissing from the
Physicals. The running, milling, screaming humans were falling.

Johnny and I were running, trying to get to the dais. Then we saw that
Torkine had lifted Dora in his arms; had leaped down and was running
with her over the dark spread of rocks. The lights over the dais
abruptly now were extinguished. The dimness of the night sprang around
us, hideous with human screams of agony and terror; ghastly with the
glares of the little popping bolts and the red-yellow, wrathful glare
of the monster.

Where had Torkine gone? We could not see him. We darted sidewise as a
group of running men and women with Physicals chasing them swept past.
And then again we saw Torkine. He was still carrying Dora, leaping over
the rocks, zig-zagging, trying seemingly to reach the space-disc. The
dark outlines of it were apparent no more than a hundred feet away.

"No Physicals there!" Johnny gasped.

We slanted our running leaps to head off Torkine. And suddenly he saw
us and jumped to a little rocky butte where he stood leering down at
us with his arm holding Dora as she sagged against him. A knife was in
his hand now. The red-yellow chaos off to our left glistened on its
naked blade. For a second I thought that he would plunge it into Dora's
breast.

Then suddenly behind him the little box-bodies of Physicals had
appeared. Tentacle arms reached for him so that he dropped Dora. For
a second she staggered, slumped and then fell over the little brink.
Johnny and I scramblingly caught her; I snatched her in my arms and
ran, with Johnny beside me. We reached the dark, space-disc doorway,
and I turned to look back. Torkine was wildly slashing at a tentacle
arm of a Physical that gripped him. Weird tissue-flesh of the damnable,
gruesome thing. The steel knife-blade slid harmlessly on it; and then
as he wildly stabbed at a box-like chest, the knife-blade broke. He
screamed with a last agonized, throat-splitting cry as the plucking
little things tumbled him from the rock and engulfed him....

"Tom, there they come! Hurry! Get inside--" Johnny gasped.

We slide the doorslide as a plunging wave of Physicals came and hurled
themselves against it....

Then in a moment the big disc was slowly rising. From a bullseye window
of the central turret we could see the raging little things as they
dropped from the rim of the disc.

The ground slid slowly away beneath us. The sounds were shut off
from us now. Mute, ghastly scene. We had only a brief glimpse of the
glowing, wrathful monster. It palpitated, quivered in the midst of
the carnage. Monster of the planet. Omnipotent ruler here. There were
no humans running now. No human bodies were on the rocks. Nothing but
crimsoned, noisome fragments with little shapes fighting over them.

The terrible scene in a moment dropped away, blurred and was gone so
that there was just starlight here in the turret. The myriad stars of
Interplanetary Space. And at the dark, rocky horizon of the planetoid
the Earth was just rising, a great mellow crescent, beckoning us.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Monster of the Asteroid, by Ray Cummings

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MONSTER OF THE ASTEROID ***

***** This file should be named 62040.txt or 62040.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/0/4/62040/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
