
“Where are we going?” Harry asked, as Dumbledore 
joined him at the front of the desk. 

“This time,” said Dumbledore, “we are going to enter 
my memory. I think you will find it both rich in detail 
and satisfyingly accurate. After you, Harry ...” 

Harry bent over the Pensieve; his face broke the cool 
surface of the memory and then he was falling 
through darkness again. ... Seconds later, his feet hit 
firm ground; he opened his eyes and found that he 
and Dumbledore were standing in a bustling, old- 
fashioned London street. 

“There I am,” said Dumbledore brightly, pointing 
ahead of them to a tall figure crossing the road in 
front of a horse-drawn milk cart. 

This younger Albus Dumbledore ’s long hair and beard 
were auburn. Having reached their side of the street, 
he strode off along the pavement, drawing many 
curious glances due to the flamboyantly cut suit of 
plum velvet that he was wearing. 

“Nice suit, sir,” said Harry, before he could stop 
himself, but Dumbledore merely chuckled as they 
followed his younger self a short distance, finally 
passing through a set of iron gates into a bare 
courtyard that fronted a rather grim, square building 
Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




surrounded by high railings. He mounted the few 
steps leading to the front door and knocked once. 
After a moment or two, the door was opened by a 
scruffy girl wearing an apron. 

“Good afternoon. I have an appointment with a Mrs. 
Cole, who, I believe, is the matron here?” 

“Oh,” said the bewildered-looking girl, taking in 
Dumbledore ’s eccentric appearance. “Um ... just a 
mo’ ... MRS. COLE!” she bellowed over her shoulder. 

Harry heard a distant voice shouting something in 
response. The girl turned back to Dumbledore. “Come 
in, she’s on ’er way.” 

Dumbledore stepped into a hallway tiled in black and 
white; the whole place was shabby but spotlessly 
clean. Harry and the older Dumbledore followed. 
Before the front door had closed behind them, a 
skinny, harassed-looking woman came scurrying 
toward them. She had a sharp-featured face that 
appeared more anxious than unkind, and she was 
talking over her shoulder to another aproned helper 
as she walked toward Dumbledore. 

"... and take the iodine upstairs to Martha, Billy 
Stubbs has been picking his scabs and Eric Whalley’s 
oozing all over his sheets — chicken pox on top of 
everything else,” she said to nobody in particular, and 
then her eyes fell upon Dumbledore and she stopped 
dead in her tracks, looking as astonished as if a 
giraffe had just crossed her threshold. 

“Good afternoon,” said Dumbledore, holding out his 
hand. 

Mrs. Cole simply gaped. 



Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“My name is Albus Dumbledore. I sent you a letter 
requesting an appointment and you very kindly 
invited me here today.” 

Mrs. Cole blinked. Apparently deciding that 
Dumbledore was not a hallucination, she said feebly, 
“Oh yes. Well — well then — you’d better come into 
my room. Yes.” 

She led Dumbledore into a small room that seemed 
part sitting room, part office. It was as shabby as the 
hallway and the furniture was old and mismatched. 
She invited Dumbledore to sit on a rickety chair and 
seated herself behind a cluttered desk, eyeing him 
nervously. 

“I am here, as I told you in my letter, to discuss Tom 
Riddle and arrangements for his future,” said 
Dumbledore. 

“Are you family?” asked Mrs. Cole. 

“No, I am a teacher,” said Dumbledore. “I have come 
to offer Tom a place at my school.” 

“What school’s this, then?” 

“It is called Hogwarts,” said Dumbledore. 

“And how come you’re interested in Tom?” 

“We believe he has qualities we are looking for.” 

“You mean he’s won a scholarship? How can he have 
done? He’s never been entered for one.” 

“Well, his name has been down for our school since 
birth — ” 



Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Who registered him? His parents?” 



There was no doubt that Mrs. Cole was an 
inconveniently sharp woman. Apparently Dumbledore 
thought so too, for Harry now saw him slip his wand 
out of the pocket of his velvet suit, at the same time 
picking up a piece of perfectly blank paper from Mrs. 
Cole’s desktop. 

“Here,” said Dumbledore, waving his wand once as he 
passed her the piece of paper, “I think this will make 
everything clear.” 

Mrs. Cole’s eyes slid out of focus and back again as 
she gazed intently at the blank paper for a moment. 

“That seems perfectly in order,” she said placidly, 
handing it back. Then her eyes fell upon a bottle of 
gin and two glasses that had certainly not been 
present a few seconds before. 

“Er — may I offer you a glass of gin?” she said in an 
extra-refined voice. 

“Thank you very much,” said Dumbledore, beaming. 

It soon became clear that Mrs. Cole was no novice 
when it came to gin drinking. Pouring both of them a 
generous measure, she drained her own glass in one 
gulp. Smacking her lips frankly, she smiled at 
Dumbledore for the first time, and he didn’t hesitate 
to press his advantage. 

“I was wondering whether you could tell me anything 
of Tom Riddle’s history? I think he was born here in 
the orphanage?” 

“That’s right,” said Mrs. Cole, helping herself to more 
gin. “I remember it clear as anything, because I’d just 

Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




started here myself. New Year’s Eve and bitter cold, 
snowing, you know. Nasty night. And this girl, not 
much older than I was myself at the time, came 
staggering up the front steps. Well, she wasn’t the 
first. We took her in, and she had the baby within the 
hour. And she was dead in another hour.” 

Mrs. Cole nodded impressively and took another 
generous gulp of gin. 

“Did she say anything before she died?” asked 
Dumbledore. “Anything about the boy’s father, for 
instance?” 

“Now, as it happens, she did,” said Mrs. Cole, who 
seemed to be rather enjoying herself now, with the gin 
in her hand and an eager audience for her story. “I 
remember she said to me, ‘I hope he looks like his 
papa,’ and I won’t lie, she was right to hope it, 
because she was no beauty — and then she told me 
he was to be named Tom, for his father, and Marvolo, 
for her father — yes, I know, funny name, isn’t it? We 
wondered whether she came from a circus — and she 
said the boy’s surname was to be Riddle. And she 
died soon after that without another word. 

“Well, we named him just as she’d said, it seemed so 
important to the poor girl, but no Tom nor Marvolo 
nor any kind of Riddle ever came looking for him, nor 
any family at all, so he stayed in the orphanage and 
he’s been here ever since.” 

Mrs. Cole helped herself, almost absentmindedly, to 
another healthy measure of gin. Two pink spots had 
appeared high on her cheekbones. Then she said, 
“He’s a funny boy.” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “I thought he might be.” 



Page | 298 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“He was a funny baby too. He hardly ever cried, you 
know. And then, when he got a little older, he was . . . 
odd.” 



“Odd in what way?” asked Dumbledore gently. 

“Well, he — ” 

But Mrs. Cole pulled up short, and there was nothing 
blurry or vague about the inquisitorial glance she 
shot Dumbledore over her gin glass. 

“He’s definitely got a place at your school, you say?” 

“Definitely,” said Dumbledore. 

“And nothing I say can change that?” 

“Nothing,” said Dumbledore. 

“You’ll be taking him away, whatever?” 

“Whatever,” repeated Dumbledore gravely. 

She squinted at him as though deciding whether or 
not to trust him. Apparently she decided she could, 
because she said in a sudden rush, “He scares the 
other children.” 

“You mean he is a bully?” asked Dumbledore. 

“I think he must be,” said Mrs. Cole, frowning 
slightly, “but it’s very hard to catch him at it. There 
have been incidents. ... Nasty things ...” 

Dumbledore did not press her, though Harry could 
tell that he was interested. She took yet another gulp 
of gin and her rosy cheeks grew rosier still. 

Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Billy Stubbs’s rabbit ... well, Tom said he didn’t do it 
and I don’t see how he could have done, but even so, 
it didn’t hang itself from the rafters, did it?” 

“I shouldn’t think so, no,” said Dumbledore quietly. 

“But I’m jiggered if I know how he got up there to do 
it. All I know is he and Billy had argued the day 
before. And then” — Mrs. Cole took another swig of 
gin, slopping a little over her chin this time — “on the 
summer outing — we take them out, you know, once 
a year, to the countryside or to the seaside — well, 
Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop were never quite 
right afterwards, and all we ever got out of them was 
that they’d gone into a cave with Tom Riddle. He 
swore they’d just gone exploring, but something 
happened in there, I’m sure of it. And, well, there 
have been a lot of things, funny things. ...” 

She looked around at Dumbledore again, and though 
her cheeks were flushed, her gaze was steady. “I don’t 
think many people will be sorry to see the back of 
him.” 

“You understand, I’m sure, that we will not be 
keeping him permanently?” said Dumbledore. “He will 
have to return here, at the very least, every summer.” 

“Oh, well, that’s better than a whack on the nose with 
a rusty poker,” said Mrs. Cole with a slight hiccup. 

She got to her feet, and Harry was impressed to see 
that she was quite steady, even though two-thirds of 
the gin was now gone. “I suppose you’d like to see 
him?” 

“Very much,” said Dumbledore, rising too. 

She led him out of her office and up the stone stairs, 
calling out instructions and admonitions to helpers 

Page | 300 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




and children as she passed. The orphans, Harry saw, 
were all wearing the same kind of grayish tunic. They 
looked reasonably well-cared for, but there was no 
denying that this was a grim place in which to grow 
up. 

“Here we are,” said Mrs. Cole, as they turned off the 
second landing and stopped outside the first door in a 
long corridor. She knocked twice and entered. 

“Tom? You’ve got a visitor. This is Mr. Dumberton — 
sorry, Dunderbore. He’s come to tell you — well, I’ll 
let him do it.” 

Harry and the two Dumbledores entered the room, 
and Mrs. Cole closed the door on them. It was a small 
bare room with nothing in it except an old wardrobe, 
a wooden chair, and an iron bedstead. A boy was 
sitting on top of the gray blankets, his legs stretched 
out in front of him, holding a book. 

There was no trace of the Gaunts in Tom Riddle’s 
face. Merope had got her dying wish: He was his 
handsome father in miniature, tall for eleven years 
old, dark-haired, and pale. His eyes narrowed slightly 
as he took in Dumbledore’s eccentric appearance. 
There was a moment’s silence. 

“How do you do, Tom?” said Dumbledore, walking 
forward and holding out his hand. 

The boy hesitated, then took it, and they shook 
hands. Dumbledore drew up the hard wooden chair 
beside Riddle, so that the pair of them looked rather 
like a hospital patient and visitor. 

“I am Professor Dumbledore.” 



Page | 301 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“ ‘Professor?” repeated Riddle. He looked wary. “Is 
that like ‘doctor? What are you here for? Did she get 
you in to have a look at me?” 

He was pointing at the door through which Mrs. Cole 
had just left. 

“No, no,” said Dumbledore, smiling. 

“I don’t believe you,” said Riddle. “She wants me 
looked at, doesn’t she? Tell the truth!” 

He spoke the last three words with a ringing force 
that was almost shocking. It was a command, and it 
sounded as though he had given it many times 
before. His eyes had widened and he was glaring at 
Dumbledore, who made no response except to 
continue smiling pleasantly. After a few seconds 
Riddle stopped glaring, though he looked, if anything, 
warier still. 

“Who are you?” 

“I have told you. My name is Professor Dumbledore 
and I work at a school called Hogwarts. I have come 
to offer you a place at my school — your new school, 
if you would like to come.” 

Riddle’s reaction to this was most surprising. He leapt 
from the bed and backed away from Dumbledore, 
looking furious. 

“You can’t kid me! The asylum, that’s where you’re 
from, isn’t it? ‘Professor,’ yes, of course — well, I’m 
not going, see? That old cat’s the one who should be 
in the asylum. I never did anything to little Amy 
Benson or Dennis Bishop, and you can ask them, 
they’ll tell you!” 



Page | 302 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I am not from the asylum,” said Dumbledore 
patiently. “I am a teacher and, if you will sit down 
calmly, I shall tell you about Hogwarts. Of course, if 
you would rather not come to the school, nobody will 
force you — ” 

“I’d like to see them try,” sneered Riddle. 

“Hogwarts,” Dumbledore went on, as though he had 
not heard Riddle’s last words, “is a school for people 
with special abilities — ” 

“I’m not mad!” 

“I know that you are not mad. Hogwarts is not a 
school for mad people. It is a school of magic.” 

There was silence. Riddle had frozen, his face 
expressionless, but his eyes were flickering back and 
forth between each of Dumbledore’s, as though trying 
to catch one of them lying. 

“Magic?” he repeated in a whisper. 

“That’s right,” said Dumbledore. 

“It’s ... it’s magic, what I can do?” 

“What is it that you can do?” 

“All sorts,” breathed Riddle. A flush of excitement was 
rising up his neck into his hollow cheeks; he looked 
fevered. “I can make things move without touching 
them. I can make animals do what I want them to do, 
without training them. I can make bad things happen 
to people who annoy me. I can make them hurt if I 
want to.” 



Page | 303 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




His legs were trembling. He stumbled forward and sat 
down on the bed again, staring at his hands, his head 
bowed as though in prayer. 

“I knew I was different,” he whispered to his own 
quivering fingers. “I knew I was special. Always, I 
knew there was something.” 

“Well, you were quite right,” said Dumbledore, who 
was no longer smiling, but watching Riddle intently. 
“You are a wizard.” 

Riddle lifted his head. His face was transfigured: 

There was a wild happiness upon it, yet for some 
reason it did not make him better looking; on the 
contrary, his finely carved features seemed somehow 
rougher, his expression almost bestial. 

“Are you a wizard too?” 

“Yes, I am.” 

“Prove it,” said Riddle at once, in the same 
commanding tone he had used when he had said, 

“Tell the truth.” 

Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. “If, as I take it, you 
are accepting your place at Hogwarts — ” 

“Of course I am!” 

“Then you will address me as ‘Professor’ or ‘sir.’ ” 

Riddle’s expression hardened for the most fleeting 
moment before he said, in an unrecognizably polite 
voice, “I’m sorry, sir. I meant — please, Professor, 
could you show me — ?” 



Page | 304 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry was sure that Dumbledore was going to refuse, 
that he would tell Riddle there would be plenty of time 
for practical demonstrations at Hogwarts, that they 
were currently in a building full of Muggles and must 
therefore be cautious. To his great surprise, however, 
Dumbledore drew his wand from an inside pocket of 
his suit jacket, pointed it at the shabby wardrobe in 
the corner, and gave the wand a casual flick. 

The wardrobe burst into flames. 

Riddle jumped to his feet; Harry could hardly blame 
him for howling in shock and rage; all his worldly 
possessions must be in there. But even as Riddle 
rounded on Dumbledore, the flames vanished, leaving 
the wardrobe completely undamaged. 

Riddle stared from the wardrobe to Dumbledore; then, 
his expression greedy, he pointed at the wand. 

“Where can I get one of them?” 

“All in good time,” said Dumbledore. “I think there is 
something trying to get out of your wardrobe.” 

And sure enough, a faint rattling could be heard from 
inside it. For the first time, Riddle looked frightened. 

“Open the door,” said Dumbledore. 

Riddle hesitated, then crossed the room and threw 
open the wardrobe door. On the topmost shelf, above 
a rail of threadbare clothes, a small cardboard box 
was shaking and rattling as though there were several 
frantic mice trapped inside it. 

“Take it out,” said Dumbledore. 

Riddle took down the quaking box. He looked 
unnerved. 

Page | 305 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Is there anything in that box that you ought not to 
have?” asked Dumbledore. 

Riddle threw Dumbledore a long, clear, calculating 
look. “Yes, I suppose so, sir,” he said finally, in an 
expressionless voice. 

“Open it,” said Dumbledore. 

Riddle took off the lid and tipped the contents onto 
his bed without looking at them. Harry, who had 
expected something much more exciting, saw a mess 
of small, everyday objects: a yo-yo, a silver thimble, 
and a tarnished mouth organ among them. Once free 
of the box, they stopped quivering and lay quite still 
upon the thin blankets. 

“You will return them to their owners with your 
apologies,” said Dumbledore calmly, putting his wand 
back into his jacket. “I shall know whether it has 
been done. And be warned: Thieving is not tolerated 
at Hogwarts.” 

Riddle did not look remotely abashed; he was still 
staring coldly and appraisingly at Dumbledore. At last 
he said in a colorless voice, “Yes, sir.” 

“At Hogwarts,” Dumbledore went on, “we teach you 
not only to use magic, but to control it. You have — 
inadvertently, I am sure — been using your powers in 
a way that is neither taught nor tolerated at our 
school. You are not the first, nor will you be the last, 
to allow your magic to run away with you. But you 
should know that Hogwarts can expel students, and 
the Ministry of Magic — yes, there is a Ministry — will 
punish lawbreakers still more severely. All new 
wizards must accept that, in entering our world, they 
abide by our laws.” 



Page | 306 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, sir,” said Riddle again. 



It was impossible to tell what he was thinking; his 
face remained quite blank as he put the little cache of 
stolen objects back into the cardboard box. When he 
had finished, he turned to Dumbledore and said 
baldly, “I haven’t got any money.” 

“That is easily remedied,” said Dumbledore, drawing a 
leather money-pouch from his pocket. “There is a 
fund at Hogwarts for those who require assistance to 
buy books and robes. You might have to buy some of 
your spellbooks and so on secondhand, but — ” 

“Where do you buy spellbooks?” interrupted Riddle, 
who had taken the heavy money bag without 
thanking Dumbledore, and was now examining a fat 
gold Galleon. 

“In Diagon Alley,” said Dumbledore. “I have your list 
of books and school equipment with me. I can help 
you find everything — ” 

“You’re coming with me?” asked Riddle, looking up. 
“Certainly, if you — ” 

“I don’t need you,” said Riddle. “I’m used to doing 
things for myself, I go round London on my own all 
the time. How do you get to this Diagon Alley — sir?” 
he added, catching Dumbledore ’s eye. 

Harry thought that Dumbledore would insist upon 
accompanying Riddle, but once again he was 
surprised. Dumbledore handed Riddle the envelope 
containing his list of equipment, and after telling 
Riddle exactly how to get to the Leaky Cauldron from 
the orphanage, he said, “You will be able to see it, 
although Muggles around you — non-magical people, 
Page | 307 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




that is — will not. Ask for Tom the barman — easy 
enough to remember, as he shares your name — ” 

Riddle gave an irritable twitch, as though trying to 
displace an irksome fly. 

“You dislike the name Tom’?” 

“There are a lot of Toms,” muttered Riddle. Then, as 
though he could not suppress the question, as 
though it burst from him in spite of himself, he 
asked, “Was my father a wizard? He was called Tom 
Riddle too, they’ve told me.” 

“I’m afraid I don’t know,” said Dumbledore, his voice 
gentle. 

“My mother can’t have been magic, or she wouldn’t 
have died,” said Riddle, more to himself than 
Dumbledore. “It must’ve been him. So — when I’ve got 
all my stuff — when do I come to this Hogwarts?” 

“All the details are on the second piece of parchment 
in your envelope,” said Dumbledore. “You will leave 
from King’s Cross Station on the first of September. 
There is a train ticket in there too.” 

Riddle nodded. Dumbledore got to his feet and held 
out his hand again. Taking it, Riddle said, “I can 
speak to snakes. I found out when we’ve been to the 
country on trips — they find me, they whisper to me. 
Is that normal for a wizard?” 

Harry could tell that he had withheld mention of this 
strangest power until that moment, determined to 
impress. 

“It is unusual,” said Dumbledore, after a moment’s 
hesitation, “but not unheard of.” 

Page | 308 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




His tone was casual but his eyes moved curiously 
over Riddle’s face. They stood for a moment, man and 
boy, staring at each other. Then the handshake was 
broken; Dumbledore was at the door. 

“Good-bye, Tom. I shall see you at Hogwarts.” 

“I think that will do,” said the white-haired 
Dumbledore at Harry’s side, and seconds later, they 
were soaring weightlessly through darkness once 
more, before landing squarely in the present-day 
office. 

“Sit down,” said Dumbledore, landing beside Harry. 

Harry obeyed, his mind still full of what he had just 
seen. 

“He believed it much quicker than I did — I mean, 
when you told him he was a wizard,” said Harry. “I 
didn’t believe Hagrid at first, when he told me.” 

“Yes, Riddle was perfectly ready to believe that he was 
— to use his word — ‘special,’ ” said Dumbledore. 

“Did you know — then?” asked Harry. 

“Did I know that I had just met the most dangerous 
Dark wizard of all time?” said Dumbledore. “No, I had 
no idea that he was to grow up to be what he is. 
However, I was certainly intrigued by him. I returned 
to Hogwarts intending to keep an eye upon him, 
something I should have done in any case, given that 
he was alone and friendless, but which, already, I felt 
I ought to do for others’ sake as much as his. 

“His powers, as you heard, were surprisingly well- 
developed for such a young wizard and — most 
interestingly and ominously of all — he had already 

Page | 309 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




discovered that he had some measure of control over 
them, and begun to use them consciously. And as 
you saw, they were not the random experiments 
typical of young wizards: He was already using magic 
against other people, to frighten, to punish, to 
control. The little stories of the strangled rabbit and 
the young boy and girl he lured into a cave were most 
suggestive. ... ‘I can make them hurt if I want to. ...”’ 

“And he was a Parselmouth,” interjected Harry. 

“Yes, indeed; a rare ability, and one supposedly 
connected with the Dark Arts, although as we know, 
there are Parselmouths among the great and the good 
too. In fact, his ability to speak to serpents did not 
make me nearly as uneasy as his obvious instincts for 
cruelty, secrecy, and domination. 

“Time is making fools of us again,” said Dumbledore, 
indicating the dark sky beyond the windows. “But 
before we part, I want to draw your attention to 
certain features of the scene we have just witnessed, 
for they have a great bearing on the matters we shall 
be discussing in future meetings. 

“Firstly, I hope you noticed Riddle’s reaction when I 
mentioned that another shared his first name, Tom’?” 

Harry nodded. 

“There he showed his contempt for anything that tied 
him to other people, anything that made him 
ordinary. Even then, he wished to be different, 
separate, notorious. He shed his name, as you know, 
within a few short years of that conversation and 
created the mask of ‘Lord Voldemort’ behind which he 
has been hidden for so long. 



Page | 310 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I trust that you also noticed that Tom Riddle was 
already highly self-sufficient, secretive, and, 
apparently, friendless? He did not want help or 
companionship on his trip to Diagon Alley. He 
preferred to operate alone. The adult Voldemort is the 
same. You will hear many of his Death Eaters 
claiming that they are in his confidence, that they 
alone are close to him, even understand him. They 
are deluded. Lord Voldemort has never had a friend, 
nor do I believe that he has ever wanted one. 

“And lastly — I hope you are not too sleepy to pay 
attention to this, Harry — the young Tom Riddle liked 
to collect trophies. You saw the box of stolen articles 
he had hidden in his room. These were taken from 
victims of his bullying behavior, souvenirs, if you will, 
of particularly unpleasant bits of magic. Bear in mind 
this magpie-like tendency, for this, particularly, will 
be important later. 

“And now, it really is time for bed.” 

Harry got to his feet. As he walked across the room, 
his eyes fell upon the little table on which Marvolo 
Gaunt’s ring had rested last time, but the ring was no 
longer there. 

“Yes, Harry?” said Dumbledore, for Harry had come to 
a halt. 

“The ring’s gone,” said Harry, looking around. “But I 
thought you might have the mouth organ or 
something.” 

Dumbledore beamed at him, peering over the top of 
his half-moon spectacles. 

“Very astute, Harry, but the mouth organ was only 
ever a mouth organ.” 

Page | 311 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




And on that enigmatic note he waved to Harry, who 
understood himself to be dismissed. 



Page | 312 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 








FELIX FELICIS 

Harry had Herbology first thing the following 
morning. He had been unable to tell Ron and 
Hermione about his lesson with Dumbledore over 
breakfast for fear of being overheard, but he filled 
them in as they walked across the vegetable patch 
toward the greenhouses. The weekend’s brutal wind 
had died out at last; the weird mist had returned and 
it took them a little longer than usual to find the 
correct greenhouse. 

“Wow, scary thought, the boy You-Know-Who,” said 
Ron quietly, as they took their places around one of 
the gnarled Snargaluff stumps that formed this term’s 
project, and began pulling on their protective gloves. 
“But I still don’t get why Dumbledore’s showing you 
all this. I mean, it’s really interesting and everything, 
but what’s the point?” 

“Dunno,” said Harry, inserting a gum shield. “But he 
says it’s all important and it’ll help me survive.” 



Page | 313 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“I think it’s fascinating,” said Hermione earnestly. “It 
makes absolute sense to know as much about 
Voldemort as possible. How else will you find out his 
weaknesses?” 

“So how was Slughorn’s latest party?” Harry asked 
her thickly through the gum shield. 

“Oh, it was quite fun, really,” said Hermione, now 
putting on protective goggles. “I mean, he drones on 
about famous ex-pupils a bit, and he absolutely 
fawns on McLaggen because he’s so well-connected, 
but he gave us some really nice food and he 
introduced us to Gwenog Jones.” 

“Gwenog Jones?” said Ron, his eyes widening under 
his own goggles. “The Gwenog Jones? Captain of the 
Holyhead Harpies?” 

“That’s right,” said Hermione. “Personally, I thought 
she was a bit full of herself, but — ” 

“Quite enough chat over here!” said Professor Sprout 
briskly, bustling over and looking stern. “You’re 
lagging behind, everybody else has started, and 
Neville’s already got his first pod!” 

They looked around; sure enough, there sat Neville 
with a bloody lip and several nasty scratches along 
the side of his face, but clutching an unpleasantly 
pulsating green object about the size of a grapefruit. 

“Okay, Professor, we’re starting now!” said Ron, 
adding quietly, when she had turned away again, 
“should’ve used Muffliato, Harry.” 

“No, we shouldn’t!” said Hermione at once, looking, as 
she always did, intensely cross at the thought of the 



Page | 314 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Half-Blood Prince and his spells. “Well, come on ... 
we’d better get going. ...” 



She gave the other two an apprehensive look; they all 
took deep breaths and then dived at the gnarled 
stump between them. 

It sprang to life at once; long, prickly, bramblelike 
vines flew out of the top and whipped through the air. 
One tangled itself in Hermione’s hair, and Ron beat it 
back with a pair of secateurs; Harry succeeded in 
trapping a couple of vines and knotting them 
together; a hole opened in the middle of all the 
tentaclelike branches; Hermione plunged her arm 
bravely into this hole, which closed like a trap around 
her elbow; Harry and Ron tugged and wrenched at 
the vines, forcing the hole to open again, and 
Hermione snatched her arm free, clutching in her 
fingers a pod just like Neville’s. At once, the prickly 
vines shot back inside, and the gnarled stump sat 
there looking like an innocently dead lump of wood. 

“You know, I don’t think I’ll be having any of these in 
my garden when I’ve got my own place,” said Ron, 
pushing his goggles up onto his forehead and wiping 
sweat from his face. 

“Pass me a bowl,” said Hermione, holding the 
pulsating pod at arm’s length; Harry handed one over 
and she dropped the pod into it with a look of disgust 
on her face. 

“Don’t be squeamish, squeeze it out, they’re best 
when they’re fresh!” called Professor Sprout. 

“Anyway,” said Hermione, continuing their 
interrupted conversation as though a lump of wood 
had not just attacked them, “Slughorn’s going to have 
a Christmas party, Harry, and there’s no way you’ll be 

Page | 315 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




able to wriggle out of this one because he actually 
asked me to check your free evenings, so he could be 
sure to have it on a night you can come.” 

Harry groaned. Meanwhile, Ron, who was attempting 
to burst the pod in the bowl by putting both hands on 
it, standing up, and squashing it as hard as he could, 
said angrily, “And this is another party just for 
Slughorn’s favorites, is it?” 

“Just for the Slug Club, yes,” said Hermione. 

The pod flew out from under Ron’s fingers and hit the 
greenhouse glass, rebounding onto the back of 
Professor Sprout’s head and knocking off her old, 
patched hat. Harry went to retrieve the pod; when he 
got back, Hermione was saying, “Look, / didn’t make 
up the name ‘Slug Club’ — ” 

“ ‘Slug Club,’ ” repeated Ron with a sneer worthy of 
Malfoy. “It’s pathetic. Well, I hope you enjoy your 
party. Why don’t you try hooking up with McLaggen, 
then Slughorn can make you King and Queen Slug — 



“We’re allowed to bring guests,” said Hermione, who 
for some reason had turned a bright, boiling scarlet, 
“and I was going to ask you to come, but if you think 
it’s that stupid then I won’t bother!” 

Harry suddenly wished the pod had flown a little 
farther, so that he need not have been sitting here 
with the pair of them. Unnoticed by either, he seized 
the bowl that contained the pod and began to try and 
open it by the noisiest and most energetic means he 
could think of; unfortunately, he could still hear every 
word of their conversation. 



Page | 316 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You were going to ask me?” asked Ron, in a 
completely different voice. 

“Yes,” said Hermione angrily. “But obviously if you’d 
rather I hooked up with McLaggen ...” 

