happened? We’ve got to keep out of sight! No, 
Buckbeak).” 

The hippogriff was making frantic attempts to get to 
Hagrid again; Harry seized his rope too, straining to 
hold Buckbeak back. They watched Hagrid meander 
tipsily up to the castle. He was gone. Buckbeak 
stopped fighting to get away. His head drooped sadly. 

Barely two minutes later, the castle doors flew open 
yet again, and Snape came charging out of them, 
running toward the Willow. 

Harry’s fists clenched as they watched Snape skid to 
a halt next to the tree, looking around. He grabbed 
the cloak and held it up. 



Page | 453 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Get your filthy hands off it,” Harry snarled under his 
breath. 

“Shh!” 

Snape seized the branch Lupin had used to freeze the 
tree, prodded the knot, and vanished from view as he 
put on the cloak. 

“So that’s it,” said Hermione quietly. “We’re all down 
there ... and now we’ve just got to wait until we come 
back up again. ...” 

She took the end of Buckbeak’s rope and tied it 
securely around the nearest tree, then sat down on 
the dry ground, arms around her knees. 

“Harry, there’s something I don’t understand. ... Why 
didn’t the dementors get Sirius? I remember them 
coming, and then I think I passed out . . . there were 
so many of them. ...” 

Harry sat down too. He explained what he’d seen; 
how, as the nearest dementor had lowered its mouth 
to Harry’s, a large silver something had come 
galloping across the lake and forced the dementors to 
retreat. 

Hermione ’s mouth was slightly open by the time 
Harry had finished. 

“But what was it?” 

“There’s only one thing it could have been, to make 
the dementors go,” said Harry. “A real Patronus. A 
powerful one.” 

“But who conjured it?” 



Page | 454 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry didn’t say anything. He was thinking back to 
the person he’d seen on the other bank of the lake. He 
knew who he thought it had been . . . but how could it 
have been? 

“Didn’t you see what they looked like?” said Hermione 
eagerly. “Was it one of the teachers?” 

“No,” said Harry. “He wasn’t a teacher.” 

“But it must have been a really powerful wizard, to 
drive all those dementors away. ... If the Patronus 
was shining so brightly, didn’t it light him up? 
Couldn’t you see — ?” 

“Yeah, I saw him,” said Harry slowly. “But ... maybe I 
imagined it. ... I wasn’t thinking straight. ... I passed 
out right afterward. ...” 

“ Who did you think it was?” 

“I think — ” Harry swallowed, knowing how strange 
this was going to sound. “I think it was my dad.” 

Harry glanced up at Hermione and saw that her 
mouth was fully open now. She was gazing at him 
with a mixture of alarm and pity. 

“Harry, your dad’s — well — dead,” she said quietly. 

“I know that,” said Harry quickly. 

“You think you saw his ghost?” 

“I don’t know ... no ... he looked solid. ...” 

“But then — ” 



Page | 455 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Maybe I was seeing things,” said Harry. “But ... from 
what I could see ... it looked like him. ... I’ve got 
photos of him. ...” 

Hermione was still looking at him as though worried 
about his sanity. 

“I know it sounds crazy,” said Harry flatly. He turned 
to look at Buckbeak, who was digging his beak into 
the ground, apparently searching for worms. But he 
wasn’t really watching Buckbeak. 

He was thinking about his father and about his 
father’s three oldest friends ... Moony, Wormtail, 
Padfoot, and Prongs. ... Had all four of them been out 
on the grounds tonight? Wormtail had reappeared 
this evening when everyone had thought he was dead. 
... Was it so impossible his father had done the same? 
Had he been seeing things across the lake? The figure 
had been too far away to see distinctly . . . yet he had 
felt sure, for a moment, before he’d lost 
consciousness. ... 

The leaves overhead rustled faintly in the breeze. The 
moon drifted in and out of sight behind the shifting 
clouds. Hermione sat with her face turned toward the 
Willow, waiting. 

And then, at last, after over an hour . . . 

“Here we come!” Hermione whispered. 

She and Harry got to their feet. Buckbeak raised his 
head. They saw Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron clambering 
awkwardly out of the hole in the roots . . . followed by 
the unconscious Snape, drifting weirdly upward. Next 
came Harry, Hermione, and Black. They all began to 
walk toward the castle. 



Page | 456 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s heart was starting to beat very fast. He 
glanced up at the sky. Any moment now, that cloud 
was going to move aside and show the moon. ... 

“Harry,” Hermione muttered as though she knew 
exactly what he was thinking, “we’ve got to stay put. 
We mustn’t be seen. There’s nothing we can do. ...” 

“So we’re just going to let Pettigrew escape all over 
again. ...” said Harry quietly. 

“How do you expect to find a rat in the dark?” 
snapped Hermione. “There’s nothing we can do! We 
came back to help Sirius; we’re not supposed to be 
doing anything else!” 

“ All right'.” 

The moon slid out from behind its cloud. They saw 
the tiny figures across the grounds stop. Then they 
saw movement — 

“There goes Lupin,” Hermione whispered. “He’s 
transforming — ” 

“Hermione!” said Harry suddenly. “We’ve got to move!” 

“We mustn’t, I keep telling you — ” 

“Not to interfere! Lupin’s going to run into the forest, 
right at us!” 

Hermione gasped. 

“Quick!” she moaned, dashing to untie Buckbeak. 
“Quick! Where are we going to go? Where are we going 
to hide? The dementors will be coming any moment — 



Page | 457 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Back to Hagrid’s!” Harry said. “It’s empty now — 
come on!” 

They ran as fast as they could, Buckbeak cantering 
along behind them. They could hear the werewolf 
howling behind them. ... 

The cabin was in sight; Harry skidded to the door, 
wrenched it open, and Hermione and Buckbeak 
flashed past him; Harry threw himself in after them 
and bolted the door. Fang the boarhound barked 
loudly. 

“Shh, Fang, it’s us!” said Hermione, hurrying over and 
scratching his ears to quieten him. “That was really 
close!” she said to Harry. 

“Yeah ...” 

Harry was looking out of the window. It was much 
harder to see what was going on from here. Buckbeak 
seemed very happy to find himself back inside 
Hagrid’s house. He lay down in front of the fire, folded 
his wings contentedly, and seemed ready for a good 
nap. 

“I think I’d better go outside again, you know,” said 
Harry slowly. “I can’t see what’s going on — we won’t 
know when it’s time — ” 

Hermione looked up. Her expression was suspicious. 

“I’m not going to try and interfere,” said Harry 
quickly. “But if we don’t see what’s going on, how’re 
we going to know when it’s time to rescue Sirius?” 

“Well ... okay, then ... I’ll wait here with Buckbeak ... 
but Harry, be careful — there’s a werewolf out there 
— and the dementors — ” 

Page | 458 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stepped outside again and edged around the 
cabin. He could hear yelping in the distance. That 
meant the dementors were closing in on Sirius. ... He 
and Hermione would be running to him any moment. 



Harry stared out toward the lake, his heart doing a 
kind of drumroll in his chest. ... Whoever had sent 
that Patronus would be appearing at any moment. ... 

For a fraction of a second he stood, irresolute, in front 
of Hagrid’s door. You must not be seen. But he didn’t 
want to be seen. He wanted to do the seeing. ... He 
had to know. . . . 

And there were the dementors. They were emerging 
out of the darkness from every direction, gliding 
around the edges of the lake. ... They were moving 
away from where Harry stood, to the opposite bank. 

... He wouldn’t have to get near them. ... 

Harry began to run. He had no thought in his head 
except his father. ... If it was him ... if it really was 
him ... he had to know, had to find out. ... 

The lake was coming nearer and nearer, but there 
was no sign of anybody. On the opposite bank, he 
could see tiny glimmers of silver — his own attempts 
at a Patronus — 

There was a bush at the very edge of the water. Harry 
threw himself behind it, peering desperately through 
the leaves. On the opposite bank, the glimmers of 
silver were suddenly extinguished. A terrified 
excitement shot through him — any moment now — 

“Come on!” he muttered, staring about. “Where are 
you? Dad, come on — ” 



Page | 459 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




But no one came. Harry raised his head to look at the 
circle of dementors across the lake. One of them was 
lowering its hood. It was time for the rescuer to 
appear — but no one was coming to help this time — 

And then it hit him — he understood. He hadn’t seen 
his father — he had seen himself — 

Harry flung himself out from behind the bush and 
pulled out his wand. 

“EXPECTO PATRONUM ” he yelled. 

And out of the end of his wand burst, not a shapeless 
cloud of mist, but a blinding, dazzling, silver animal. 
He screwed up his eyes, trying to see what it was. It 
looked like a horse. It was galloping silently away 
from him, across the black surface of the lake. He 
saw it lower its head and charge at the swarming 
dementors. ... Now it was galloping around and 
around the black shapes on the ground, and the 
dementors were falling back, scattering, retreating 
into the darkness. ... They were gone. 

The Patronus turned. It was cantering back toward 
Harry across the still surface of the water. It wasn’t a 
horse. It wasn’t a unicorn, either. It was a stag. It was 
shining brightly as the moon above ... it was coming 
back to him. ... 

It stopped on the bank. Its hooves made no mark on 
the soft ground as it stared at Harry with its large, 
silver eyes. Slowly, it bowed its antlered head. And 
Harry realized . . . 

“Prongs,” he whispered. 

But as his trembling fingertips stretched toward the 
creature, it vanished. 

Page | 460 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stood there, hand still outstretched. Then, with 
a great leap of his heart, he heard hooves behind him 
— he whirled around and saw Hermione dashing 
toward him, dragging Buckbeak behind her. 

“What did you do?” she said fiercely. “You said you 
were only going to keep a lookout!” 

“I just saved all our lives ... ,” said Harry. “Get behind 
here — behind this bush — I’ll explain.” 

Hermione listened to what had just happened with 
her mouth open yet again. 

“Did anyone see you?” 

“Yes, haven’t you been listening? I saw me but I 
thought I was my dad! It’s okay!” 

“Harry, I can’t believe it. ... You conjured up a 
Patronus that drove away all those dementors! That’s 
very, very advanced magic. ...” 

“I knew I could do it this time,” said Harry, “because 
I’d already done it. ... Does that make sense?” 

“I don’t know — Harry, look at Snape!” 

Together they peered around the bush at the other 
bank. Snape had regained consciousness. He was 
conjuring stretchers and lifting the limp forms of 
Harry, Hermione, and Black onto them. A fourth 
stretcher, no doubt bearing Ron, was already floating 
at his side. Then, wand held out in front of him, he 
moved them away toward the castle. 

“Right, it’s nearly time,” said Hermione tensely, 
looking at her watch. “We’ve got about forty-five 
minutes until Dumbledore locks the door to the 

Page | 461 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




hospital wing. We’ve got to rescue Sirius and get back 
into the ward before anybody realizes we’re missing. 



They waited, watching the moving clouds reflected in 
the lake, while the bush next to them whispered in 
the breeze. Buckbeak, bored, was ferreting for worms 
again. 

“D’you reckon he’s up there yet?” said Harry, 
checking his watch. He looked up at the castle and 
began counting the windows to the right of the West 
Tower. 

“Look!” Hermione whispered. “Who’s that? Someone’s 
coming back out of the castle!” 

Harry stared through the darkness. The man was 
hurrying across the grounds, toward one of the 
entrances. Something shiny glinted in his belt. 

“Macnair!” said Harry. “The executioner! He’s gone to 
get the dementors! This is it, Hermione — ” 

Hermione put her hands on Buckbeak’s back and 
Harry gave her a leg up. Then he placed his foot on 
one of the lower branches of the bush and climbed up 
in front of her. He pulled Buckbeak’s rope back over 
his neck and tied it to the other side of his collar like 
reins. 

“Ready?” he whispered to Hermione. “You’d better 
hold on to me — ” 

He nudged Buckbeak’s sides with his heels. 

Buckbeak soared straight into the dark air. Harry 
gripped his flanks with his knees, feeling the great 
wings rising powerfully beneath them. Hermione was 

Page | 462 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




holding Harry very tight around the waist; he could 
hear her muttering, “Oh, no — I don’t like this — oh, I 
really don’t like this — ” 

Harry urged Buckbeak forward. They were gliding 
quietly toward the upper floors of the castle. ... Harry 
pulled hard on the left-hand side of the rope, and 
Buckbeak turned. Harry was trying to count the 
windows flashing past — 

“Whoa!” he said, pulling backward as hard as he 
could. 

Buckbeak slowed down and they found themselves at 
a stop, unless you counted the fact that they kept 
rising up and down several feet as the hippogriff beat 
his wings to remain airborne. 

“He’s there!” Harry said, spotting Sirius as they rose 
up beside the window. He reached out, and as 
Buckbeak’s wings fell, was able to tap sharply on the 
glass. 

Black looked up. Harry saw his jaw drop. He leapt 
from his chair, hurried to the window and tried to 
open it, but it was locked. 

“Stand back!” Hermione called to him, and she took 
out her wand, still gripping the back of Harry’s robes 
with her left hand. 

“Alohomoral” 

The window sprang open. 

“How — how — ?” said Black weakly, staring at the 
hippogriff. 



Page | 463 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Get on — there’s not much time,” said Harry, 
gripping Buckbeak firmly on either side of his sleek 
neck to hold him steady. “You’ve got to get out of here 

— the dementors are coming — Macnair’s gone to get 
them.” 

Black placed a hand on either side of the window 
frame and heaved his head and shoulders out of it. It 
was very lucky he was so thin. In seconds, he had 
managed to fling one leg over Buckbeak’s back and 
pull himself onto the hippogriff behind Hermione. 

“Okay, Buckbeak, up!” said Harry, shaking the rope. 
“Up to the tower — come on!” 

The hippogriff gave one sweep of its mighty wings and 
they were soaring upward again, high as the top of 
the West Tower. Buckbeak landed with a clatter on 
the battlements, and Harry and Hermione slid off him 
at once. 

“Sirius, you’d better go, quick,” Harry panted. “They’ll 
reach Flitwick’s office any moment, they’ll find out 
you’re gone.” 

Buckbeak pawed the ground, tossing his sharp head. 

“What happened to the other boy? Ron?” croaked 
Sirius. 

“He’s going to be okay. He’s still out of it, but Madam 
Pomfrey says shell be able to make him better. Quick 

- go 



But Black was still staring down at Harry. 

“How can I ever thank — ” 

“GO!” Harry and Hermione shouted together. 

Page | 464 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black wheeled Buckbeak around, facing the open sky. 

“Well see each other again,” he said. “You are — truly 
your father’s son, Harry. ...” 

He squeezed Buckbeak’s sides with his heels. Harry 
and Hermione jumped back as the enormous wings 
rose once more. ... The hippogriff took off into the air. 

. . . He and his rider became smaller and smaller as 
Harry gazed after them ... then a cloud drifted across 
the moon. ... They were gone. 



Page | 465 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 





OWL POST AGAIN 



“Harry!” 

Hermione was tugging at his sleeve, staring at her 
watch. “We’ve got exactly ten minutes to get back 
down to the hospital wing without anybody seeing us 
— before Dumbledore locks the door — ” 

“Okay,” said Harry, wrenching his gaze from the sky, 
“let’s go. ...” 

They slipped through the doorway behind them and 
down a tightly spiraling stone staircase. As they 
reached the bottom of it, they heard voices. They 
flattened themselves against the wall and listened. It 
sounded like Fudge and Snape. They were walking 
quickly along the corridor at the foot of the staircase. 

"... only hope Dumbledore ’s not going to make 
difficulties,” Snape was saying. “The Kiss will be 
performed immediately?” 



Page | 466 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“As soon as Macnair returns with the dementors. This 
whole Black affair has been highly embarrassing. I 
can’t tell you how much I’m looking forward to 
informing the Daily Prophet that we’ve got him at last. 
...I daresay they’ll want to interview you, Snape ... 
and once young Harry’s back in his right mind, I 
expect he’ll want to tell the Prophet exactly how you 
saved him. ...” 

Harry clenched his teeth. He caught a glimpse of 
Snape’s smirk as he and Fudge passed Harry and 
Hermione’s hiding place. Their footsteps died away. 
Harry and Hermione waited a few moments to make 
sure they’d really gone, then started to run in the 
opposite direction. Down one staircase, then another, 
along a new corridor — then they heard a cackling 
ahead. 

“Peeves\” Harry muttered, grabbing Hermione’s wrist. 
“In here!” 

They tore into a deserted classroom to their left just 
in time. Peeves seemed to be bouncing along the 
corridor in boisterous good spirits, laughing his head 
off. 

“Oh, he’s horrible,” whispered Hermione, her ear to 
the door. “I bet he’s all excited because the dementors 
are going to finish off Sirius. ...” She checked her 
watch. “Three minutes, Harry!” 

They waited until Peeves ’s gloating voice had faded 
into the distance, then slid back out of the room and 
broke into a run again. 

“Hermione — what’ll happen — if we don’t get back 
inside — before Dumbledore locks the door?” Harry 
panted. 



Page | 467 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t want to think about it!” Hermione moaned, 
checking her watch again. “One minute!” 

They had reached the end of the corridor with the 
hospital wing entrance. “Okay — I can hear 
Dumbledore,” said Hermione tensely. “Come on, 
Harry!” 

They crept along the corridor. The door opened. 
Dumbledore ’s back appeared. 

“I am going to lock you in,” they heard him saying. “It 
is five minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns 
should do it. Good luck.” 

Dumbledore backed out of the room, closed the door, 
and took out his wand to magically lock it. Panicking, 
Harry and Hermione ran forward. Dumbledore looked 
up, and a wide smile appeared under the long silver 
mustache. “Well?” he said quietly. 

“We did it!” said Harry breathlessly. “Sirius has gone, 
on Buckbeak. ...” 

Dumbledore beamed at them. 

“Well done. I think — ” He listened intently for any 
sound within the hospital wing. “Yes, I think you’ve 
gone too — get inside — I’ll lock you in — ” 

Harry and Hermione slipped back inside the 
dormitory. It was empty except for Ron, who was still 
lying motionless in the end bed. As the lock clicked 
behind them, Harry and Hermione crept back to their 
own beds, Hermione tucking the Time-Turner back 
under her robes. A moment later, Madam Pomfrey 
came striding back out of her office. 



Page | 468 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Did I hear the headmaster leaving? Am I allowed to 
look after my patients now?” 

She was in a very bad mood. Harry and Hermione 
thought it best to accept their chocolate quietly. 
Madam Pomfrey stood over them, making sure they 
ate it. But Harry could hardly swallow. He and 
Hermione were waiting, listening, their nerves 
jangling. ... And then, as they both took a fourth piece 
of chocolate from Madam Pomfrey, they heard a 
distant roar of fury echoing from somewhere above 
them. ... 

“What was that?” said Madam Pomfrey in alarm. 

Now they could hear angry voices, growing louder and 
louder. Madam Pomfrey was staring at the door. 

“Really — they’ll wake everybody up! What do they 
think they’re doing?” 

Harry was trying to hear what the voices were saying. 
They were drawing nearer — 

“He must have Disapparated, Severus. We should 
have left somebody in the room with him. When this 
gets out — ” 

“HE DIDNT DISAPPARATE!” Snape roared, now very 
close at hand. “YOU CANT APPARATE OR 
DISAPPARATE INSIDE THIS CASTLE! THIS — HAS — 
SOMETHING — TO — DO — WITH — POTTER!” 

“Severus — be reasonable — Harry has been locked 
up-” 

BAM. 

The door of the hospital wing burst open. 

Page | 469 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge, Snape, and Dumbledore came striding into the 
ward. Dumbledore alone looked calm. Indeed, he 
looked as though he was quite enjoying himself. 

Fudge appeared angry. But Snape was beside himself. 

“OUT WITH IT, POTTER!” he bellowed. “WHAT DID 
YOU DO?” 

“Professor Snape!” shrieked Madam Pomfrey. “Control 
yourself!” 

“See here, Snape, be reasonable,” said Fudge. “This 
door’s been locked, we just saw — ” 

“THEY HELPED HIM ESCAPE, I KNOW IT!” Snape 
howled, pointing at Harry and Hermione. His face was 
twisted; spit was flying from his mouth. 

“Calm down, man!” Fudge barked. “You’re talking 
nonsense!” 

“YOU DONT KNOW POTTER!” shrieked Snape. “HE 
DID IT, I KNOW HE DID IT — ” 

“That will do, Severus,” said Dumbledore quietly. 
“Think about what you are saying. This door has been 
locked since I left the ward ten minutes ago. Madam 
Pomfrey, have these students left their beds?” 

“Of course not!” said Madam Pomfrey, bristling. “I 
would have heard them!” 

“Well, there you have it, Severus,” said Dumbledore 
calmly. “Unless you are suggesting that Harry and 
Hermione are able to be in two places at once, I’m 
afraid I don’t see any point in troubling them further.” 

Snape stood there, seething, staring from Fudge, who 
looked thoroughly shocked at his behavior, to 

Page | 470 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore, whose eyes were twinkling behind his 
glasses. Snape whirled about, robes swishing behind 
him, and stormed out of the ward. 

“Fellow seems quite unbalanced,” said Fudge, staring 
after him. “I’d watch out for him if I were you, 
Dumbledore.” 

“Oh, he’s not unbalanced,” said Dumbledore quietly. 
“He’s just suffered a severe disappointment.” 

“He’s not the only one!” puffed Fudge. “The Daily 
Prophet’s going to have a field day! We had Black 
cornered and he slipped through our fingers yet 
again! All it needs now is for the story of that 
hippogriff’s escape to get out, and I’ll be a 
laughingstock! Well ... I’d better go and notify the 
Ministry. ...” 

“And the dementors?” said Dumbledore. “They’ll be 
removed from the school, I trust?” 

“Oh yes, they’ll have to go,” said Fudge, running his 
fingers distractedly through his hair. “Never dreamed 
they’d attempt to administer the Kiss on an innocent 
boy. ... Completely out of control ... no, I’ll have them 
packed off back to Azkaban tonight. ... Perhaps we 
should think about dragons at the school entrance. 



“Hagrid would like that,” said Dumbledore, smiling at 
Harry and Hermione. As he and Fudge left the 
dormitory, Madam Pomfrey hurried to the door and 
locked it again. Muttering angrily to herself, she 
headed back to her office. 

There was a low moan from the other end of the ward. 
Ron had woken up. They could see him sitting up, 
rubbing his head, looking around. 

Page | 471 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What — what happened?” he groaned. “Harry? Why 
are we in here? Where’s Sirius? Where’s Lupin? 

What’s going on?” 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other. 

“You explain,” said Harry, helping himself to some 
more chocolate. 

When Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the hospital 
wing at noon the next day, it was to find an almost 
deserted castle. The sweltering heat and the end of 
the exams meant that everyone was taking full 
advantage of another Hogsmeade visit. Neither Ron 
nor Hermione felt like going, however, so they and 
Harry wandered onto the grounds, still talking about 
the extraordinary events of the previous night and 
wondering where Sirius and Buckbeak were now. 
Sitting near the lake, watching the giant squid waving 
its tentacles lazily above the water, Harry lost the 
thread of the conversation as he looked across to the 
opposite bank. The stag had galloped toward him 
from there just last night. ... 

A shadow fell across them and they looked up to see a 
very bleary-eyed Hagrid, mopping his sweaty face with 
one of his tablecloth-sized handkerchiefs and 
beaming down at them. 

“Know I shouldn’ feel happy, after wha’ happened las’ 
night,” he said. “I mean, Black escapin’ again, an’ 
everythin’ — but guess what?” 

“What?” they said, pretending to look curious. 

“Beaky! He escaped! He’s free! Bin celebratin’ all 
night!” 



Page | 472 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s wonderful!” said Hermione, giving Ron a 
reproving look because he looked as though he was 
close to laughing. 

“Yeah ... can’t’ve tied him up properly,” said Hagrid, 
gazing happily out over the grounds. “I was worried 
this mornin’, mind ... thought he mighta met 
Professor Lupin on the grounds, but Lupin says he 
never ate anythin’ las’ night. ...” 

“What?” said Harry quickly. 

“Blimey, haven’ yeh heard?” said Hagrid, his smile 
fading a little. He lowered his voice, even though there 
was nobody in sight. “Er — Snape told all the 
Slytherins this mornin’. ... Thought everyone ’d know 
by now ... Professor Lupin’s a werewolf, see. An’ he 
was loose on the grounds las’ night. ... He’s packin’ 
now, o’ course.” 

“He’s packing?” said Harry, alarmed. “Why?” 

“Leavin’, isn’ he?” said Hagrid, looking surprised that 
Harry had to ask. “Resigned firs’ thing this mornin’. 
Says he can’t risk it happenin’ again.” 

Harry scrambled to his feet. 

“I’m going to see him,” he said to Ron and Hermione. 
“But if he’s resigned — ” 

“ — doesn’t sound like there’s anything we can do — ” 

“I don’t care. I still want to see him. I’ll meet you back 
here.” 

Lupin’s office door was open. He had already packed 
most of his things. The grindylow’s empty tank stood 

Page | 473 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




next to his battered old suitcase, which was open and 
nearly full. Lupin was bending over something on his 
desk and looked up only when Harry knocked on the 
door. 

“I saw you coming,” said Lupin, smiling. He pointed to 
the parchment he had been poring over. It was the 
Marauder’s Map. 

“I just saw Hagrid,” said Harry. “And he said you’d 
resigned. It’s not true, is it?” 

“I’m afraid it is,” said Lupin. He started opening his 
desk drawers and taking out the contents. 

“Why?” said Harry. “The Ministry of Magic don’t think 
you were helping Sirius, do they?” 

Lupin crossed to the door and closed it behind Harry. 

“No. Professor Dumbledore managed to convince 
Fudge that I was trying to save your lives.” He sighed. 
“That was the final straw for Severus. I think the loss 
of the Order of Merlin hit him hard. So he — er — 
accidentally let slip that I am a werewolf this morning 
at breakfast.” 

“You’re not leaving just because of that!” said Harry. 
Lupin smiled wryly. 

“This time tomorrow, the owls will start arriving from 
parents. ... They will not want a werewolf teaching 
their children, Harry. And after last night, I see their 
point. I could have bitten any of you. ... That must 
never happen again.” 

“You’re the best Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher we’ve ever had!” said Harry. “Don’t go!” 

Page | 474 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin shook his head and didn’t speak. He carried on 
emptying his drawers. Then, while Harry was trying 
to think of a good argument to make him stay, Lupin 
said, “From what the headmaster told me this 
morning, you saved a lot of lives last night, Harry. If 
I’m proud of anything I’ve done this year, it’s how 
much you’ve learned. ... Tell me about your 
Patronus.” 

“How d’you know about that?” said Harry, distracted. 

“What else could have driven the dementors back?” 

Harry told Lupin what had happened. When he’d 
finished, Lupin was smiling again. 

“Yes, your father was always a stag when he 
transformed,” he said. “You guessed right ... that’s 
why we called him Prongs.” 

Lupin threw his last few books into his case, closed 
the desk drawers, and turned to look at Harry. 

“Here — I brought this from the Shrieking Shack last 
night,” he said, handing Harry back the Invisibility 
Cloak. “And ...” He hesitated, then held out the 
Marauder’s Map too. “I am no longer your teacher, so 
I don’t feel guilty about giving you back this as well. 
It’s no use to me, and I daresay you, Ron, and 
Hermione will find uses for it.” 

Harry took the map and grinned. 

“You told me Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs 
would’ve wanted to lure me out of school ... you said 
they’d have thought it was funny.” 

“And so we would have,” said Lupin, now reaching 
down to close his case. “I have no hesitation in saying 

Page | 475 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




that James would have been highly disappointed if 
his son had never found any of the secret passages 
out of the castle.” 

There was a knock on the door. Harry hastily stuffed 
the Marauder’s Map and the Invisibility Cloak into his 
pocket. 

It was Professor Dumbledore. He didn’t look surprised 
to see Harry there. 

“Your carriage is at the gates, Remus,” he said. 
