
He had to try it, now. He slipped out of bed and 
wrapped the cloak around himself. Looking down at 
his legs, he saw only moonlight and shadows. It was a 
very funny feeling. 

Use it well. 

Suddenly, Harry felt wide-awake. The whole of 
Hogwarts was open to him in this cloak. Excitement 
flooded through him as he stood there in the dark 
and silence. He could go anywhere in this, anywhere, 
and Filch would never know. 

Ron grunted in his sleep. Should Harry wake him? 
Something held him back — his father’s cloak — he 
felt that this time — the first time — he wanted to use 
it alone. 

He crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across 
the common room, and climbed through the portrait 
hole. 

“Who’s there?” squawked the Fat Lady. Harry said 
nothing. He walked quickly down the corridor. 



Page | 229 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Where should he go? He stopped, his heart racing, 
and thought. And then it came to him. The Restricted 
Section in the library. He’d be able to read as long as 
he liked, as long as it took to find out who Flamel 
was. He set off, drawing the Invisibility Cloak tight 
around him as he walked. 

The library was pitch-black and very eerie. Harry lit a 
lamp to see his way along the rows of books. The 
lamp looked as if it was floating along in midair, and 
even though Harry could feel his arm supporting it, 
the sight gave him the creeps. 

The Restricted Section was right at the back of the 
library. Stepping carefully over the rope that 
separated these books from the rest of the library, he 
held up his lamp to read the titles. 

They didn’t tell him much. Their peeling, faded gold 
letters spelled words in languages Harry couldn’t 
understand. Some had no title at all. One book had a 
dark stain on it that looked horribly like blood. The 
hairs on the back of Harry’s neck prickled. Maybe he 
was imagining it, maybe not, but he thought a faint 
whispering was coming from the books, as though 
they knew someone was there who shouldn’t be. 

He had to start somewhere. Setting the lamp down 
carefully on the floor, he looked along the bottom 
shelf for an interesting-looking book. A large black 
and silver volume caught his eye. He pulled it out 
with difficulty, because it was very heavy, and, 
balancing it on his knee, let it fall open. 

A piercing, bloodcurdling shriek split the silence — 
the book was screaming! Harry snapped it shut, but 
the shriek went on and on, one high, unbroken, 
earsplitting note. He stumbled backward and knocked 
over his lamp, which went out at once. Panicking, he 
Page | 230 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




heard footsteps coming down the corridor outside — 
stuffing the shrieking book back on the shelf, he ran 
for it. He passed Filch in the doorway; Filch’s pale, 
wild eyes looked straight through him, and Harry 
slipped under Filch’s outstretched arm and streaked 
off up the corridor, the book’s shrieks still ringing in 
his ears. 

He came to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of 
armor. He had been so busy getting away from the 
library, he hadn’t paid attention to where he was 
going. Perhaps because it was dark, he didn’t 
recognize where he was at all. There was a suit of 
armor near the kitchens, he knew, but he must be 
five floors above there. 

“You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if 
anyone was wandering around at night, and 
somebody’s been in the library — Restricted Section.” 

Harry felt the blood drain out of his face. Wherever he 
was, Filch must know a shortcut, because his soft, 
greasy voice was getting nearer, and to his horror, it 
was Snape who replied, “The Restricted Section? Well, 
they can’t be far, we’ll catch them.” 

Harry stood rooted to the spot as Filch and Snape 
came around the corner ahead. They couldn’t see 
him, of course, but it was a narrow corridor and if 
they came much nearer they’d knock right into him — 
the cloak didn’t stop him from being solid. 

He backed away as quietly as he could. A door stood 
ajar to his left. It was his only hope. He squeezed 
through it, holding his breath, trying not to move it, 
and to his relief he managed to get inside the room 
without their noticing anything. They walked straight 
past, and Harry leaned against the wall, breathing 
deeply, listening to their footsteps dying away. That 
Page | 231 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




had been close, very close. It was a few seconds 
before he noticed anything about the room he had 
hidden in. 



It looked like an unused classroom. The dark shapes 
of desks and chairs were piled against the walls, and 
there was an upturned wastepaper basket — but 
propped against the wall facing him was something 
that didn’t look as if it belonged there, something that 
looked as if someone had just put it there to keep it 
out of the way. 

It was a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, 
with an ornate gold frame, standing on two clawed 
feet. There was an inscription carved around the top: 
Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. 

His panic fading now that there was no sound of Filch 
and Snape, Harry moved nearer to the mirror, 
wanting to look at himself but see no reflection again. 
He stepped in front of it. 

He had to clap his hands to his mouth to stop himself 
from screaming. He whirled around. His heart was 
pounding far more furiously than when the book had 
screamed — for he had seen not only himself in the 
mirror, but a whole crowd of people standing right 
behind him. 

But the room was empty. Breathing very fast, he 
turned slowly back to the mirror. 

There he was, reflected in it, white and scared- 
looking, and there, reflected behind him, were at least 
ten others. Harry looked over his shoulder — but still, 
no one was there. Or were they all invisible, too? Was 
he in fact in a room full of invisible people and this 
mirrors trick was that it reflected them, invisible or 
not? 

Page | 232 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




He looked in the mirror again. A woman standing 
right behind his reflection was smiling at him and 
waving. He reached out a hand and felt the air behind 
him. If she was really there, he’d touch her, their 
reflections were so close together, but he felt only air 
— she and the others existed only in the mirror. 

She was a very pretty woman. She had dark red hair 
and her eyes — her eyes are just like mine, Harry 
thought, edging a little closer to the glass. Bright 
green — exactly the same shape, but then he noticed 
that she was crying; smiling, but crying at the same 
time. The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next 
to her put his arm around her. He wore glasses, and 
his hair was very untidy. It stuck up at the back, just 
as Harry’s did. 

Harry was so close to the mirror now that his nose 
was nearly touching that of his reflection. 

“Mom?” he whispered. “Dad?” 

They just looked at him, smiling. And slowly, Harry 
looked into the faces of the other people in the mirror, 
and saw other pairs of green eyes like his, other noses 
like his, even a little old man who looked as though 
he had Harry’s knobbly knees — Harry was looking at 
his family, for the first time in his life. 

The Potters smiled and waved at Harry and he stared 
hungrily back at them, his hands pressed flat against 
the glass as though he was hoping to fall right 
through it and reach them. He had a powerful kind of 
ache inside him, half joy, half terrible sadness. 

How long he stood there, he didn’t know. The 
reflections did not fade and he looked and looked 
until a distant noise brought him back to his senses. 
He couldn’t stay here, he had to find his way back to 

Page | 233 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




bed. He tore his eyes away from his mother’s face, 
whispered, “I’ll come back,” and hurried from the 
room. 

“You could have woken me up,” said Ron, crossly. 

“You can come tonight, I’m going back, I want to show 
you the mirror.” 

“I’d like to see your mom and dad,” Ron said eagerly. 

“And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys, 
you’ll be able to show me your other brothers and 
everyone.” 

“You can see them any old time,” said Ron. “Just 
come round my house this summer. Anyway, maybe 
it only shows dead people. Shame about not finding 
Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why 
aren’t you eating anything?” 

Harry couldn’t eat. He had seen his parents and 
would be seeing them again tonight. He had almost 
forgotten about Flamel. It didn’t seem very important 
anymore. Who cared what the three-headed dog was 
guarding? What did it matter if Snape stole it, really? 

“Are you all right?” said Ron. “You look odd.” 

What Harry feared most was that he might not be 
able to find the mirror room again. With Ron covered 
in the cloak, too, they had to walk much more slowly 
the next night. They tried retracing Harry’s route from 
the library, wandering around the dark passageways 
for nearly an hour. 

“I’m freezing,” said Ron. “Let’s forget it and go back.” 

“IVo!” Harry hissed. “I know it’s here somewhere.” 

Page | 234 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




They passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the 
opposite direction, but saw no one else. Just as Ron 
started moaning that his feet were dead with cold, 
Harry spotted the suit of armor. 

“It’s here — just here — yes!” 

They pushed the door open. Harry dropped the cloak 
from around his shoulders and ran to the mirror. 

There they were. His mother and father beamed at the 
sight of him. 

“See?” Harry whispered. 

“I can’t see anything.” 

“Look! Look at them all ... there are loads of them. ...” 
“I can only see you.” 

“Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am.” 

Harry stepped aside, but with Ron in front of the 
mirror, he couldn’t see his family anymore, just Ron 
in his paisley pajamas. 

Ron, though, was staring transfixed at his image. 
“Look at me!” he said. 

“Can you see all your family standing around you?” 

“No — I’m alone — but I’m different — I look older — 
and I’m Head Boy!” 

“What?” 



Page | 235 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“I am — I’m wearing the badge like Bill used to — and 
I’m holding the House Cup and the Quidditch Cup — 
I’m Quidditch captain, too!” 

Ron tore his eyes away from this splendid sight to 
look excitedly at Harry. 

“Do you think this mirror shows the future?” 

“How can it? All my family are dead — let me have 
another look — ” 

“You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit 
more time.” 

“You’re only holding the Quidditch Cup, what’s 
interesting about that? I want to see my parents.” 

“Don’t push me — ” 

A sudden noise outside in the corridor put an end to 
their discussion. They hadn’t realized how loudly they 
had been talking. 

“Quick!” 

Ron threw the cloak back over them as the luminous 
eyes of Mrs. Norris came round the door. Ron and 
Harry stood quite still, both thinking the same thing 
— did the cloak work on cats? After what seemed an 
age, she turned and left. 

“This isn’t safe — she might have gone for Filch, I bet 
she heard us. Come on.” 

And Ron pulled Harry out of the room. 

The snow still hadn’t melted the next morning. 



Page | 236 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Want to play chess, Harry?” said Ron. 



“No.” 

“Why don’t we go down and visit Hagrid?” 

“No ... you go ...” 

“I know what you’re thinking about, Harry, that 
mirror. Don’t go back tonight.” 

“Why not?” 

“I dunno, I’ve just got a bad feeling about it — and 
anyway, you’ve had too many close shaves already. 
Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris are wandering around. 
So what if they can’t see you? What if they walk into 
you? What if you knock something over?” 

“You sound like Hermione.” 

“I’m serious, Harry, don’t go.” 

But Harry only had one thought in his head, which 
was to get back in front of the mirror, and Ron wasn’t 
going to stop him. 

That third night he found his way more quickly than 
before. He was walking so fast he knew he was 
making more noise than was wise, but he didn’t meet 
anyone. 

And there were his mother and father smiling at him 
again, and one of his grandfathers nodding happily. 
Harry sank down to sit on the floor in front of the 
mirror. There was nothing to stop him from staying 
here all night with his family. Nothing at all. 

Except — 

Page | 237 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“So — back again, Harry?” 

Harry felt as though his insides had turned to ice. He 
looked behind him. Sitting on one of the desks by the 
wall was none other than Albus Dumbledore. Harry 
must have walked straight past him, so desperate to 
get to the mirror he hadn’t noticed him. 

“I — I didn’t see you, sir.” 

“Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make 
you,” said Dumbledore, and Harry was relieved to see 
that he was smiling. 

“So,” said Dumbledore, slipping off the desk to sit on 
the floor with Harry, “you, like hundreds before you, 
have discovered the delights of the Mirror of Erised.” 

“I didn’t know it was called that, sir.” 

“But I expect you’ve realized by now what it does?” 

“It — well — it shows me my family — ” 

“And it showed your friend Ron himself as Head Boy.” 

“How did you know — ?” 

“I don’t need a cloak to become invisible,” said 
Dumbledore gently. “Now, can you think what the 
Mirror of Erised shows us all?” 

Harry shook his head. 

“Let me explain. The happiest man on earth would be 
able to use the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, 
that is, he would look into it and see himself exactly 
as he is. Does that help?” 



Page | 238 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry thought. Then he said slowly, “It shows us 
what we want ... whatever we want ...” 

“Yes and no,” said Dumbledore quietly. “It shows us 
nothing more or less than the deepest, most 
desperate desire of our hearts. You, who have never 
known your family, see them standing around you. 
Ronald Weasley, who has always been overshadowed 
by his brothers, sees himself standing alone, the best 
of all of them. However, this mirror will give us 
neither knowledge or truth. Men have wasted away 
before it, entranced by what they have seen, or been 
driven mad, not knowing if what it shows is real or 
even possible. 

“The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow, 
Harry, and I ask you not to go looking for it again. If 
you ever do run across it, you will now be prepared. It 
does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live, 
remember that. Now, why don’t you put that 
admirable cloak back on and get off to bed?” 

Harry stood up. 

“Sir — Professor Dumbledore? Can I ask you 
something?” 

“Obviously, you’ve just done so,” Dumbledore smiled. 
“You may ask me one more thing, however.” 

“What do you see when you look in the mirror?” 

“I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks.” 

Harry stared. 

“One can never have enough socks,” said 
Dumbledore. “Another Christmas has come and gone 



Page | 239 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




and I didn’t get a single pair. People will insist on 
giving me books.” 

It was only when he was back in bed that it struck 
Harry that Dumbledore might not have been quite 
truthful. But then, he thought, as he shoved 
Scabbers off his pillow, it had been quite a personal 
question. 



Page | 240 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 






NICHOLAS FLAMBL 

Dumbledore had convinced Harry not to go looking 
for the Mirror of Erised again, and for the rest of the 
Christmas holidays the Invisibility Cloak stayed 
folded at the bottom of his trunk. Harry wished he 
could forget what he’d seen in the mirror as easily, 
but he couldn’t. He started having nightmares. Over 
and over again he dreamed about his parents 
disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high 
voice cackled with laughter. 

“You see, Dumbledore was right, that mirror could 
drive you mad,” said Ron, when Harry told him about 
these dreams. 

Hermione, who came back the day before term 
started, took a different view of things. She was torn 
between horror at the idea of Harry being out of bed, 
roaming the school three nights in a row (“If Filch had 
caught you!”), and disappointment that he hadn’t at 
least found out who Nicolas Flamel was. 



Page | 241 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel 
in a library book, even though Harry was still sure 
he’d read the name somewhere. Once term had 
started, they were back to skimming through books 
for ten minutes during their breaks. Harry had even 
less time than the other two, because Quidditch 
practice had started again. 

Wood was working the team harder than ever. Even 
the endless rain that had replaced the snow couldn’t 
dampen his spirits. The Weasleys complained that 
Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry was on 
Wood’s side. If they won their next match, against 
Hufflepuff, they would overtake Slytherin in the 
House Championship for the first time in seven years. 
Quite apart from wanting to win, Harry found that he 
had fewer nightmares when he was tired out after 
training. 

Then, during one particularly wet and muddy practice 
session, Wood gave the team a bit of bad news. He’d 
just gotten very angry with the Weasleys, who kept 
dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off 
their brooms. 

“Will you stop messing around!” he yelled. “That’s 
exactly the sort of thing that’ll lose us the match! 
Snape’s refereeing this time, and he’ll be looking for 
any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!” 

George Weasley really did fall off his broom at these 
words. 

“ Snape’s refereeing?” he spluttered through a 
mouthful of mud. “When’s he ever refereed a 
Quidditch match? He’s not going to be fair if we might 
overtake Slytherin.” 



Page | 242 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




The rest of the team landed next to George to 
complain, too. 

“It’s not my fault,” said Wood. “We’ve just got to make 
sure we play a clean game, so Snape hasn’t got an 
excuse to pick on us.” 

Which was all very well, thought Harry, but he had 
another reason for not wanting Snape near him while 
he was playing Quidditch. ... 

The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another 
as usual at the end of practice, but Harry headed 
straight back to the Gryffindor common room, where 
he found Ron and Hermione playing chess. Chess was 
the only thing Hermione ever lost at, something Harry 
and Ron thought was very good for her. 

“Don’t talk to me for a moment,” said Ron when Harry 
sat down next to him, “I need to concern” He caught 
sight of Harry’s face. “What’s the matter with you? 

You look terrible.” 

Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, 

Harry told the other two about Snape ’s sudden, 
sinister desire to be a Quidditch referee. 

“Don’t play,” said Hermione at once. 

“Say you’re ill,” said Ron. 

“Pretend to break your leg,” Hermione suggested. 

“ Really break your leg,” said Ron. 

“I can’t,” said Harry. “There isn’t a reserve Seeker. If I 
back out, Gryffindor can’t play at all.” 



Page | 243 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




At that moment Neville toppled into the common 
room. How he had managed to climb through the 
portrait hole was anyone’s guess, because his legs 
had been stuck together with what they recognized at 
once as the Leg-Locker Curse. He must have had to 
bunny hop all the way up to Gryffindor Tower. 

Everyone fell over laughing except Hermione, who 
leapt up and performed the countercurse. Neville’s 
legs sprang apart and he got to his feet, trembling. 

“What happened?” Hermione asked him, leading him 
over to sit with Harry and Ron. 

“Malfoy,” said Neville shakily. “I met him outside the 
library. He said he’d been looking for someone to 
practice that on.” 

“Go to Professor McGonagall!” Hermione urged 
Neville. “Report him!” 

Neville shook his head. 

“I don’t want more trouble,” he mumbled. 

“You’ve got to stand up to him, Neville!” said Ron. 
“He’s used to walking all over people, but that’s no 
reason to lie down in front of him and make it easier.” 

“There’s no need to tell me I’m not brave enough to be 
in Gryffindor, Malfoy’s already done that,” Neville 
choked out. 

Harry felt in the pocket of his robes and pulled out a 
Chocolate Frog, the very last one from the box 
Hermione had given him for Christmas. He gave it to 
Neville, who looked as though he might cry. 



Page | 244 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re worth twelve of Malfoy,” Harry said. “The 
Sorting Hat chose you for Gryffindor, didn’t it? And 
where’s Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin.” 

Neville’s lips twitched in a weak smile as he 
unwrapped the frog. 

“Thanks, Harry ... I think I’ll go to bed. ... D’you want 
the card, you collect them, don’t you?” 

As Neville walked away, Harry looked at the Famous 
Wizard card. 

“Dumbledore again,” he said, “He was the first one I 
ever — ” 

He gasped. He stared at the back of the card. Then he 
looked up at Ron and Hermione. 

“I’ve found him\” he whispered. “I’ve found Flamel! I 
told you I’d read the name somewhere before, I read it 
on the train coming here — listen to this: 

‘Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of 
the Dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the 
discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his 
work on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas Flamel’V’ 

Hermione jumped to her feet. She hadn’t looked so 
excited since they’d gotten back the marks for their 
very first piece of homework. 

“Stay there!” she said, and she sprinted up the stairs 
to the girls’ dormitories. Harry and Ron barely had 
time to exchange mystified looks before she was 
dashing back, an enormous old book in her arms. 

“I never thought to look in here!” she whispered 
excitedly. “I got this out of the library weeks ago for a 
bit of light reading.” 

Page | 245 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Light?” said Ron, but Hermione told him to be quiet 
until she’d looked something up, and started flicking 
frantically through the pages, muttering to herself. 

At last she found what she was looking for. 

“I knew it! I knew it!” 

“Are we allowed to speak yet?” said Ron grumpily. 
Hermione ignored him. 

“Nicolas Flamel,” she whispered dramatically, “is the 
only known maker of the Sorcerer’s Stone\” 

This didn’t have quite the effect she’d expected. 

“The what?” said Harry and Ron. 

“Oh, honestly , don’t you two read? Look — read that, 
there.” 

She pushed the book toward them, and Harry and 
Ron read: 

The ancient study of alchemy is concerned with 
making the Sorcerer’s Stone, a legendary substance 
with astonishing powers. The Stone will transform 
any metal into pure gold. It also produces the Elixir of 
Life, which will make the drinker immortal. 

There have been many reports of the Sorcerer’s Stone 
over the centuries, but the only Stone currently in 
existence belongs to Mr. Nicolas Flamel, the noted 
alchemist and opera lover. Mr. Flamel, who celebrated 
his six hundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year, 
enjoys a quiet life in Devon with his wife, Perenelle 
(six hundred and fifty-eight). 



Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“See?” said Hermione, when Harry and Ron had 
finished. “The dog must be guarding Flamel’s 
Sorcerer’s Stone! I bet he asked Dumbledore to keep 
it safe for him, because they’re friends and he knew 
someone was after it, that’s why he wanted the Stone 
moved out of Gringotts!” 

“A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever 
dying!” said Harry. “No wonder Snape’s after it! 

Anyone would want it.” 

“And no wonder we couldn’t find Flamel in that Study 
of Recent Developments in Wizardry,” said Ron. “He’s 
not exactly recent if he’s six hundred and sixty-five, is 
he?” 

The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts, 
while copying down different ways of treating werewolf 
bites, Harry and Ron were still discussing what they’d 
do with a Sorcerer’s Stone if they had one. It wasn’t 
until Ron said he’d buy his own Quidditch team that 
Harry remembered about Snape and the coming 
match. 

“I’m going to play,” he told Ron and Hermione. “If I 
don’t, all the Slytherins will think I’m just too scared 
to face Snape. I’ll show them ... it’ll really wipe the 
smiles off their faces if we win.” 

“Just as long as we’re not wiping you off the field,” 
said Hermione. 

As the match drew nearer, however, Harry became 
more and more nervous, whatever he told Ron and 
Hermione. The rest of the team wasn’t too calm, 
either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the House 
Championship was wonderful, no one had done it for 
seven years, but would they be allowed to, with such 
a biased referee? 

Page | 247 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry didn’t know whether he was imagining it or not, 
but he seemed to keep running into Snape wherever 
he went. At times, he even wondered whether Snape 
was following him, trying to catch him on his own. 
Potions lessons were turning into a sort of weekly 
torture, Snape was so horrible to Harry. Could Snape 
possibly know they’d found out about the Sorcerer’s 
Stone? Harry didn’t see how he could — yet he 
sometimes had the horrible feeling that Snape could 
read minds. 

Harry knew, when they wished him good luck 
outside the locker rooms the next afternoon, that Ron 
and Hermione were wondering whether they’d ever 
see him alive again. This wasn’t what you’d call 
comforting. Harry hardly heard a word of Wood’s pep 
talk as he pulled on his Quidditch robes and picked 
up his Nimbus Two Thousand. 

Ron and Hermione, meanwhile, had found a place in 
the stands next to Neville, who couldn’t understand 
why they looked so grim and worried, or why they had 
both brought their wands to the match. Little did 
Harry know that Ron and Hermione had been secretly 
practicing the Leg-Locker Curse. They’d gotten the 
idea from Malfoy using it on Neville, and were ready 
to use it on Snape if he showed any sign of wanting to 
hurt Harry. 

“Now, don’t forget, it’s Locomotor Mortis,” Hermione 
muttered as Ron slipped his wand up his sleeve. 

“I know,” Ron snapped. “Don’t nag.” 

Back in the locker room, Wood had taken Harry 
aside. 

“Don’t want to pressure you, Potter, but if we ever 
need an early capture of the Snitch it’s now. Finish 

Page | 248 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




the game before Snape can favor Hufflepuff too 
much.” 

“The whole school’s out there!” said Fred Weasley, 
peering out of the door. “Even — blimey — 
Dumbledore’s come to watch!” 

Harry’s heart did a somersault. 

“Dumbledore?” he said, dashing to the door to make 
sure. Fred was right. There was no mistaking that 
silver beard. 

Harry could have laughed out loud with relief. He was 
safe. There was simply no way that Snape would dare 
to try to hurt him if Dumbledore was watching. 

Perhaps that was why Snape was looking so angry as 
the teams marched onto the field, something that Ron 
noticed, too. 

“I’ve never seen Snape look so mean,” he told 
Hermione. “Look — they’re off. Ouch!” 

Someone had poked Ron in the back of the head. It 
was Malfoy. 

“Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn’t see you there.” 

Malfoy grinned broadly at Crabbe and Goyle. 

“Wonder how long Potter’s going to stay on his broom 
this time? Anyone want a bet? What about you, 
Weasley?” 

Ron didn’t answer; Snape had just awarded 
Hufflepuff a penalty because George Weasley had hit 
a Bludger at him. Hermione, who had all her fingers 
crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry, 

Page | 249 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




who was circling the game like a hawk, looking for the 
Snitch. 

“You know how I think they choose people for the 
Gryffindor team?” said Malfoy loudly a few minutes 
later, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another penalty 
for no reason at all. “It’s people they feel sorry for. 

See, there’s Potter, who’s got no parents, then there’s 
the Weasleys, who’ve got no money — you should be 
on the team, Longbottom, you’ve got no brains.” 

Neville went bright red but turned in his seat to face 
Malfoy. 

“I’m worth twelve of you, Malfoy,” he stammered. 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle howled with laughter, but 
Ron, still not daring to take his eyes from the game, 
said, “You tell him, Neville.” 

“Longbottom, if brains were gold you’d be poorer than 
Weasley, and that’s saying something.” 

Ron’s nerves were already stretched to the breaking 
point with anxiety about Harry. 

“I’m warning you, Malfoy — one more word — ” 

“Ron!” said Hermione suddenly, “Harry — !” 

“What? Where?” 

Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, 
which drew gasps and cheers from the crowd. 
Hermione stood up, her crossed fingers in her mouth, 
as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet. 

“You’re in luck, Weasley, Potter’s obviously spotted 
some money on the ground!” said Malfoy. 

Page | 250 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Ron snapped. Before Malfoy knew what was 
happening, Ron was on top of him, wrestling him to 
the ground. Neville hesitated, then clambered over the 
back of his seat to help. 

“Come on, Harry!” Hermione screamed, leaping onto 
her seat to watch as Harry sped straight at Snape — 
she didn’t even notice Malfoy and Ron rolling around 
under her seat, or the scuffles and yelps coming from 
the whirl of fists that was Neville, Crabbe, and Goyle. 

Up in the air, Snape turned on his broomstick just in 
time to see something scarlet shoot past him, missing 
him by inches — the next second, Harry had pulled 
out of the dive, his arm raised in triumph, the Snitch 
clasped in his hand. 

The stands erupted; it had to be a record, no one 
could ever remember the Snitch being caught so 
quickly. 

“Ron! Ron! Where are you? The game’s over! Harry’s 
won! We’ve won! Gryffindor is in the lead!” shrieked 
Hermione, dancing up and down on her seat and 
hugging Parvati Patil in the row in front. 

Harry jumped off his broom, a foot from the ground. 
He couldn’t believe it. He’d done it — the game was 
over; it had barely lasted five minutes. As Gryffindors 
came spilling onto the field, he saw Snape land 
nearby, white-faced and tight-lipped — then Harry felt 
a hand on his shoulder and looked up into 
Dumbledore’s smiling face. 

“Well done,” said Dumbledore quietly, so that only 
Harry could hear. “Nice to see you haven’t been 
brooding about that mirror . . . been keeping busy . . . 
excellent ...” 



Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Snape spat bitterly on the ground. 



Jc Jc Jc 



Harry left the locker room alone some time later, to 
take his Nimbus Two Thousand back to the 
broomshed. He couldn’t ever remember feeling 
