Page | 807Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




through it to find Fred and George hiding just behind 
it, listening to Umbridge’s and Filch’s yells and 
quaking with suppressed mirth. 

“Impressive,” Harry said quietly, grinning. “Very 
impressive ... You’ll put Dr. Filibuster out of business, 
no problem...” 

“Cheers,” whispered George, wiping tears of laughter 
from his face. “Oh, I hope she tries Vanishing them 
next... They multiply by ten every time you try...” 

The fireworks continued to burn and to spread all 
over the school that afternoon. Though they caused 
plenty of disruption, particularly the firecrackers, the 
other teachers did not seem to mind them very much. 

“Dear, dear,” said Professor McGonagall sardonically, 
as one of the dragons soared around her classroom, 
emitting loud bangs and exhaling flame. “Miss Brown, 
would you mind running along to the headmistress 
and informing her that we have an escaped firework 
in our classroom?” 

The upshot of it all was that Professor Umbridge 
spent her first afternoon as headmistress running all 
over the school answering the summonses of the 
other teachers, none of whom seemed able to rid their 
rooms of the fireworks without her. When the final 
bell rang and the students were heading back to 
Gryffindor Tower with their bags, Harry saw, with 
immense satisfaction, a disheveled and soot- 
blackened Umbridge tottering sweaty-faced from 
Professor Flitwick’s classroom. 

“Thank you so much, Professor!” said Professor 
Flitwick in his squeaky little voice. “I could have got 
rid of the sparklers myself, of course, but I wasn’t 
sure whether I had the authority...” 

Page | 808Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Beaming, he closed his classroom door in her snarling 
face. 

Fred and George were heroes that night in the 
Gryffindor common room. Even Hermione fought her 
way through the excited crowd around them to 
congratulate them. 

“They were wonderful fireworks,” she said admiringly. 

“Thanks,” said George, looking both surprised and 
pleased. “Weasleys’ Wildfire Whiz-Bangs. Only thing 
is, we used our whole stock, we’re going to have to 
start again from scratch now...” 

“It was worth it, though,” said Fred, who was taking 
orders from clamoring Gryffindors. “If you want to 
add your name to the waiting list, Hermione, it’s five 
Galleons for your Basic Blaze box and twenty for the 
Deflagration Deluxe...” 

Hermione returned to the table where Harry and Ron 
were sitting staring at their schoolbags as though 
hoping their homework might spring out of it and 
start doing itself. 

“Oh, why don’t we have a night off?” said Hermione 
brightly, as a silver-tailed Weasley rocket zoomed past 
the window. “After all, the Easter holidays start on 
Friday, we’ll have plenty of time then...” 

“Are you feeling all right?” Ron asked, staring at her 
in disbelief. 

“Now you mention it,” said Hermione happily, “d’you 
know ... I think I’m feeling a bit ... rebellious.” 

Harry could still hear the distant bangs of escaped 
firecrackers when he and Ron went up to bed an hour 

Page | 809Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




later, and as he got undressed a sparkler floated past 
the tower, still resolutely spelling out the word POO. 

He got into bed, yawning. With his glasses off, the 
occasional fire-work still passing the window became 
blurred, looking like sparkling clouds, beautiful and 
mysterious against the black sky. He turned onto his 
side, wondering how Umbridge was feeling about her 
first day in Dumbledore’s job, and how Fudge would 
react when he heard that the school had spent most 
of the day in a state of advanced disruption... Smiling 
to himself, he closed his eyes... 

The whizzes and bangs of escaped fireworks in the 
grounds seemed to be growing more distant ... or 
perhaps he, Harry, was simply speeding away from 
them... 

He had fallen right into the corridor leading to the 
Department of Mysteries. He was speeding toward the 
plain black door... Let it open... Let it open... 

It did. He was inside the circular room lined with 
doors... He crossed it, placed his hand upon an 
identical door, and it swung inward... 

Now he was in a long, rectangular room full of an odd, 
mechanical clicking. There were dancing flecks of 
light on the walls but he did not pause to 
investigate... He had to go on... 

There was a door at the far end... It too opened at his 
touch... 

And now he was in a dimly lit room as high and wide 
as a church, full of nothing but rows and rows of 
towering shelves, each laden with small, dusty, spun- 
glass spheres... Now Harry’s heart was beating fast 
with excitement... He knew where to go... He ran 
Page | 810Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




forward, but his footsteps made no noise in the 
enormous, deserted room... 

There was something in this room he wanted very, 
very much... 

Something he wanted... or somebody else wanted... 

His scar was hurting. . . 

BANG! Harry awoke instantly, confused and angry. 
The dark dormitory was full of the sound of laughter. 

“Cool!” said Seamus, who was silhouetted against the 
window. 

“I think one of those Catherine wheels hit a rocket 
and it’s like they mated, come and see!” 

Harry heard Ron and Dean scramble out of bed for a 
better look. He lay quite still and silent while the pain 
in his scar subsided and disappointment washed over 
him. He felt as though a wonderful treat had been 
snatched from him at the very last moment... He had 
got so close that time... 

Glittering, pink-and-silver winged piglets were now 
soaring past the windows of Gryffindor Tower. Harry 
lay and listened to the appreciative whoops of 
Gryffindors in the dormitories below them. His 
stomach gave a sickening jolt as he remembered that 
he had Occlumency the following evening. . . 

Harry spent the whole of the next day dreading what 
Snape was going to say if he found out how much 
farther into the Department of Mysteries he had 
penetrated during his last dream. With a surge of 
guilt he realized that he had not practiced 
Occlumency once since their last lesson: There had 
Page | 811Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




been too much going on since Dumbledore had left. 

He was sure he would not have been able to empty 
his mind even if he had tried. He doubted, however, 
whether Snape would accept that excuse... 

He attempted a little last-minute practice during 
classes that day, but it was no good, Hermione kept 
asking him what was wrong whenever he fell silent 
trying to rid himself of all thought and emotion and, 
after all, the best moment to empty his brain was not 
while teachers were firing review questions at the 
class. 

Resigned to the worst, he set off for Snape ’s office 
after dinner. Halfway across the entrance hall, 
however, Cho came hurrying up to him. 

“Over here,” said Harry, glad of a reason to postpone 
his meeting with Snape and beckoning her across to 
the corner of the entrance hall where the giant 
hourglasses stood. Gryffindor’s was now almost 
empty. “Are you okay? Umbridge hasn’t been asking 
you about the D.A., has she?” 

“Oh no,” said Cho hurriedly. “No, it was only ... Well, I 
just wanted to say ... Harry, I never dreamed Marietta 
would tell...” 

“Yeah, well,” said Harry moodily. He did feel Cho 
might have chosen her friends a bit more carefully. It 
was small consolation that the last he had heard, 
Marietta was still up in the hospital wing and Madam 
Pomfrey had not been able to make the slightest 
improvement to her pimples. 

“She’s a lovely person really,” said Cho. “She just 
made a mistake — ” 



Harry looked at her incredulously. 

Page | 812Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“A lovely person who made a mistake? She sold us all 
out, including you!” 

“Well ... we all got away, didn’t we?” said Cho 
pleadingly. “You know, her mum works for the 
Ministry, it’s really difficult for her — ” 

“Ron’s dad works for the Ministry too!” Harry said 
furiously. “And in case you hadn’t noticed, he hasn’t 
got ‘sneak’ written across his face — ” 

“That was a really horrible trick of Hermione 
Granger’s,” said Cho fiercely. “She should have told 
us she’d jinxed that list — ” 

“I think it was a brilliant idea,” said Harry coldly. Cho 
flushed and her eyes grew brighter. 

“Oh yes, I forgot — of course, if it was darling 
Hermione’s idea — ” 

“Don’t start crying again,” said Harry warningly. 

“I wasn’t going to!” she shouted. 

“Yeah ... well ... good,” he said. “I’ve got enough to 
cope with at the moment.” 

“Go and cope with it then!” she said furiously, turning 
on her heel and stalking off. 

Fuming, Harry descended the stairs to Snape’s 
dungeon, and though he knew from experience how 
much easier it would be for Snape to penetrate his 
mind if he arrived angry and resentful, he succeeded 
in nothing but thinking of a few more good things he 
should have said to Cho about Marietta before 
reaching the dungeon door. 



Page | 813Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re late, Potter,” said Snape coldly, as Harry 
closed the door behind him. 

Snape was standing with his back to Harry, removing, 
as usual, certain of his thoughts and placing them 
carefully in Dumbledore’s Pensieve. He dropped the 
last silvery strand into the stone basin and turned to 
face Harry. 

“So,” he said. “Have you been practicing?” 

“Yes,” Harry lied, looking carefully at one of the legs of 
Snape’s desk. 

“Well, we’ll soon find out, won’t we?” said Snape 
smoothly. “Wand out, Potter.” 

Harry moved into his usual position, facing Snape 
with the desk between them. His heart was pumping 
fast with anger at Cho and anxiety about how much 
Snape was about to extract from his mind. 

“On the count of three then,” said Snape lazily. “One 
— two — ” 

Snape’s office door banged open and Draco Malfoy 
sped in. 

“Professor Snape, sir — oh — sorry — ” 

Malfoy was looking at Snape and Harry in some 
surprise. 

“It’s all right, Draco,” said Snape, lowering his wand. 
“Potter is here for a little Remedial Potions.” 

Harry had not seen Malfoy look so gleeful since 
Umbridge had turned up to inspect Hagrid. 



Page | 814Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I didn’t know,” he said, leering at Harry, who knew 
his face was burning. He would have given a great 
deal to be able to shout the truth at Malfoy — or, even 
better, to hit him with a good curse. 

“Well, Draco, what is it?” asked Snape. 

“It’s Professor Umbridge, sir — she needs your help,” 
said Malfoy. “They’ve found Montague, sir. He’s 
turned up jammed inside a toilet on the fourth floor.” 

“How did he get in there?” demanded Snape. 

“I don’t know, sir, he’s a bit confused...” 

“Very well, very well — Potter,” said Snape, “we shall 
resume this lesson tomorrow evening instead.” 

He turned and swept from his office. Malfoy mouthed 
“Remedial Potions?” at Harry behind Snape ’s back 
before following him. 

Seething, Harry replaced his wand inside his robes 
and made to leave the room. At least he had twenty- 
four more hours in which to practice; he knew he 
ought to feel grateful for the narrow escape, though it 
was hard that it came at the expense of Malfoy telling 
the whole school that he needed Remedial Potions... 

He was at the office door when he saw it: a patch of 
shivering light dancing on the door frame. He 
stopped, looking at it, reminded of something... Then 
he remembered: It was a little like the lights he had 
seen in his dream last night, the lights in the second 
room he had walked through on his journey through 
the Department of Mysteries. 

He turned around. The light was coming from the 
Pensieve sitting on Snape ’s desk. The silver- white 

Page | 815Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




contents were ebbing and swirling within. Snape’s 
thoughts . . . things he did not want Harry to see if he 
broke through Snape’s defenses accidentally... 

Harry gazed at the Pensieve, curiosity welling inside 
him... What was it that Snape was so keen to hide 
from Harry? 

The silvery lights shivered on the wall... Harry took 
two steps toward the desk, thinking hard. Could it 
possibly be information about the Department of 
Mysteries that Snape was determined to keep from 
him? 

Harry looked over his shoulder, his heart now 
pumping harder and faster than ever. How long would 
it take Snape to release Montague from the toilet? 
Would he come straight back to his office afterward, 
or accompany Montague to the hospital wing? Surely 
the latter . . . Montague was Captain of the Slytherin 
Quidditch team, Snape would want to make sure he 
was all right... 

Harry walked the remaining few feet to the Pensieve 
and stood over it, gazing into its depths. He hesitated, 
listening, then pulled out his wand again. The office 
and the corridor beyond were completely silent. He 
gave the contents of the Pensieve a small prod with 
the end of his wand. 

The silvery stuff within began to swirl very fast. Harry 
leaned forward over it and saw that it had become 
transparent. He was, once again, looking down into a 
room as though through a circular window in the 
ceiling... In fact, unless he was much mistaken, he 
was looking down upon the Great Hall... 

His breath was actually fogging the surface of Snape’s 
thoughts... His brain seemed to be in limbo... It would 

Page | 816Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




be insane to do the thing that he was so strongly 
tempted to do... He was trembling... Snape could be 
back at any moment ... but Harry thought of Cho’s 
anger, of Malfoy’s jeering face, and a reckless daring 
seized him. 

He took a great gulp of breath and plunged his face 
into the surface of Snape’s thoughts. At once, the 
floor of the office lurched, tipping Harry headfirst into 
the Pensieve... 

He was falling through cold blackness, spinning 
furiously as he went, and then — 

He was standing in the middle of the Great Hall, but 
the four House tables were gone. Instead there were 
more than a hundred smaller tables, all facing the 
same way, at each of which sat a student, head bent 
low, scribbling on a roll of parchment. The only sound 
was the scratching of quills and the occasional rustle 
as somebody adjusted their parchment. It was clearly 
exam time. 

Sunshine was streaming through the high windows 
onto the bent heads, which shone chestnut and 
copper and gold in the bright light. Harry looked 
around carefully. Snape had to be here somewhere... 
This was his memory. . . 

And there he was, at a table right behind Harry. 

Harry stared. Snape-the-teenager had a stringy, pallid 
look about him, like a plant kept in the dark. His hair 
was lank and greasy and was flopping onto the table, 
his hooked nose barely half an inch from the surface 
of the parchment as he scribbled. Harry moved 
around behind Snape and read the heading of the 
examination paper: 

DEFENSE AGAINST THE DARK ARTS — 

Page | 817Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ORDINARY WIZARDING LEVEL 



So Snape had to be fifteen or sixteen, around Harry’s 
own age. His hand was flying across the parchment; 
he had written at least a foot more than his closest 
neighbors, and yet his writing was minuscule and 
cramped. 

“Five more minutes!” 

The voice made Harry jump; turning, he saw the top 
of Professor Flitwick’s head moving between the desks 
a short distance away. Professor Flitwick was walking 
past a boy with untidy black hair . . . very untidy black 
hair. . . 

Harry moved so quickly that, had he been solid, he 
would have knocked desks flying. Instead he seemed 
to slide, dreamlike, across two aisles and up a third. 
The back of the black-haired boy’s head drew nearer 
and nearer. . . He was straightening up now, putting 
down his quill, pulling his roll of parchment toward 
him so as to reread what he had written... 

Harry stopped in front of the desk and gazed down at 
his fifteen-year- old father. 

Excitement exploded in the pit of his stomach: It was 
as though he was looking at himself but with 
deliberate mistakes. James’s eyes were hazel, his 
nose was slightly longer than Harry’s, and there was 
no scar on his forehead, but they had the same thin 
face, same mouth, same eyebrows. James’s hair 
stuck up at the back exactly as Harry’s did, his hands 
could have been Harry’s, and Harry could tell that 
when James stood up, they would be within an inch 
of each other’s heights. 



Page | 818Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




James yawned hugely and rumpled up his hair, 
making it even messier than it had been. Then, with a 
glance toward Professor Flitwick, he turned in his 
seat and grinned at a boy sitting four seats behind 
him. 

With another shock of excitement, Harry saw Sirius 
give James the thumbs-up. Sirius was lounging in his 
chair at his ease, tilting it back on two legs. He was 
very good-looking; his dark hair fell into his eyes with 
a sort of casual elegance neither James’s nor Harry’s 
could ever have achieved, and a girl sitting behind 
him was eyeing him hopefully, though he didn’t seem 
to have noticed. And two seats along from this girl — 
Harry’s stomach gave another pleasurable squirm — 
was Remus Lupin. He looked rather pale and peaky 
(was the full moon approaching?) and was absorbed 
in the exam: As he reread his answers he scratched 
his chin with the end of his quill, frowning slightly. 

So that meant Wormtail had to be around here 
somewhere too . . . and sure enough, Harry spotted 
him within seconds: a small, mousy-haired boy with a 
pointed nose. Wormtail looked anxious; he was 
chewing his fingernails, staring down at his paper, 
scuffing the ground with his toes. Every now and then 
he glanced hopefully at his neighbor’s paper. Harry 
stared at Wormtail for a moment, then back at 
James, who was now doodling on a bit of scrap 
parchment. He had drawn a Snitch and was now 
tracing the letters L. E. What did they stand for? 

“Quills down, please!” squeaked Professor Flitwick. 
“That means you too, Stebbins! Please remain seated 
while I collect your parchment! Acciol” 

More than a hundred rolls of parchment zoomed into 
the air and into Professor Flitwick’s outstretched 
arms, knocking him backward off his feet. Several 

Page | 819Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




people laughed. A couple of students at the front 
desks got up, took hold of Professor Flitwick beneath 
the elbows, and lifted him onto his feet again. 

“Thank you ... thank you,” panted Professor Flitwick. 
“Very well, everybody, you’re free to go!” 

Harry looked down at his father, who had hastily 
crossed out the L. E. he had been embellishing, 
jumped to his feet, stuffed his quill and the exam 
question paper into his bag, which he slung over his 
back, and stood waiting for Sirius to join him. 

Harry looked around and glimpsed Snape a short way 
away, moving between the tables toward the doors 
into the entrance hall, still absorbed in his own 
examination paper. Round-shouldered yet angular, he 
walked in a twitchy manner that recalled a spider, his 
oily hair swinging about his face. 

A gang of chattering girls separated Snape from 
James and Sirius, and by planting himself in the 
midst of this group, Harry managed to keep Snape in 
sight while straining his ears to catch the voices of 
James and his friends. 

“Did you like question ten, Moony?” asked Sirius as 
they emerged into the entrance hall. 

“Loved it,” said Lupin briskly. “ ‘Give five signs that 
identify the werewolf.’ Excellent question.” 

“D’you think you managed to get all the signs?” said 
James in tones of mock concern. 

“Think I did,” said Lupin seriously, as they joined the 
crowd thronging around the front doors eager to get 
out into the sunlit grounds. “One: He’s sitting on my 



Page | 820Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




chair. Two: He’s wearing my clothes. Three: His 
name’s Remus Lupin ...” 



Wormtail was the only one who didn’t laugh. 

“I got the snout shape, the pupils of the eyes, and the 
tufted tail,” he said anxiously, “but I couldn’t think 
what else — ” 

“How thick are you, Wormtail?” said James 
impatiently. “You run round with a werewolf once a 
month — ” 

“Keep your voice down,” implored Lupin. 

Harry looked anxiously behind him again. Snape 
remained close by, still buried in his examination 
questions; but this was Snape’s memory, and Harry 
was sure that if Snape chose to wander off in a 
different direction once outside in the grounds, he, 
Harry, would not be able to follow James any farther. 
To his intense relief, however, when James and his 
three friends strode off down the lawn toward the 
lake, Snape followed, still poring over the paper and 
apparently with no fixed idea of where he was going. 
By jogging a little ahead of him, Harry managed to 
maintain a close watch on James and the others. 

“Well, I thought that paper was a piece of cake,” he 
heard Sirius say. “I’ll be surprised if I don’t get 
Outstanding on it at least.” 

“Me too,” said James. He put his hand in his pocket 
and took out a struggling Golden Snitch. 

“Where ’d you get that?” 

“Nicked it,” said James casually. He started playing 
with the Snitch, allowing it to fly as much as a foot 

Page | 821Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




away and seizing it again; his reflexes were excellent. 
Wormtail watched him in awe. 

They stopped in the shade of the very same beech tree 
on the edge of the lake where Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione had spent a Sunday finishing their 
homework, and threw themselves down on the grass. 

Harry looked over his shoulder yet again and saw, to 
his delight, that Snape had settled himself on the 
grass in the dense shadows of a clump of bushes. He 
was as deeply immersed in the O.W.L. paper as ever, 
which left Harry free to sit down on the grass between 
the beech and the bushes and watch the foursome 
under the tree. 

The sunlight was dazzling on the smooth surface of 
the lake, on the bank of which the group of laughing 
girls who had just left the Great Hall were sitting with 
shoes and socks off, cooling their feet in the water. 

Lupin had pulled out a book and was reading. Sirius 
stared around at the students milling over the grass, 
looking rather haughty and bored, but very 
handsomely so. James was still playing with the 
Snitch, letting it zoom farther and farther away, 
almost escaping but always grabbed at the last 
second. Wormtail was watching him with his mouth 
open. Every time James made a particularly difficult 
catch, Wormtail gasped and applauded. After five 
minutes of this, Harry wondered why James didn’t 
tell Wormtail to get a grip on himself, but James 
seemed to be enjoying the attention. Harry noticed his 
father had a habit of rumpling up his hair as though 
to make sure it did not get too tidy, and also that he 
kept looking over at the girls by the water’s edge. 

“Put that away, will you?” said Sirius finally, as 
James made a fine catch and Wormtail let out a 

Page | 822Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




cheer. “Before Wormtail wets himself from 
excitement.” 

Wormtail turned slightly pink but James grinned. 

“If it bothers you,” he said, stuffing the Snitch back in 
his pocket. Harry had the distinct impression that 
Sirius was the only one for whom James would have 
stopped showing off. 

“I’m bored,” said Sirius. “Wish it was full moon.” 

“You might,” said Lupin darkly from behind his book. 
“We’ve still got Transfiguration, if you’re bored you 
could test me... Here.” He held out his book. 

Sirius snorted. “I don’t need to look at that rubbish, I 
know it all.” 

“This’ll liven you up, Padfoot,” said James quietly. 
“Look who it is...” 

Sirius’s head turned. He had become very still, like a 
dog that has scented a rabbit. 

“Excellent,” he said softly. “ Snivellus.” 

Harry turned to see what Sirius was looking at. 

Snape was on his feet again, and was stowing the 
O.W.L. paper in his bag. As he emerged from the 
shadows of the bushes and set off across the grass, 
Sirius and James stood up. Lupin and Wormtail 
remained sitting: Lupin was still staring down at his 
book, though his eyes were not moving and a faint 
frown line had appeared between his eyebrows. 
Wormtail was looking from Sirius and James to 
Snape with a look of avid anticipation on his face. 



Page | 823Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“All right, Snivellus?” said James loudly. 



Snape reacted so fast it was as though he had been 
expecting an attack: Dropping his bag, he plunged his 
hand inside his robes, and his wand was halfway into 
the air when James shouted, “ ExpelliarmusV’ 

Snape ’s wand flew twelve feet into the air and fell with 
a little thud in the grass behind him. Sirius let out a 
bark of laughter. 

“ Impedimental ” he said, pointing his wand at Snape, 
who was knocked off his feet, halfway through a dive 
toward his own fallen wand. 

Students all around had turned to watch. Some of 
them had gotten to their feet and were edging nearer 
to watch. Some looked apprehensive, others 
entertained. 

Snape lay panting on the ground. James and Sirius 
advanced on him, wands up, James glancing over his 
shoulder at the girls at the water’s edge as he went. 
Wormtail was on his feet now, watching hungrily, 
edging around Lupin to get a clearer view. 

“How’d the exam go, Snivelly?” said James. 

“I was watching him, his nose was touching the 
parchment,” said Sirius viciously. “There’ll be great 
grease marks all over it, they won’t be able to read a 
word.” 

Several people watching laughed; Snape was clearly 
unpopular. Wormtail sniggered shrilly. Snape was 
trying to get up, but the jinx was still operating on 
him; he was struggling, as though bound by invisible 
ropes. 

Page | 824Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You — wait,” he panted, staring up at James with an 
expression of purest loathing. “You — wait...” 

“Wait for what?” said Sirius coolly. “What’re you going 
to do, Snivelly, wipe your nose on us?” 

Snape let out a stream of mixed swearwords and 
hexes, but his wand being ten feet away nothing 
happened. 

“Wash out your mouth,” said James coldly. 

“ Scourgifyl” 

Pink soap bubbles streamed from Snape’s mouth at 
once; the froth was covering his lips, making him gag, 
choking him — 

“Leave him ALONE!” 

James and Sirius looked around. James’s free hand 
jumped to his hair again. 

It was one of the girls from the lake edge. She had 
thick, dark red hair that fell to her shoulders and 
startlingly green almond-shaped eyes — Harry’s eyes. 

Harry’s mother ... 

“All right, Evans?” said James, and the tone of his 
voice was suddenly pleasant, deeper, more mature. 

“Leave him alone,” Lily repeated. She was looking at 
James with every sign of great dislike. “What’s he 
done to you?” 

“Well,” said James, appearing to deliberate the point, 
“it’s more the fact that he exists, if you know what I 
mean...” 



Page | 825Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Many of the surrounding watchers laughed, Sirius 
and Wormtail included, but Lupin, still apparently 
intent on his book, didn’t, and neither did Lily. 

“You think you’re funny,” she said coldly. “But you’re 
just an arrogant, bullying toerag, Potter. Leave him 
alone.” 

“I will if you go out with me, Evans,” said James 
quickly. “Go on ... Go out with me, and I’ll never lay a 
wand on old Snivelly again.” 

Behind him, the Impediment Jinx was wearing off. 
Snape was beginning to inch toward his fallen wand, 
spitting out soapsuds as he crawled. 

“I wouldn’t go out with you if it was a choice between 
you and the giant squid,” said Lily. 

“Bad luck, Prongs,” said Sirius briskly, turning back 
to Snape. “OY!” 

But too late; Snape had directed his wand straight at 
James; there was a flash of light and a gash appeared 
on the side of James’s face, spattering his robes with 
blood. James whirled about; a second flash of light 
later, Snape was hanging upside down in the air, his 
robes falling over his head to reveal skinny, pallid legs 
and a pair of graying underpants. 

Many people in the small crowd watching cheered. 
Sirius, James, and Wormtail roared with laughter. 

Lily, whose furious expression had twitched for an 
instant as though she was going to smile, said, “Let 
him down!” 

“Certainly,” said James and he jerked his wand 
upward. Snape fell into a crumpled heap on the 

Page | 826Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ground. Disentangling himself from his robes, he got 
quickly to his feet, wand up, but Sirius said, 

“Petrificus Totalusl” and Snape keeled over again at 
once, rigid as a board. 

“LEAVE HIM ALONE!” Lily shouted. She had her own 
wand out now. James and Sirius eyed it warily. 

“Ah, Evans, don’t make me hex you,” said James 
earnestly. 

“Take the curse off him, then!” 

James sighed deeply, then turned to Snape and 
muttered the countercurse. 

“There you go,” he said, as Snape struggled to his feet 
again, “you’re lucky Evans was here, Snivellus — ” 

“I don’t need help from filthy little Mudbloods like 
her!” 

Lily blinked. “Fine,” she said coolly. “I won’t bother in 
future. And I’d wash your pants if I were you, 
Snivellus.” 

“Apologize to Evans!” James roared at Snape, his 
wand pointed threateningly at him. 

“I don’t want you to make him apologize,” Lily 
shouted, rounding on James. “You’re as bad as he 
is...” 

“What?” yelped James. “I’d NEVER call you a — you- 
know-what!” 

“Messing up your hair because you think it looks cool 
to look like you’ve just got off your broomstick, 
showing off with that stupid Snitch, walking down 

Page | 827Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




corridors and hexing anyone who annoys you just 
because you can — I’m surprised your broomstick 
can get off the ground with that fat head on it. You 
make me SICK.” 

She turned on her heel and hurried away. 

“Evans!” James shouted after her, “Hey, EVANS!” 

But she didn’t look back. 

“What is it with her?” said James, trying and failing to 
look as though this was a throwaway question of no 
real importance to him. 

“Reading between the lines, I’d say she thinks you’re 
a bit conceited, mate,” said Sirius. 

“Right,” said James, who looked furious now, “right — 



There was another flash of light, and Snape was once 
again hanging upside down in the air. 

“Who wants to see me take off Snivelly’s pants?” 

But whether James really did take off Snape’s pants, 
Harry never found out. A hand had closed tight over 
his upper arm, closed with a pincerlike grip. Wincing, 
Harry looked around to see who had hold of him, and 
saw, with a thrill of horror, a fully grown, adult-sized 
Snape standing right beside him, white with rage. 

“Having fun?” 

Harry felt himself rising into the air. The summer’s 
day evaporated around him, he was floating upward 
through icy blackness, Snape’s hand still tight upon 
his upper arm. Then, with a swooping feeling as 

Page | 828Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




though he had turned head over heels in midair, his 
feet hit the stone floor of Snape’s dungeon, and he 
was standing again beside the Pensieve on Snape’s 
desk in the shadowy, present-day Potions master’s 
study. 

“So,” said Snape, gripping Harry’s arm so tightly 
Harry’s hand was starting to feel numb. “So ... been 
enjoying yourself, Potter?” 

“N-no ...” said Harry, trying to free his arm. 

It was scary: Snape’s lips were shaking, his face was 
white, his teeth were bared. 

“Amusing man, your father, wasn’t he?” said Snape, 
shaking Harry so hard that his glasses slipped down 
his nose. 

“I — didn’t — ” 

Snape threw Harry from him with all his might. Harry 
fell hard onto the dungeon floor. 

“You will not tell anybody what you saw!” Snape 
bellowed. 

“No,” said Harry, getting to his feet as far from Snape 
as he could. “No, of course I w — ” 

“Get out, get out, I don’t want to see you in this office 
ever again!” 

And as Harry hurtled toward the door, ajar of dead 
cockroaches exploded over his head. He wrenched the 
