I can see the sheen of sweat on Delly's forehead as
she tries to work around the question. "It was bad. No
one...could stay," she says haltingly.
"Hang in there, girl," says Haymitch.
"But I know you're going to like it here, Peeta. The
people have been really nice to us. There's always food
and clean clothes, and school's much more interesting,"
says Delly.
"Why hasn't my family come to see me?" Peeta asks.
"They can't." Delly's tearing up again. "A lot of people
didn't get out of Twelve. So we'll need to make a new life
here. I'm sure they could use a good baker. Do you
remember when your father used to let us make dough girls
and boys?"
"There was a fire," Peeta says suddenly.
"Yes," she whispers.
"Twelve burned down, didn't it? Because of her," says
Peeta angrily. "Because of Katniss!" He begins to pull on
the restraints.
"Oh, no, Peeta. It wasn't her fault," says Delly.
"Did she tell you that?" he hisses at her.
"Get her out of there," says Plutarch. The door opens
immediately and Delly begins to back toward it slowly.
"She didn't have to. I was--" Delly begins.
"Because she's lying! She's a liar! You can't believe
anything she says! She's some kind of mutt the Capitol
created to use against the rest of us!" Peeta shouts.
"No, Peeta. She's not a--" Delly tries again.
"Don't trust her, Delly," says Peeta in a frantic voice. "I
did, and she tried to kill me. She killed my friends. My
family. Don't even go near her! She's a mutt!"
A hand reaches through the doorway, pulls Delly out,
and the door swings shut. But Peeta keeps yelling. "A mutt!
She's a stinking mutt!"
Not only does he hate me and want to kill me, he no
longer believes I'm human. It was less painful being
strangled.
Around me the recovery team members scribble like
crazy, taking down every word. Haymitch and Plutarch grab
my arms and propel me out of the room. They lean me up
against a wall in the silent hallway. But I know Peeta
continues to scream behind the door and the glass.
Prim was wrong. Peeta is irretrievable. "I can't stay
here anymore," I say numbly. "If you want me to be the
Mockingjay, you'll have to send me away."
"Where do you want to go?" asks Haymitch.
"The Capitol." It's the only place I can think of where I
have a job to do.
"Can't do it," Plutarch says. "Not until all the districts
are secure. Good news is, the fighting's almost over in all of
them but Two. It's a tough nut to crack, though."
That's right. First the districts. Next the Capitol. And
then I hunt down Snow.
"Fine," I say. "Send me to Two."
14
District 2 is a large district, as one might expect,
composed of a series of villages spread across the
mountains. Each was originally associated with a mine or
quarry, although now, many are devoted to the housing and
training of Peacekeepers. None of this would present much
of a challenge, since the rebels have 13's airpower on their
side, except for one thing: At the center of the district is a
virtually impenetrable mountain that houses the heart of the
Capitol's military.
We've nicknamed the mountain the Nut since I relayed
Plutarch's "tough nut to crack" comment to the weary and
discouraged rebel leaders here. The Nut was established
directly after the Dark Days, when the Capitol had lost 13
and was desperate for a new underground stronghold. They
had some of their military resources situated on the
outskirts of the Capitol itself--nuclear missiles, aircraft,
troops--but a significant chunk of their power was now
under an enemy's control. Of course, there was no way they
could hope to replicate 13, which was the work of centuries.
However, in the old mines of nearby District 2, they saw
opportunity. From the air, the Nut appeared to be just
another mountain with a few entrances on its faces. But
inside were vast cavernous spaces where slabs of stones
had been cut, hauled to the surface, and transported down
slippery narrow roads to make distant buildings. There was
even a train system to facilitate transporting the miners
from the Nut to the very center of the main town in District 2.
It ran right to the square that Peeta and I visited during the
Victory Tour, standing on the wide marble steps of the
Justice Building, trying not to look too closely at Cato's and
Clove's grieving families assembled below us.
It was not the most ideal terrain, plagued as it was by
mudslides, floods, and avalanches. But the advantages
outweighed the concerns. As they'd cut deep into the
mountain, the miners had left large pillars and walls of stone
to support the infrastructure. The Capitol reinforced these
and set about making the mountain their new military base.
Filling it with computer banks and meeting rooms, barracks
and arsenals. Widening entrances to allow the exit of
hovercraft from the hangar, installing missile launchers. But
on the whole, leaving the exterior of the mountain largely
unchanged. A rough, rocky tangle of trees and wildlife. A
natural fortress to protect them from their enemies.
By the other districts' standards, the Capitol babied
the inhabitants here. Just by looking at the District 2 rebels,
you can tell they were decently fed and cared for in
childhood. Some did end up as quarry and mine workers.
Others were educated for jobs in the Nut or funneled into
the ranks of Peacekeepers. Trained young and hard for
combat. The Hunger Games were an opportunity for wealth
and a kind of glory not seen elsewhere. Of course, the
people of 2 swallowed the Capitol's propaganda more
easily than the rest of us. Embraced their ways. But for all
that, at the end of the day, they were still slaves. And if that
was lost on the citizens who became Peacekeepers or
worked in the Nut, it was not lost on the stonecutters who
formed the backbone of the resistance here.
Things stand as they did when I arrived two weeks
ago. The outer villages are in rebel hands, the town divided,
and the Nut is as untouchable as ever. Its few entrances
heavily fortified, its heart safely enfolded in the mountain.
While every other district has now wrested control from the
Capitol, 2 remains in its pocket.
Each day, I do whatever I can to help. Visit the
wounded. Tape short propos with my camera crew. I'm not
allowed in actual combat, but they invite me to the meetings
on the status of the war, which is a lot more than they did in
13. It's much better here. Freer, no schedules on my arm,
fewer demands on my time. I live aboveground in the rebel
villages or surrounding caves. For safety's sake, I'm
relocated often. During the day, I've been given clearance
to hunt as long as I take a guard along and don't stray too
far. In the thin, cold mountain air, I feel some physical
strength returning, my mind clearing away the rest of the
fogginess. But with this mental clarity comes an even
sharper awareness of what has been done to Peeta.
Snow has stolen him from me, twisted him beyond
recognition, and made me a present of him. Boggs, who
came to 2 when I did, told me that even with all the plotting,
it was a little too easy to rescue Peeta. He believes if 13
hadn't made the effort, Peeta would've been delivered to
me anyway. Dropped off in an actively warring district or
perhaps 13 itself. Tied up with ribbons and tagged with my
name. Programmed to murder me.
It's only now that he's been corrupted that I can fully
appreciate the real Peeta. Even more than I would've if he'd
died. The kindness, the steadiness, the warmth that had an
unexpected heat behind it. Outside of Prim, my mother, and
Gale, how many people in the world love me
unconditionally? I think in my case, the answer may now be
none. Sometimes when I'm alone, I take the pearl from
where it lives in my pocket and try to remember the boy with
the bread, the strong arms that warded off nightmares on
the train, the kisses in the arena. To make myself put a
name to the thing I've lost. But what's the use? It's gone.
He's gone. Whatever existed between us is gone. All that's
left is my promise to kill Snow. I tell myself this ten times a
day.
Back in 13, Peeta's rehabilitation continues. Even
though I don't ask, Plutarch gives me cheerful updates on
the phone like "Good news, Katniss! I think we've almost
got him convinced you're not a mutt!" Or "Today he was
allowed to feed himself pudding!"
When Haymitch gets on after, he admits Peeta's no
better. The only dubious ray of hope has come from my
sister. "Prim came up with the idea of trying to hijack him
back," Haymitch tells me. "Bring up the distorted memories
of you and then give him a big dose of a calming drug, like
morphling. We've only tried it on one memory. The tape of
the two of you in the cave, when you told him that story
about getting Prim the goat."
"Any improvement?" I ask.
"Well, if extreme confusion is an improvement over
extreme terror, then yes," says Haymitch. "But I'm not sure it
is. He lost the ability to speak for several hours. Went into
some sort of stupor. When he came out, the only thing he
asked about was the goat."
"Right," I say.
"How's it out there?" he asks.
"No forward motion," I tell him.
"We're sending out a team to help with the mountain.
Beetee and some of the others," he says. "You know, the
brains."
When the brains are selected, I'm not surprised to see
Gale's name on the list. I thought Beetee would bring him,
not for his technological expertise, but in the hopes that he
could somehow think of a way to ensnare a mountain.
Originally, Gale offered to come with me to 2, but I could
see I was tearing him away from his work with Beetee. I told
him to sit tight and stay where he was most needed. I didn't
tell him his presence would make it even more difficult for
me to mourn Peeta.
Gale finds me when they arrive late one afternoon. I'm
sitting on a log at the edge of my current village, plucking a
goose. A dozen or so of the birds are piled at my feet.
Great flocks of them have been migrating through here
since I've arrived, and the pickings are easy. Without a
word, Gale settles beside me and begins to relieve a bird
of its feathers. We're through about half when he says, "Any
chance we'll get to eat these?"
"Yeah. Most go to the camp kitchen, but they expect
me to give a couple to whoever I'm staying with tonight," I
say. "For keeping me."
"Isn't the honor of the thing enough?" he says.
"You'd think," I reply. "But word's gotten out that
mockingjays are hazardous to your health."
We pluck in silence for a while longer. Then he says, "I
saw Peeta yesterday. Through the glass."
"What'd you think?" I ask.
"Something selfish," says Gale.
"That you don't have to be jealous of him anymore?"
My fingers give a yank, and a cloud of feathers floats down
around us.
"No. Just the opposite." Gale pulls a feather out of my
hair. "I thought...I'll never compete with that. No matter how
much pain I'm in." He spins the feather between his thumb
and forefinger. "I don't stand a chance if he doesn't get
better. You'll never be able to let him go. You'll always feel
wrong about being with me."
"The way I always felt wrong kissing him because of
you," I say.
Gale holds my gaze. "If I thought that was true, I could
almost live with the rest of it."
"It is true," I admit. "But so is what you said about
Peeta."
Gale makes a sound of exasperation. Nonetheless,
after we've dropped off the birds and volunteered to go
back to the woods to gather kindling for the evening fire, I
find myself wrapped in his arms. His lips brushing the faded
bruises on my neck, working their way to my mouth.
Despite what I feel for Peeta, this is when I accept deep
down that he'll never come back to me. Or I'll never go back
to him. I'll stay in 2 until it falls, go to the Capitol and kill
Snow, and then die for my trouble. And he'll die insane and
hating me. So in the fading light I shut my eyes and kiss
Gale to make up for all the kisses I've withheld, and
because it doesn't matter anymore, and because I'm so
desperately lonely I can't stand it.
Gale's touch and taste and heat remind me that at
least my body's still alive, and for the moment it's a
welcome feeling. I empty my mind and let the sensations
run through my flesh, happy to lose myself. When Gale pulls
away slightly, I move forward to close the gap, but I feel his
hand under my chin. "Katniss," he says. The instant I open
my eyes, the world seems disjointed. This is not our woods
or our mountains or our way. My hand automatically goes to
the scar on my left temple, which I associate with confusion.
"Now kiss me." Bewildered, unblinking, I stand there while
he leans in and presses his lips to mine briefly. He
examines my face closely. "What's going on in your head?"
"I don't know," I whisper back.
"Then it's like kissing someone who's drunk. It doesn't
count," he says with a weak attempt at a laugh. He scoops
up a pile of kindling and drops it in my empty arms,
returning me to myself.
"How do you know?" I say, mostly to cover my
embarrassment. "Have you kissed someone who's drunk?"
I guess Gale could've been kissing girls right and left back
in 12. He certainly had enough takers. I never thought about
it much before.
He just shakes his head. "No. But it's not hard to
imagine."
"So, you never kissed any other girls?" I ask.
"I didn't say that. You know, you were only twelve when
we met. And a real pain besides. I did have a life outside of
hunting with you," he says, loading up with firewood.
Suddenly, I'm genuinely curious. "Who did you kiss?
And where?"
"Too many to remember. Behind the school, on the
slag heap, you name it," he says.
I roll my eyes. "So when did I become so special?
When they carted me off to the Capitol?"
"No. About six months before that. Right after New
Year's. We were in the Hob, eating some slop of Greasy
Sae's. And Darius was teasing you about trading a rabbit
for one of his kisses. And I realized...I minded," he tells me.
I remember that day. Bitter cold and dark by four in the
afternoon. We'd been hunting, but a heavy snow had driven
us back into town. The Hob was crowded with people
looking for refuge from the weather. Greasy Sae's soup,
made with stock from the bones of a wild dog we'd shot a
week earlier, was below her usual standards. Still, it was
hot, and I was starving as I scooped it up, sitting crosslegged
on her counter. Darius was leaning on the post of
the stall, tickling my cheek with the end of my braid, while I
smacked his hand away. He was explaining why one of his
kisses merited a rabbit, or possibly two, since everyone
knows redheaded men are the most virile. And Greasy Sae
and I were laughing because he was so ridiculous and
persistent and kept pointing out women around the Hob
who he said had paid far more than a rabbit to enjoy his
lips. "See? The one in the green muffler? Go ahead and
ask her. If you need a reference."
A million miles from here, a billion days ago, this
happened. "Darius was just joking around," I say.
"Probably. Although you'd be the last to figure out if he
wasn't," Gale tells me. "Take Peeta. Take me. Or even
Finnick. I was starting to worry he had his eye on you, but
he seems back on track now."
"You don't know Finnick if you think he'd love me," I
say.
Gale shrugs. "I know he was desperate. That makes
people do all kinds of crazy things."
I can't help thinking that's directed at me.
Bright and early the next morning, the brains assemble
to take on the problem of the Nut. I'm asked to the meeting,
although I don't have much to contribute. I avoid the
conference table and perch in the wide windowsill that has
a view of the mountain in question. The commander from 2,
a middle-aged woman named Lyme, takes us on a virtual
tour of the Nut, its interior and fortifications, and recounts
the failed attempts to seize it. I've crossed paths with her
briefly a couple of times since my arrival, and was dogged
by the feeling I'd met her before. She's memorable enough,
standing over six feet tall and heavily muscled. But it's only
when I see a clip of her in the field, leading a raid on the
main entrance of the Nut, that something clicks and I realize
I'm in the presence of another victor. Lyme, the tribute from
District 2, who won her Hunger Games over a generation
ago. Effie sent us her tape, among others, to prepare for
the Quarter Quell. I've probably caught glimpses of her
during the Games over the years, but she's kept a low
profile. With my newfound knowledge of Haymitch's and
Finnick's treatment, all I can think is: What did the Capitol
do to her after she won?
When Lyme finishes the presentation, the questions
from the brains begin. Hours pass, and lunch comes and
goes, as they try to come up with a realistic plan for taking
the Nut. But while Beetee thinks he might be able to
override certain computer systems, and there's some
discussion of putting the handful of internal spies to use, no
one has any really innovative thoughts. As the afternoon
wears on, talk keeps returning to a strategy that has been
tried repeatedly--the storming of the entrances. I can see
Lyme's frustration building because so many variations of
this plan have already failed, so many of her soldiers have
been lost. Finally, she bursts out, "The next person who
suggests we take the entrances better have a brilliant way
to do it, because you're going to be the one leading that
mission!"
Gale, who is too restless to sit at the table for more
than a few hours, has been alternating between pacing and
sharing my windowsill. Early on, he seemed to accept
Lyme's assertion that the entrances couldn't be taken, and
dropped out of the conversation entirely. For the last hour or
so, he's sat quietly, his brow knitted in concentration,
staring at the Nut through the window glass. In the silence
that follows Lyme's ultimatum, he speaks up. "Is it really so
necessary that we take the Nut? Or would it be enough to
disable it?"
"That would be a step in the right direction," says
Beetee. "What do you have in mind?"
"Think of it as a wild dog den," Gale continues. "You're
not going to fight your way in. So you have two choices.
Trap the dogs inside or flush them out."
"We've tried bombing the entrances," says Lyme.
"They're set too far inside the stone for any real damage to
be done."
"I wasn't thinking of that," says Gale. "I was thinking of
using the mountain." Beetee rises and joins Gale at the
window, peering through his ill-fitting glasses. "See?
Running down the sides?"
"Avalanche paths," says Beetee under his breath. "It'd
be tricky. We'd have to design the detonation sequence
with great care, and once it's in motion, we couldn't hope to
control it."
"We don't need to control it if we give up the idea that
we have to possess the Nut," says Gale. "Only shut it
down."
"So you're suggesting we start avalanches and block
the entrances?" asks Lyme.
"That's it," says Gale. "Trap the enemy inside, cut off
from supplies. Make it impossible for them to send out their
hovercraft."
While everyone considers the plan, Boggs flips
through a stack of blueprints of the Nut and frowns. "You
risk killing everyone inside. Look at the ventilation system.
It's rudimentary at best. Nothing like what we have in
Thirteen. It depends entirely on pumping in air from the
mountainsides. Block those vents and you'll suffocate
whoever is trapped."
"They could still escape through the train tunnel to the
square," says Beetee.
"Not if we blow it up," says Gale brusquely. His intent,
his full intent, becomes clear. Gale has no interest in
preserving the lives of those in the Nut. No interest in
caging the prey for later use.
This is one of his death traps.
15
The implications of what Gale is suggesting settle
quietly around the room. You can see the reaction playing
out on people's faces. The expressions range from
pleasure to distress, from sorrow to satisfaction.
"The majority of the workers are citizens from Two,"
says Beetee neutrally.
"So what?" says Gale. "We'll never be able to trust
them again."
"They should at least have a chance to surrender,"
says Lyme.
"Well, that's a luxury we weren't given when they firebombed
Twelve, but you're all so much cozier with the
Capitol here," says Gale. By the look on Lyme's face, I think
she might shoot him, or at least take a swing. She'd
probably have the upper hand, too, with all her training. But
her anger only seems to infuriate him and he yells, "We
watched children burn to death and there was nothing we
could do!"
I have to close my eyes a minute, as the image rips
through me. It has the desired effect. I want everyone in that
mountain dead. Am about to say so. But then...I'm also a
girl from District 12. Not President Snow. I can't help it. I
can't condemn someone to the death he's suggesting.
"Gale," I say, taking his arm and trying to speak in a
reasonable tone. "The Nut's an old mine. It'd be like
causing a massive coal mining accident." Surely the words
are enough to make anyone from 12 think twice about the
plan.
"But not so quick as the one that killed our fathers," he
retorts. "Is that everyone's problem? That our enemies
might have a few hours to reflect on the fact that they're
dying, instead of just being blown to bits?"
Back in the old days, when we were nothing more than
a couple of kids hunting outside of 12, Gale said things like
this and worse. But then they were just words. Here, put into
practice, they become deeds that can never be reversed.
"You don't know how those District Two people ended
up in the Nut," I say. "They may have been coerced. They
may be held against their will. Some are our own spies. Will
you kill them, too?"
"I would sacrifice a few, yes, to take out the rest of
them," he replies. "And if I were a spy in there, I'd say,
'Bring on the avalanches!'"
I know he's telling the truth. That Gale would sacrifice
his life in this way for the cause--no one doubts it. Perhaps
we'd all do the same if we were the spies and given the
choice. I guess I would. But it's a coldhearted decision to
make for other people and those who love them.
"You said we had two choices," Boggs tells him. "To
trap them or to flush them out. I say we try to avalanche the
mountain but leave the train tunnel alone. People can
escape into the square, where we'll be waiting for them."
"Heavily armed, I hope," says Gale. "You can be sure
they'll be."
"Heavily armed. We'll take them prisoner," agrees
Boggs.
"Let's bring Thirteen into the loop now," Beetee
suggests. "Let President Coin weigh in."
"She'll want to block the tunnel," says Gale with
conviction.
"Yes, most likely. But you know, Peeta did have a point
in his propos. About the dangers of killing ourselves off. I've
been playing with some numbers. Factoring in the
casualties and the wounded and...I think it's at least worth a
conversation," says Beetee.
Only a handful of people are invited to be part of that
conversation. Gale and I are released with the rest. I take
him hunting so he can blow off some steam, but he's not
talking about it. Probably too angry with me for countering
him.
The call does happen, a decision is made, and by
evening I'm suited up in my Mockingjay outfit, with my bow
slung over my shoulder and an earpiece that connects me
to Haymitch in 13--just in case a good opportunity for a
propo arises. We wait on the roof of the Justice Building
with a clear view of our target.
Our hoverplanes are initially ignored by the
commanders in the Nut, because in the past they've been
little more trouble than flies buzzing around a honeypot. But
after two rounds of bombings in the higher elevations of the
mountain, the planes have their attention. By the time the
Capitol's antiaircraft weapons begin to fire, it's already too
late.
Gale's plan exceeds anyone's expectations. Beetee
was right about being unable to control the avalanches
once they'd been set in motion. The mountainsides are
naturally unstable, but weakened by the explosions, they
seem almost fluid. Whole sections of the Nut collapse
before our eyes, obliterating any sign that human beings
have ever set foot on the place. We stand speechless, tiny
and insignificant, as waves of stone thunder down the
mountain. Burying the entrances under tons of rock. Raising
a cloud of dirt and debris that blackens the sky. Turning the
Nut into a tomb.
I imagine the hell inside the mountain. Sirens wailing.
Lights flickering into darkness. Stone dust choking the air.
The shrieks of panicked, trapped beings stumbling madly
for a way out, only to find the entrances, the launchpad, the
ventilation shafts themselves clogged with earth and rock
trying to force its way in. Live wires flung free, fires breaking
out, rubble making a familiar path a maze. People
slamming, shoving, scrambling like ants as the hill presses
in, threatening to crush their fragile shells.
"Katniss?" Haymitch's voice is in my earpiece. I try to
answer back and find both of my hands are clamped tightly
over my mouth. "Katniss!"
On the day my father died, the sirens went off during
my school lunch. No one waited for dismissal, or was
expected to. The response to a mine accident was
something outside the control of even the Capitol. I ran to
Prim's class. I still remember her, tiny at seven, very pale,
but sitting straight up with her hands folded on her desk.
Waiting for me to collect her as I'd promised I would if the
sirens ever sounded. She sprang out of her seat, grabbed
my coat sleeve, and we wove through the streams of
people pouring out onto the streets to pool at the main
entrance of the mine. We found our mother clenching the
rope that had been hastily strung to keep the crowd back. In
retrospect, I guess I should have known there was a
problem right then. Because why were we looking for her,
when the reverse should have been true?
The elevators were screeching, burning up and down
their cables as they vomited smoke-blackened miners into
the light of day. With each group came cries of relief,
relatives diving under the rope to lead off their husbands,
wives, children, parents, siblings. We stood in the freezing
air as the afternoon turned overcast, a light snow dusted the
earth. The elevators moved more slowly now and
disgorged fewer beings. I knelt on the ground and pressed
my hands into the cinders, wanting so badly to pull my
father free. If there's a more helpless feeling than trying to
reach someone you love who's trapped underground, I don't
know it. The wounded. The bodies. The waiting through the
night. Blankets put around your shoulders by strangers. A
mug of something hot that you don't drink. And then finally,
at dawn, the grieved expression on the face of the mine
captain that could only mean one thing.
What did we just do?
"Katniss! Are you there?" Haymitch is probably
making plans to have me fitted for a head shackle at this
very moment.
I drop my hands. "Yes."
"Get inside. Just in case the Capitol tries to retaliate
with what's left of its air force," he instructs.
"Yes," I repeat. Everyone on the roof, except for the
soldiers manning the machine guns, begin to make their
way inside. As I descend the stairs, I can't help brushing my
fingers along the unblemished white marble walls. So cold
and beautiful. Even in the Capitol, there's nothing to match
the magnificence of this old building. But there is no give to
the surface--only my flesh yields, my warmth taken. Stone
conquers people every time.
I sit at the base of one of the gigantic pillars in the
great entrance hall. Through the doors I can see the white
expanse of marble that leads to the steps on the square. I
remember how sick I was the day Peeta and I accepted
congratulations there for winning the Games. Worn down by
the Victory Tour, failing in my attempt to calm the districts,
facing the memories of Clove and Cato, particularly Cato's
gruesome, slow death by mutts.
Boggs crouches down beside me, his skin pale in the
shadows. "We didn't bomb the train tunnel, you know.
Some of them will probably get out."
"And then we'll shoot them when they show their
faces?" I ask.
"Only if we have to," he answers.
"We could send in trains ourselves. Help evacuate the
wounded," I say.
"No. It was decided to leave the tunnel in their hands.
That way they can use all the tracks to bring people out,"
says Boggs. "Besides, it will give us time to get the rest of
our soldiers to the square."
A few hours ago, the square was a no-man's-land, the
front line of the fight between the rebels and the
Peacekeepers. When Coin gave approval for Gale's plan,
the rebels launched a heated attack and drove the Capitol
forces back several blocks so that we would control the
train station in the event that the Nut fell. Well, it's fallen. The
reality has sunk in. Any survivors will escape to the square. I
can hear the gunfire starting again, as the Peacekeepers
are no doubt trying to fight their way in to rescue their
comrades. Our own soldiers are being brought in to counter
this.
"You're cold," says Boggs. "I'll see if I can find a
blanket." He goes before I can protest. I don't want a
blanket, even if the marble continues to leech my body heat.
"Katniss," says Haymitch in my ear.
"Still here," I answer.
"Interesting turn of events with Peeta this afternoon.
Thought you'd want to know," he says. Interesting isn't
good. It isn't better. But I don't really have any choice but to
listen. "We showed him that clip of you singing 'The
Hanging Tree.' It was never aired, so the Capitol couldn't
use it when he was being hijacked. He says he recognized
the song."
For a moment, my heart skips a beat. Then I realize it's
just more tracker jacker serum confusion. "He couldn't,
Haymitch. He never heard me sing that song."
"Not you. Your father. He heard him singing it one day
when he came to trade at the bakery. Peeta was small,
probably six or seven, but he remembered it because he
was specially listening to see if the birds stopped singing,"
says Haymitch. "Guess they did."
Six or seven. That would have been before my mother
banned the song. Maybe even right around the time I was
learning it. "Was I there, too?"
"Don't think so. No mention of you anyway. But it's the
first connection to you that hasn't triggered some mental
meltdown," says Haymitch. "It's something, at least,
Katniss."
My father. He seems to be everywhere today. Dying in
the mine. Singing his way into Peeta's muddled
consciousness. Flickering in the look Boggs gives me as
he protectively wraps the blanket around my shoulders. I
miss him so badly it hurts.
The gunfire's really picking up outside. Gale hurries by
with a group of rebels, eagerly headed for the battle. I don't
petition to join the fighters, not that they would let me. I have
no stomach for it anyway, no heat in my blood. I wish Peeta
was here--the old Peeta--because he would be able to
articulate why it is so wrong to be exchanging fire when
people, any people, are trying to claw their way out of the
mountain. Or is my own history making me too sensitive?
Aren't we at war? Isn't this just another way to kill our
enemies?
Night falls quickly. Huge, bright spotlights are turned
on, illuminating the square. Every bulb must be burning at
full wattage inside the train station as well. Even from my
position across the square, I can see clearly through the
plate-glass front of the long, narrow building. It would be
impossible to miss the arrival of a train, or even a single
person. But hours pass and no one comes. With each
minute, it becomes harder to imagine that anyone survived
the assault on the Nut.
It's well after midnight when Cressida comes to attach
a special microphone to my costume. "What's this for?" I
ask.
Haymitch's voice comes on to explain. "I know you're
not going to like this, but we need you to make a speech."
"A speech?" I say, immediately feeling queasy.
"I'll feed it to you, line by line," he assures me. "You'll
just have to repeat what I say. Look, there's no sign of life
from that mountain. We've won, but the fighting's continuing.
So we thought if you went out on the steps of the Justice
Building and laid it out--told everybody that the Nut's
defeated, that the Capitol's presence in District Two is
finished--you might be able to get the rest of their forces to
surrender."
I peer at the darkness beyond the square. "I can't even
see their forces."
"That's what the mike's for," he says. "You'll be
broadcast, both your voice through their emergency audio
system, and your image wherever people have access to a
screen."
I know there are a couple of huge screens here on the
square. I saw them on the Victory Tour. It might work, if I
were good at this sort of thing. Which I'm not. They tried to
feed me lines in those early experiments with the propos,
too, and it was a flop.
"You could save a lot of lives, Katniss," Haymitch says
finally.
"All right. I'll give it a try," I tell him.
It's strange standing outside at the top of the stairs,
fully costumed, brightly lit, but with no visible audience to
deliver my speech to. Like I'm doing a show for the moon.
"Let's make this quick," says Haymitch. "You're too
exposed."
My television crew, positioned out in the square with
special cameras, indicates that they're ready. I tell
Haymitch to go ahead, then click on my mike and listen
carefully to him dictate the first line of the speech. A huge
image of me lights up one of the screens over the square
as I begin. "People of District Two, this is Katniss
Everdeen speaking to you from the steps of your Justice
Building, where--"
The pair of trains comes screeching into the train
station side by side. As the doors slide open, people
tumble out in a cloud of smoke they've brought from the Nut.
They must have had at least an inkling of what would await
them at the square, because you can see them trying to act
evasively. Most of them flatten on the floor, and a spray of
bullets inside the station takes out the lights. They've come
armed, as Gale predicted, but they've come wounded as
well. The moans can be heard in the otherwise silent night
air.
Someone kills the lights on the stairs, leaving me in the
protection of shadow. A flame blooms inside the station--
one of the trains must actually be on fire--and a thick, black
smoke billows against the windows. Left with no choice, the
people begin to push out into the square, choking but
defiantly waving their guns. My eyes dart around the
rooftops that ring the square. Every one of them has been
fortified with rebel-manned machine gun nests. Moonlight
glints off oiled barrels.
A young man staggers out from the station, one hand
pressed against a bloody cloth at his cheek, the other
dragging a gun. When he trips and falls to his face, I see
the scorch marks down the back of his shirt, the red flesh
beneath. And suddenly, he's just another burn victim from a
mine accident.
My feet fly down the steps and I take off running for
him. "Stop!" I yell at the rebels. "Hold your fire!" The words
echo around the square and beyond as the mike amplifies
my voice. "Stop!" I'm nearing the young man, reaching
down to help him, when he drags himself up to his knees
and trains his gun on my head.
I instinctively back up a few steps, raise my bow over
my head to show my intention was harmless. Now that he
has both hands on his gun, I notice the ragged hole in his
cheek where something--falling stone maybe--punctured
the flesh. He smells of burning things, hair and meat and
fuel. His eyes are crazed with pain and fear.
"Freeze," Haymitch's voice whispers in my ear. I follow
his order, realizing that this is what all of District 2, all of
Panem maybe, must be seeing at the moment. The
Mockingjay at the mercy of a man with nothing to lose.
His garbled speech is barely comprehensible. "Give
me one reason I shouldn't shoot you."
The rest of the world recedes. There's only me looking
into the wretched eyes of the man from the Nut who asks for
one reason. Surely I should be able to come up with
thousands. But the words that make it to my lips are "I
can't."
Logically, the next thing that should happen is the man
pulling the trigger. But he's perplexed, trying to make sense
of my words. I experience my own confusion as I realize
what I've said is entirely true, and the noble impulse that
carried me across the square is replaced by despair. "I
can't. That's the problem, isn't it?" I lower my bow. "We blew
up your mine. You burned my district to the ground. We've
got every reason to kill each other. So do it. Make the
Capitol happy. I'm done killing their slaves for them." I drop
my bow on the ground and give it a nudge with my boot. It
slides across the stone and comes to rest at his knees.
"I'm not their slave," the man mutters.
"I am," I say. "That's why I killed Cato...and he killed
Thresh...and he killed Clove...and she tried to kill me. It just
goes around and around, and who wins? Not us. Not the
districts. Always the Capitol. But I'm tired of being a piece
in their Games."
Peeta. On the rooftop the night before our first Hunger
Games. He understood it all before we'd even set foot in
the arena. I hope he's watching now, that he remembers
that night as it happened, and maybe forgives me when I
die.
"Keep talking. Tell them about watching the mountain
go down," Haymitch insists.
"When I saw that mountain fall tonight, I
thought...they've done it again. Got me to kill you--the
people in the districts. But why did I do it? District Twelve
and District Two have no fight except the one the Capitol
gave us." The young man blinks at me uncomprehendingly.
I sink on my knees before him, my voice low and urgent.
"And why are you fighting with the rebels on the rooftops?
With Lyme, who was your victor? With people who were
your neighbors, maybe even your family?"
"I don't know," says the man. But he doesn't take his
gun off me.
I rise and turn slowly in a circle, addressing the
machine guns. "And you up there? I come from a mining
town. Since when do miners condemn other miners to that
kind of death, and then stand by to kill whoever manages to
crawl from the rubble?"
"Who is the enemy?" whispers Haymitch.
"These people"--I indicate the wounded bodies on the
square--"are not your enemy!" I whip back around to the
train station. "The rebels are not your enemy! We all have
one enemy, and it's the Capitol! This is our chance to put
an end to their power, but we need every district person to
do it!" The cameras are tight on me as I reach out my hands
to the man, to the wounded, to the reluctant rebels across
Panem. "Please! Join us!"
My words hang in the air. I look to the screen, hoping to
see them recording some wave of reconciliation going
through the crowd.
Instead I watch myself get shot on television.
16
"Always."
In the twilight of morphling, Peeta whispers the word
and I go searching for him. It's a gauzy, violet-tinted world,
with no hard edges, and many places to hide. I push
through cloud banks, follow faint tracks, catch the scent of
cinnamon, of dill. Once I feel his hand on my cheek and try
to trap it, but it dissolves like mist through my fingers.
When I finally begin to surface into the sterile hospital
room in 13, I remember. I was under the influence of sleep
syrup. My heel had been injured after I'd climbed out on a
branch over the electric fence and dropped back into 12.
Peeta had put me to bed and I had asked him to stay with
me as I was drifting off. He had whispered something I
couldn't quite catch. But some part of my brain had trapped
his single word of reply and let it swim up through my
dreams to taunt me now. "Always."
Morphling dulls the extremes of all emotions, so
instead of a stab of sorrow, I merely feel emptiness. A
hollow of dead brush where flowers used to bloom.
Unfortunately, there's not enough of the drug left in my veins
for me to ignore the pain in the left side of my body. That's
where the bullet hit. My hands fumble over the thick
bandages encasing my ribs and I wonder what I'm still
doing here.
It wasn't him, the man kneeling before me on the
square, the burned one from the Nut. He didn't pull the
trigger. It was someone farther back in the crowd. There
was less a sense of penetration than the feeling that I'd
been struck with a sledgehammer. Everything after the
moment of impact is confusion riddled with gunfire. I try to
sit up, but the only thing I manage is a moan.
The white curtain that divides my bed from the next
patient's whips back, and Johanna Mason stares down at
me. At first I feel threatened, because she attacked me in
the arena. I have to remind myself that she did it to save my
life. It was part of the rebel plot. But still, that doesn't mean
she doesn't despise me. Maybe her treatment of me was
all an act for the Capitol?
"I'm alive," I say rustily.
"No kidding, brainless." Johanna walks over and
plunks down on my bed, sending spikes of pain shooting
across my chest. When she grins at my discomfort, I know
we're not in for some warm reunion scene. "Still a little
sore?" With an expert hand, she quickly detaches the
morphling drip from my arm and plugs it into a socket taped
into the crook of her own. "They started cutting back my
supply a few days ago. Afraid I'm going to turn into one of
those freaks from Six. I've had to borrow from you when the
coast was clear. Didn't think you'd mind."
Mind? How can I mind when she was almost tortured
to death by Snow after the Quarter Quell? I have no right to
mind, and she knows it.
Johanna sighs as the morphling enters her
bloodstream. "Maybe they were onto something in Six.
Drug yourself out and paint flowers on your body. Not such
a bad life. Seemed happier than the rest of us, anyway."
In the weeks since I left 13, she's gained some weight
back. A soft down of hair has sprouted on her shaved head,
helping to hide some of the scars. But if she's siphoning off
my morphling, she's struggling.
"They've got this head doctor who comes around every
day. Supposed to be helping me recover. Like some guy
who's spent his life in this rabbit warren's going to fix me
up. Complete idiot. At least twenty times a session he
reminds me that I'm totally safe." I manage a smile. It's a
truly stupid thing to say, especially to a victor. As if such a
state of being ever existed, anywhere, for anyone. "How
about you, Mockingjay? You feel totally safe?"
"Oh, yeah. Right up until I got shot," I say.
"Please. That bullet never even touched you. Cinna
saw to that," she says.
I think of the layers of protective armor in my
Mockingjay outfit. But the pain came from somewhere.
"Broken ribs?"
"Not even. Bruised pretty good. The impact ruptured
your spleen. They couldn't repair it." She gives a dismissive
wave of her hand. "Don't worry, you don't need one. And if
you did, they'd find you one, wouldn't they? It's everybody's
job to keep you alive."
"Is that why you hate me?" I ask.
"Partly," she admits. "Jealousy is certainly involved. I
also think you're a little hard to swallow. With your tacky
romantic drama and your defender-of-the-helpless act. Only
it isn't an act, which makes you more unbearable. Please
feel free to take this personally."
"You should have been the Mockingjay. No one
would've had to feed you lines," I say.
"True. But no one likes me," she tells me.
"They trusted you, though. To get me out," I remind her.
"And they're afraid of you."
"Here, maybe. In the Capitol, you're the one they're
scared of now." Gale appears in the doorway, and Johanna
neatly unhooks herself and reattaches me to the morphling
drip. "Your cousin's not afraid of me," she says
confidentially. She scoots off my bed and crosses to the
door, nudging Gale's leg with her hip as she passes him.
"Are you, gorgeous?" We can hear her laughter as she
disappears down the hall.
I raise my eyebrows at him as he takes my hand.
"Terrified," he mouths. I laugh, but it turns into a wince.
"Easy." He strokes my face as the pain ebbs. "You've got
to stop running straight into trouble."
"I know. But someone blew up a mountain," I answer.
Instead of pulling back, he leans in closer, searching
my face. "You think I'm heartless."
"I know you're not. But I won't tell you it's okay," I say.
Now he draws back, almost impatiently. "Katniss, what
difference is there, really, between crushing our enemy in a
mine or blowing them out of the sky with one of Beetee's
arrows? The result is the same."
"I don't know. We were under attack in Eight, for one
thing. The hospital was under attack," I say.
"Yes, and those hoverplanes came from District Two,"
he says. "So, by taking them out, we prevented further
attacks."
"But that kind of thinking...you could turn it into an
argument for killing anyone at any time. You could justify
sending kids into the Hunger Games to prevent the districts
from getting out of line," I say.
"I don't buy that," he tells me.
"I do," I reply. "It must be those trips to the arena."
"Fine. We know how to disagree," he says. "We
always have. Maybe it's good. Between you and me, we've
got District Two now."
"Really?" For a moment a feeling of triumph flares up
inside me. Then I think about the people on the square.
"Was there fighting after I was shot?"
"Not much. The workers from the Nut turned on the
Capitol soldiers. The rebels just sat by and watched," he
says. "Actually, the whole country just sat by and watched."
"Well, that's what they do best," I say.
You'd think that losing a major organ would entitle you
to lie around a few weeks, but for some reason, my doctors
want me up and moving almost immediately. Even with the
morphling, the internal pain's severe the first few days, but
then it slacks off considerably. The soreness from the
bruised ribs, however, promises to hang on for a while. I
begin to resent Johanna dipping into my morphling supply,
but I still let her take whatever she likes.
Rumors of my death have been running rampant, so
they send in the team to film me in my hospital bed. I show
off my stitches and impressive bruising and congratulate
the districts on their successful battle for unity. Then I warn
the Capitol to expect us soon.
As part of my rehabilitation, I take short walks
aboveground each day. One afternoon, Plutarch joins me
and gives me an update on our current situation. Now that
District 2 has allied with us, the rebels are taking a breather
from the war to regroup. Fortifying supply lines, seeing to
the wounded, reorganizing their troops. The Capitol, like 13
during the Dark Days, finds itself completely cut off from
outside help as it holds the threat of nuclear attack over its
enemies. Unlike 13, the Capitol is not in a position to
reinvent itself and become self-sufficient.
"Oh, the city might be able to scrape along for a while,"
says Plutarch. "Certainly, there are emergency supplies
stockpiled. But the significant difference between Thirteen
and the Capitol are the expectations of the populace.
Thirteen was used to hardship, whereas in the Capitol, all
they've known is Panem et Circenses."
"What's that?" I recognize Panem, of course, but the
rest is nonsense.
"It's a saying from thousands of years ago, written in a
language called Latin about a place called Rome," he
explains. "Panem et Circenses translates into 'Bread and
Circuses.' The writer was saying that in return for full bellies
and entertainment, his people had given up their political
responsibilities and therefore their power."
I think about the Capitol. The excess of food. And the
ultimate entertainment. The Hunger Games. "So that's what
the districts are for. To provide the bread and circuses."
"Yes. And as long as that kept rolling in, the Capitol
could control its little empire. Right now, it can provide
neither, at least at the standard the people are accustomed
to," says Plutarch. "We have the food and I'm about to
orchestrate an entertainment propo that's sure to be
popular. After all, everybody loves a wedding."
I freeze in my tracks, sick at the idea of what he's
suggesting. Somehow staging some perverse wedding
between Peeta and me. I haven't been able to face that
one-way glass since I've been back and, at my own
request, only get updates about Peeta's condition from
Haymitch. He speaks very little about it. Different
techniques are being tried. There will never truly be a way
to cure him. And now they want me to marry Peeta for a
propo?
Plutarch rushes to reassure me. "Oh, no, Katniss. Not
your wedding. Finnick and Annie's. All you need to do is
show up and pretend to be happy for them."
"That's one of the few things I won't have to pretend,
Plutarch," I tell him.
The next few days bring a flurry of activity as the event
is planned. The differences between the Capitol and 13 are
thrown into sharp relief by the event. When Coin says
"wedding," she means two people signing a piece of paper
and being assigned a new compartment. Plutarch means
hundreds of people dressed in finery at a three-day
celebration. It's amusing to watch them haggle over the
details. Plutarch has to fight for every guest, every musical
note. After Coin vetoes a dinner, entertainment, and
alcohol, Plutarch yells, "What's the point of the propo if no
one's having any fun!"
It's hard to put a Gamemaker on a budget. But even a
quiet celebration causes a stir in 13, where they seem to
have no holidays at all. When it's announced that children
are wanted to sing District 4's wedding song, practically
every kid shows up. There's no shortage of volunteers to
help make decorations. In the dining hall, people chat
excitedly about the event.
Maybe it's more than the festivities. Maybe it's that we
are all so starved for something good to happen that we
want to be part of it. It would explain why--when Plutarch has
a fit over what the bride will wear--I volunteer to take Annie
back to my house in 12, where Cinna left a variety of
evening clothes in a big storage closet downstairs. All of
the wedding gowns he designed for me went back to the
Capitol, but there are some dresses I wore on the Victory
Tour. I'm a little leery about being with Annie since all I really
know about her is that Finnick loves her and everybody
thinks she's mad. On the hovercraft ride, I decide she's less
mad than unstable. She laughs at odd places in the
conversation or drops out of it distractedly. Those green
eyes fixate on a point with such intensity that you find
yourself trying to make out what she sees in the empty air.
Sometimes, for no reason, she presses both her hands
over her ears as if to block out a painful sound. All right,
she's strange, but if Finnick loves her, that's good enough
for me.
I got permission for my prep team to come along, so
I'm relieved of having to make any fashion decisions. When
I open the closet, we all fall silent because Cinna's
presence is so strong in the flow of the fabrics. Then
Octavia drops to her knees, rubs the hem of a skirt against
her cheek, and bursts into tears. "It's been so long," she
gasps, "since I've seen anything pretty."
Despite reservations on Coin's side that it's too
extravagant, and on Plutarch's side that it's too drab, the
wedding is a smash hit. The three hundred lucky guests
culled from 13 and the many refugees wear their everyday
