dignity, straightening her shawls and many strands of 
glittering beads, “was fixed upon matters well outside 
the mundane realms of whooping voices.” 

“Right,” said Harry hastily; he had heard about 
Professor Trelawney’s Inner Eye all too often before. 
“And did the voice say who was there?” 

“No, it did not,” she said. “Everything went pitch- 
black and the next thing I knew, I was being hurled 
headfirst out of the room!” 

“And you didn’t see that coming?” said Harry, unable 
to help himself. 

“No, I did not, as I say, it was pitch — ” She stopped 
and glared at him suspiciously. 

“I think you’d better tell Professor Dumbledore,” said 
Harry. “He ought to know Malfoy’s celebrating — I 
mean, that someone threw you out of the room.” 

To his surprise, Professor Trelawney drew herself up 
at this suggestion, looking haughty. 

“The headmaster has intimated that he would prefer 
fewer visits from me,” she said coldly. “I am not one to 
press my company upon those who do not value it. If 
Dumbledore chooses to ignore the warnings the cards 
show — ” Her bony hand closed suddenly around 
Harry’s wrist. “Again and again, no matter how I lay 
them out — ” And she pulled a card dramatically from 
underneath her shawls. “ — the lightning-struck 
tower,” she whispered. “Calamity. Disaster. Coming 
nearer all the time ...” 

“Right,” said Harry again. “Well ... I still think you 
should tell Dumbledore about this voice, and 

Page | 609 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




everything going dark and being thrown out of the 
room. ...” 

“You think so?” Professor Trelawney seemed to 
consider the matter for a moment, but Harry could 
tell that she liked the idea of retelling her little 
adventure. 

“I’m going to see him right now,” said Harry. “I’ve got 
a meeting with him. We could go together.” 

“Oh, well, in that case,” said Professor Trelawney with 
a smile. She bent down, scooped up her sherry 
bottles, and dumped them unceremoniously in a large 
blue-and-white vase standing in a nearby niche. 

“I miss having you in my classes, Harry,” she said 
soulfully as they set off together. “You were never 
much of a Seer ... but you were a wonderful Object 



Harry did not reply; he had loathed being the Object 
of Professor Trelawney’s continual predictions of 
doom. 

“I am afraid,” she went on, “that the nag — I’m sorry, 
the centaur — knows nothing of cartomancy. I asked 
him — one Seer to another — had he not, too, sensed 
the distant vibrations of coming catastrophe? But he 
seemed to find me almost comical. Yes, comical!” 

Her voice rose rather hysterically, and Harry caught a 
powerful whiff of sherry even though the bottles had 
been left behind. 

“Perhaps the horse has heard people say that I have 
not inherited my great-great-grandmother’s gift. 

Those rumors have been bandied about by the jealous 
for years. You know what I say to such people, Harry? 

Page | 610 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




Would Dumbledore have let me teach at this great 
school, put so much trust in me all these years, had I 
not proved myself to him?” 

Harry mumbled something indistinct. 

“I well remember my first interview with Dumbledore,” 
went on Professor Trelawney, in throaty tones. “He 
was deeply impressed, of course, deeply impressed. ... 
I was staying at the Hog’s Head, which I do not 
advise, incidentally — bedbugs, dear boy — but funds 
were low. Dumbledore did me the courtesy of calling 
upon me in my room. He questioned me. ... I must 
confess that, at first, I thought he seemed ill-disposed 
toward Divination . . . and I remember I was starting to 
feel a little odd, I had not eaten much that day ... but 
then ...” 

And now Harry was paying attention properly for the 
first time, for he knew what had happened then: 
Professor Trelawney had made the prophecy that had 
altered the course of his whole life, the prophecy 
about him and Voldemort. 

"... but then we were rudely interrupted by Severus 
Snape!” 

“What?” 

“Yes, there was a commotion outside the door and it 
flew open, and there was that rather uncouth barman 
standing with Snape, who was waffling about having 
come the wrong way up the stairs, although I’m afraid 
that I myself rather thought he had been 
apprehended eavesdropping on my interview with 
Dumbledore — you see, he himself was seeking a job 
at the time, and no doubt hoped to pick up tips! Well, 
after that, you know, Dumbledore seemed much more 
disposed to give me a job, and I could not help 
Page | 611 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




thinking, Harry, that it was because he appreciated 
the stark contrast between my own unassuming 
manners and quiet talent, compared to the pushing, 
thrusting young man who was prepared to listen at 
keyholes — Harry, dear?” 

She looked back over her shoulder, having only just 
realized that Harry was no longer with her; he had 
stopped walking and they were now ten feet from each 
other. 

“Harry?” she repeated uncertainly. 

Perhaps his face was white to make her look so 
concerned and frightened. Harry was standing stock- 
still as waves of shock crashed over him, wave after 
wave, obliterating everything except the information 
that had been kept from him for so long. . . . 

It was Snape who had overheard the prophecy. It was 
Snape who had carried the news of the prophecy to 
Voldemort. Snape and Peter Pettigrew together had 
sent Voldemort hunting after Lily and James and 
their son. ... 

Nothing else mattered to Harry just now. 

“Harry?” said Professor Trelawney again. “Harry — I 
thought we were going to see the headmaster 
together?” 

“You stay here,” said Harry through numb lips. 

“But dear ... I was going to tell him how I was 
assaulted in the Room of — ” 

“You stay here!” Harry repeated angrily. 



Page | 612 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




She looked alarmed as he ran past her, around the 
corner into Dumbledore’s corridor, where the lone 
gargoyle stood sentry. Harry shouted the password at 
the gargoyle and ran up the moving spiral staircase 
three steps at a time. He did not knock upon 
Dumbledore’s door, he hammered; and the calm voice 
answered, “Enter” after Harry had already flung 
himself into the room. 

Fawkes the phoenix looked around, his bright black 
eyes gleaming with reflected gold from the sunset 
beyond the windows. Dumbledore was standing at the 
window looking out at the grounds, a long, black 
traveling cloak in his arms. 

“Well, Harry, I promised that you could come with 
me.” 

For a moment or two, Harry did not understand; the 
conversation with Trelawney had driven everything 
else out of his head and his brain seemed to be 
moving very slowly. 

“Come . . . with you ... ?” 

“Only if you wish it, of course.” 

“If I ...” 

And then Harry remembered why he had been eager 
to come to Dumbledore’s office in the first place. 
“You’ve found one? You’ve found a Horcrux?” 

“I believe so.” 

Rage and resentment fought shock and excitement: 
For several moments, Harry could not speak. 

“It is natural to be afraid,” said Dumbledore. 

Page | 613 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm not scared!” said Harry at once, and it was 
perfectly true; fear was one emotion he was not 
feeling at all. “Which Horcrux is it? Where is it?” 

“I am not sure which it is — though I think we can 
rule out the snake — but I believe it to be hidden in a 
cave on the coast many miles from here, a cave I have 
been trying to locate for a very long time: the cave in 
which Tom Riddle once terrorized two children from 
his orphanage on their annual trip; you remember?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. “How is it protected?” 

“I do not know; I have suspicions that may be entirely 
wrong.” Dumbledore hesitated, then said, “Harry, I 
promised you that you could come with me, and I 
stand by that promise, but it would be very wrong of 
me not to warn you that this will be exceedingly 
dangerous.” 

“I’m coming,” said Harry, almost before Dumbledore 
had finished speaking. Boiling with anger at Snape, 
his desire to do something desperate and risky had 
increased tenfold in the last few minutes. This 
seemed to show on Harry’s face, for Dumbledore 
moved away from the window and looked more closely 
at Harry, a slight crease between his silver eyebrows. 

“What has happened to you?” 

“Nothing,” lied Harry promptly. 

“What has upset you?” 

“I’m not upset.” 

“Harry, you were never a good Occlumens — ” 



The word was the spark that ignited Harry’s fury. 

Page | 614 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Snape!” he said, very loudly, and Fawkes gave a soft 
squawk behind them. “Snape’s what’s happened! He 
told Voldemort about the prophecy, it was him, he 
listened outside the door, Trelawney told me!” 

Dumbledore’s expression did not change, but Harry 
thought his face whitened under the bloody tinge cast 
by the setting sun. For a long moment, Dumbledore 
said nothing. “When did you find out about this?” he 
asked at last. 

“Just now!” said Harry, who was refraining from 
yelling with enormous difficulty. And then, suddenly, 
he could not stop himself. “AND YOU LET HIM 
TEACH HERE AND HE TOLD VOLDEMORT TO GO 
AFTER MY MUM AND DAD!” 

Breathing hard as though he was fighting, Harry 
turned away from Dumbledore, who still had not 
moved a muscle, and paced up and down the study, 
rubbing his knuckles in his hand and exercising 
every last bit of restraint to prevent himself knocking 
things over. He wanted to rage and storm at 
Dumbledore, but he also wanted to go with him to try 
and destroy the Horcrux; he wanted to tell him that 
he was a foolish old man for trusting Snape, but he 
was terrified that Dumbledore would not take him 
along unless he mastered his anger. ... 

“Harry,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Please listen to 
me.” 

It was as difficult to stop his relentless pacing as to 
refrain from shouting. Harry paused, biting his lip, 
and looked into Dumbledore’s lined face. 

“Professor Snape made a terrible — ” 



Page | 615 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t tell me it was a mistake, sir, he was listening 
at the door!” 

“Please let me finish.” Dumbledore waited until Harry 
had nodded curtly, then went on. “Professor Snape 
made a terrible mistake. He was still in Lord 
Voldemort’s employ on the night he heard the first 
half of Professor Trelawney’s prophecy. Naturally, he 
hastened to tell his master what he had heard, for it 
concerned his master most deeply. But he did not 
know — he had no possible way of knowing — which 
boy Voldemort would hunt from then onward, or that 
the parents he would destroy in his murderous quest 
were people that Professor Snape knew, that they 
were your mother and father — ” 

Harry let out a yell of mirthless laughter. 

“He hated my dad like he hated Sirius! Haven’t you 
noticed, Professor, how the people Snape hates tend 
to end up dead?” 

“You have no idea of the remorse Professor Snape felt 
when he realized how Lord Voldemort had interpreted 
the prophecy, Harry. I believe it to be the greatest 
regret of his life and the reason that he returned — ” 

“But he’s a very good Occlumens, isn’t he, sir?” said 
Harry, whose voice was shaking with the effort of 
keeping it steady. “And isn’t Voldemort convinced that 
Snape’s on his side, even now? Professor ... how can 
you be sure Snape’s on our side?” 

Dumbledore did not speak for a moment; he looked as 
though he was trying to make up his mind about 
something. At last he said, “I am sure. I trust Severus 
Snape completely.” 



Page | 616 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry breathed deeply for a few moments in an effort 
to steady himself. It did not work. 

“Well, I don’t!” he said, as loudly as before. “He’s up to 
something with Draco Malfoy right now, right under 
your nose, and you still — ” 

“We have discussed this, Harry,” said Dumbledore, 
and now he sounded stern again. “I have told you my 
views.” 

“You’re leaving the school tonight, and I’ll bet you 
haven’t even considered that Snape and Malfoy might 
decide to — ” 

“To what?” asked Dumbledore, his eyebrows raised. 
“What is it that you suspect them of doing, precisely?” 

“I ... they’re up to something!” said Harry, and his 
hands curled into fists as he said it. “Professor 
Trelawney was just in the Room of Requirement, 
trying to hide her sherry bottles, and she heard 
Malfoy whooping, celebrating! He’s trying to mend 
something dangerous in there and if you ask me, he’s 
fixed it at last and you’re about to just walk out of 
school without — ” 

“Enough,” said Dumbledore. He said it quite calmly, 
and yet Harry fell silent at once; he knew that he had 
finally crossed some invisible line. “Do you think that 
I have once left the school unprotected during my 
absences this year? I have not. Tonight, when I leave, 
there will again be additional protection in place. 
Please do not suggest that I do not take the safety of 
my students seriously, Harry.” 

“I didn’t — ” mumbled Harry, a little abashed, but 
Dumbledore cut across him. 



Page | 617 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I do not wish to discuss the matter any further.” 

Harry bit back his retort, scared that he had gone too 
far, that he had ruined his chance of accompanying 
Dumbledore, but Dumbledore went on, “Do you wish 
to come with me tonight?” 

“Yes,” said Harry at once. 

“Very well, then: Listen.” Dumbledore drew himself up 
to his full height. “I take you with me on one 
condition: that you obey any command I might give 
you at once, and without question.” 

“Of course.” 

“Be sure to understand me, Harry. I mean that you 
must follow even such orders as ‘run,’ ‘hide,’ or ‘go 
back.’ Do I have your word?” 

“I — yes, of course.” 

“If I tell you to hide, you will do so?” 

“Yes.” 

“If I tell you to flee, you will obey?” 

“Yes.” 

“If I tell you to leave me and save yourself, you will do 
as I tell you? 



“Harry?” 

They looked at each other for a moment. 



Page | 618 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, sir.” 



“Very good. Then I wish you to go and fetch your 
Invisibility Cloak and meet me in the entrance hall in 
five minutes’ time.” 

Dumbledore turned back to look out of the fiery 
window; the sun was now a ruby red glare along the 
horizon. Harry walked quickly from the office and 
down the spiral staircase. His mind was oddly clear 
all of a sudden. He knew what to do. 

Ron and Hermione were sitting together in the 
common room when he came back. “What does he 
want?” Hermione said at once. “Harry, are you okay?” 
she added anxiously. 

“I’m fine,” said Harry shortly, racing past them. He 
dashed up the stairs and into his dormitory, where he 
flung open his trunk and pulled out the Marauder’s 
Map and a pair of balled-up socks. Then he sped back 
down the stairs and into the common room, skidding 
to a halt where Ron and Hermione sat, looking 
stunned. 

“I’ve got to be quick,” Harry panted. “Dumbledore 
thinks I’m getting my Invisibility Cloak. Listen. ...” 

Quickly he told them where he was going and why. He 
did not pause either for Hermione ’s gasps of horror or 
for Ron’s hasty questions; they could work out the 
finer details for themselves later. 

“... so you see what this means?” Harry finished at a 
gallop. “Dumbledore won’t be here tonight, so 
Malfoy’s going to have another clear shot at whatever 
he’s up to. No, listen to me!” he hissed angrily, as both 
Ron and Hermione showed every sign of interrupting. 
“I know it was Malfoy celebrating in the Room of 
Page | 619 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Requirement. Here — ” He shoved the Marauder’s Map 
into Hermione’s hands. “You’ve got to watch him and 
you’ve got to watch Snape too. Use anyone else who 
you can rustle up from the D.A., Hermione, those 
contact Galleons will still work, right? Dumbledore 
says he’s put extra protection in the school, but if 
Snape ’s involved, he’ll know what Dumbledore ’s 
protection is, and how to avoid it — but he won’t be 
expecting you lot to be on the watch, will he?” 

“Harry — ” began Hermione, her eyes huge with fear. 

“I haven’t got time to argue,” said Harry curtly. “Take 
this as well — ” 

He thrust the socks into Ron’s hands. 

“Thanks,” said Ron. “Er — why do I need socks?” 

“You need what’s wrapped in them, it’s the Felix 
Felicis. Share it between yourselves and Ginny too. 
Say good-bye to her for me. I’d better go, 

Dumbledore ’s waiting — ” 

“No!” said Hermione, as Ron unwrapped the tiny little 
bottle of golden potion, looking awestruck. “We don’t 
want it, you take it, who knows what you’re going to 
be facing?” 

“I’ll be fine, I’ll be with Dumbledore,” said Harry. “I 
want to know you lot are okay. ... Don’t look like that, 
Hermione, I’ll see you later. ...” 

And he was off, hurrying back through the portrait 
hole and toward the entrance hall. 

Dumbledore was waiting beside the oaken front 
doors. He turned as Harry came skidding out onto the 



Page | 620 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




topmost stone step, panting hard, a searing stitch in 
his side. 

“I would like you to wear your cloak, please,” said 
Dumbledore, and he waited until Harry had thrown it 
on before saying, “Very good. Shall we go?” 

Dumbledore set off at once down the stone steps, his 
own traveling cloak barely stirring in the still summer 
air. Harry hurried alongside him under the Invisibility 
Cloak, still panting and sweating rather a lot. 

“But what will people think when they see you 
leaving, Professor?” Harry asked, his mind on Malfoy 
and Snape. 

“That I am off into Hogsmeade for a drink,” said 
Dumbledore lightly. “I sometimes offer Rosmerta my 
custom, or else visit the Hog’s Head ... or I appear to. 
It is as good a way as any of disguising one’s true 
destination.” 

They made their way down the drive in the gathering 
twilight. The air was full of the smells of warm grass, 
lake water, and wood smoke from Hagrid’s cabin. It 
was difficult to believe that they were heading for 
anything dangerous or frightening. 

“Professor,” said Harry quietly, as the gates at the 
bottom of the drive came into view, “will we be 
Apparating?” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “You can Apparate now, I 
believe?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, “but I haven’t got a license.” 



Page | 621 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




He felt it best to be honest; what if he spoiled 
everything by turning up a hundred miles from where 
he was supposed to go? 

“No matter,” said Dumbledore, “I can assist you 
again.” 

They turned out of the gates into the twilit, deserted 
lane to Hogsmeade. Darkness descended fast as they 
walked, and by the time they reached the High Street 
night was falling in earnest. Lights twinkled from 
windows over shops and as they neared the Three 
Broomsticks they heard raucous shouting. 

“ — and stay out!” shouted Madam Rosmerta, forcibly 
ejecting a grubby-looking wizard. “Oh, hello, Albus ... 
You’re out late ...” 

“Good evening, Rosmerta, good evening ... forgive me, 
I’m off to the Hog’s Head. ... No offense, but I feel like 
a quieter atmosphere tonight. ...” 

A minute later they turned the corner into the side 
street where the Hog’s Head’s sign creaked a little, 
though there was no breeze. In contrast to the Three 
Broomsticks, the pub appeared to be completely 
empty. 

“It will not be necessary for us to enter,” muttered 
Dumbledore, glancing around. “As long as nobody 
sees us go ... now place your hand upon my arm, 
Harry. There is no need to grip too hard, I am merely 
guiding you. On the count of three ... One ... two ... 
three ...” 

Harry turned. At once, there was that horrible 
sensation that he was being squeezed through a thick 
rubber tube; he could not draw breath, every part of 
him was being compressed almost past endurance 

Page | 622 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




and then, just when he thought he must suffocate, 
the invisible bands seemed to burst open, and he was 
standing in cool darkness, breathing in lungfuls of 
fresh, salty air. 



Page | 623 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 







THE CAVE 

Harry could smell salt and hear rushing waves; a 
light, chilly breeze ruffled his hair as he looked out at 
moonlit sea and star-strewn sky. He was standing 
upon a high outcrop of dark rock, water foaming and 
churning below him. He glanced over his shoulder. A 
towering cliff stood behind them, a sheer drop, black 
and faceless. A few large chunks of rock, such as the 
one upon which Harry and Dumbledore were 
standing, looked as though they had broken away 
from the cliff face at some point in the past. It was a 
bleak, harsh view, the sea and the rock unrelieved by 
any tree or sweep of grass or sand. 

“What do you think?” asked Dumbledore. He might 
have been asking Harry’s opinion on whether it was a 
good site for a picnic. 

“They brought the kids from the orphanage here?” 
asked Harry, who could not imagine a less cozy spot 
for a day trip. 



Page | 624 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“Not here, precisely,” said Dumbledore. “There is a 
village of sorts about halfway along the cliffs behind 
us. I believe the orphans were taken there for a little 
sea air and a view of the waves. No, I think it was only 
ever Tom Riddle and his youthful victims who visited 
this spot. No Muggle could reach this rock unless 
they were uncommonly good mountaineers, and boats 
cannot approach the cliffs, the waters around them 
are too dangerous. I imagine that Riddle climbed 
down; magic would have served better than ropes. 

And he brought two small children with him, 
probably for the pleasure of terrorizing them. I think 
the journey alone would have done it, don’t you?” 

Harry looked up at the cliff again and felt goose 
bumps. 

“But his final destination — and ours — lies a little 
farther on. Come.” 

Dumbledore beckoned Harry to the very edge of the 
rock where a series of jagged niches made footholds 
leading down to boulders that lay half-submerged in 
water and closer to the cliff. It was a treacherous 
descent and Dumbledore, hampered slightly by his 
withered hand, moved slowly. The lower rocks were 
slippery with seawater. Harry could feel flecks of cold 
salt spray hitting his face. 

“Lumos,” said Dumbledore, as he reached the boulder 
closest to the cliff face. A thousand flecks of golden 
light sparkled upon the dark surface of the water a 
few feet below where he crouched; the black wall of 
rock beside him was illuminated too. 

“You see?” said Dumbledore quietly, holding his wand 
a little higher. Harry saw a fissure in the cliff into 
which dark water was swirling. 



Page | 625 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You will not object to getting a little wet?” 

“No,” said Harry. 

“Then take off your Invisibility Cloak — there is no 
need for it now — and let us take the plunge.” 

And with the sudden agility of a much younger man, 
Dumbledore slid from the boulder, landed in the sea, 
and began to swim, with a perfect breaststroke, 
toward the dark slit in the rock face, his lit wand held 
in his teeth. Harry pulled off his cloak, stuffed it into 
his pocket, and followed. 

The water was icy; Harry’s waterlogged clothes 
billowed around him and weighed him down. Taking 
deep breaths that filled his nostrils with the tang of 
salt and seaweed, he struck out for the shimmering, 
shrinking light now moving deeper into the cliff. 

The fissure soon opened into a dark tunnel that Harry 
could tell would be filled with water at high tide. The 
slimy walls were barely three feet apart and 
glimmered like wet tar in the passing light of 
Dumbledore ’s wand. A little way in, the passageway 
curved to the left, and Harry saw that it extended far 
into the cliff. He continued to swim in Dumbledore ’s 
wake, the tips of his benumbed fingers brushing the 
rough, wet rock. 

Then he saw Dumbledore rising out of the water 
ahead, his silver hair and dark robes gleaming. When 
Harry reached the spot he found steps that led into a 
large cave. He clambered up them, water streaming 
from his soaking clothes, and emerged, shivering 
uncontrollably, into the still and freezing air. 



Page | 626 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore was standing in the middle of the cave, 
his wand held high as he turned slowly on the spot, 
examining the walls and ceiling. 

“Yes, this is the place,” said Dumbledore. 

“How can you tell?” Harry spoke in a whisper. 

“It has known magic,” said Dumbledore simply. 

Harry could not tell whether the shivers he was 
experiencing were due to his spine-deep coldness or 
to the same awareness of enchantments. He watched 
as Dumbledore continued to revolve on the spot, 
evidently concentrating on things Harry could not see. 

“This is merely the antechamber, the entrance hall,” 
said Dumbledore after a moment or two. “We need to 
penetrate the inner place. ... Now it is Lord 
Voldemort’s obstacles that stand in our way, rather 
than those nature made. ...” 

Dumbledore approached the wall of the cave and 
caressed it with his blackened fingertips, murmuring 
words in a strange tongue that Harry did not 
understand. Twice Dumbledore walked right around 
the cave, touching as much of the rough rock as he 
could, occasionally pausing, running his fingers 
backward and forward over a particular spot, until 
finally he stopped, his hand pressed flat against the 
wall. 

“Here,” he said. “We go on through here. The entrance 
is concealed.” 

Harry did not ask how Dumbledore knew. He had 
never seen a wizard work things out like this, simply 
by looking and touching; but Harry had long since 



Page | 627 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




learned that bangs and smoke were more often the 
marks of ineptitude than expertise. 

Dumbledore stepped back from the cave wall and 
pointed his wand at the rock. For a moment, an 
arched outline appeared there, blazing white as 
though there was a powerful light behind the crack. 

“You’ve d-done it!” said Harry through chattering 
teeth, but before the words had left his lips the 
outline had gone, leaving the rock as bare and solid 
as ever. Dumbledore looked around. 

“Harry, I’m so sorry, I forgot,” he said; he now pointed 
his wand at Harry and at once, Harry’s clothes were 
as warm and dry as if they had been hanging in front 
of a blazing fire. 

“Thank you,” said Harry gratefully, but Dumbledore 
had already turned his attention back to the solid 
cave wall. He did not try any more magic, but simply 
stood there staring at it intently, as though something 
extremely interesting was written on it. Harry stayed 
quite still; he did not want to break Dumbledore’s 
concentration. Then, after two solid minutes, 
Dumbledore said quietly, “Oh, surely not. So crude.” 

“What is it, Professor?” 

“I rather think,” said Dumbledore, putting his 
uninjured hand inside his robes and drawing out a 
short silver knife of the kind Harry used to chop 
potion ingredients, “that we are required to make 
payment to pass.” 

“Payment?” said Harry. “You’ve got to give the door 
something?” 



Page | 628 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “Blood, if I am not much 
mistaken.” 

“Blood?” 

“I said it was crude,” said Dumbledore, who sounded 
disdainful, even disappointed, as though Voldemort 
had fallen short of the standards Dumbledore 
expected. “The idea, as I am sure you will have 
gathered, is that your enemy must weaken him- or 
herself to enter. Once again, Lord Voldemort fails to 
grasp that there are much more terrible things than 
physical injury.” 

“Yeah, but still, if you can avoid it ...” said Harry, who 
had experienced enough pain not to be keen for more. 

“Sometimes, however, it is unavoidable,” said 
Dumbledore, shaking back the sleeve of his robes and 
exposing the forearm of his injured hand. 

“Professor!” protested Harry, hurrying forward as 
Dumbledore raised his knife. “Ill do it, I’m — ” 

He did not know what he was going to say — younger, 
fitter? But Dumbledore merely smiled. There was a 
flash of silver, and a spurt of scarlet; the rock face 
was peppered with dark, glistening drops. 

“You are very kind, Harry,” said Dumbledore, now 
passing the tip of his wand over the deep cut he had 
made in his own arm, so that it healed instantly, just 
as Snape had healed Malfoy’s wounds. “But your 
blood is worth more than mine. Ah, that seems to 
have done the trick, doesn’t it?” 

The blazing silver outline of an arch had appeared in 
the wall once more, and this time it did not fade 
away: The blood-spattered rock within it simply 

Page | 629 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




vanished, leaving an opening into what seemed total 
darkness. 

“After me, I think,” said Dumbledore, and he walked 
through the archway with Harry on his heels, lighting 
his own wand hastily as he went. 

An eerie sight met their eyes: They were standing on 
the edge of a great black lake, so vast that Harry 
could not make out the distant banks, in a cavern so 
high that the ceiling too was out of sight. A misty 
greenish light shone far away in what looked like the 
middle of the lake; it was reflected in the completely 
still water below. The greenish glow and the light from 
the two wands were the only things that broke the 
otherwise velvety blackness, though their rays did not 
penetrate as far as Harry would have expected. The 
darkness was somehow denser than normal 
darkness. 

“Let us walk,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Be very 
careful not to step into the water. Stay close to me.” 

He set off around the edge of the lake, and Harry 
followed close behind him. Their footsteps made 
echoing, slapping sounds on the narrow rim of rock 
that surrounded the water. On and on they walked, 
but the view did not vary: on one side of them, the 
rough cavern wall, on the other, the boundless 
expanse of smooth, glassy blackness, in the very 
middle of which was that mysterious greenish glow. 
Harry found the place and the silence oppressive, 
unnerving. 

“Professor?” he said finally. “Do you think the 
Horcrux is here?” 

“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore. “Yes, I’m sure it is. The 
question is, how do we get to it?” 

Page | 630 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“We couldn’t ... we couldn’t just try a Summoning 
Charm?” Harry said, sure that it was a stupid 
suggestion. But he was much keener than he was 
prepared to admit on getting out of this place as soon 
as possible. 

“Certainly we could,” said Dumbledore, stopping so 
suddenly that Harry almost walked into him. “Why 
don’t you do it?” 

“Me? Oh ... okay ...” 

Harry had not expected this, but cleared his throat 
and said loudly, wand aloft, “Accio Horcruxl” 

With a noise like an explosion, something very large 
and pale erupted out of the dark water some twenty 
feet away; before Harry could see what it was, it had 
vanished again with a crashing splash that made 
great, deep ripples on the mirrored surface. Harry 
leapt backward in shock and hit the wall; his heart 
was still thundering as he turned to Dumbledore. 

“What was that?” 

“Something, I think, that is ready to respond should 
we attempt to seize the Horcrux.” 

Harry looked back at the water. The surface of the 
lake was once more shining black glass: The ripples 
had vanished unnaturally fast; Harry’s heart, 
however, was still pounding. 

“Did you think that would happen, sir?” 

“I thought something would happen if we made an 
obvious attempt to get our hands on the Horcrux. 

That was a very good idea, Harry; much the simplest 
way of finding out what we are facing.” 

Page | 631 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




“But we don’t know what the thing was,” said Harry, 
looking at the sinisterly smooth water. 
