
Ron gave a loud false cough, which sounded oddly 
like “Lockhart\” 

The appearance of the sign in the entrance hall had a 
marked effect upon the inhabitants of the castle. 
During the following week, there seemed to be only 
one topic of conversation, no matter where Harry 
went: the Triwizard Tournament. Rumors were flying 
from student to student like highly contagious germs: 
who was going to try for Hogwarts champion, what 
the tournament would involve, how the students from 
Beauxbatons and Durmstrang differed from 
themselves. 

Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry noticed too that the castle seemed to be 
undergoing an extra-thorough cleaning. Several grimy 
portraits had been scrubbed, much to the displeasure 
of their subjects, who sat huddled in their frames 
muttering darkly and wincing as they felt their raw 
pink faces. The suits of armor were suddenly 
gleaming and moving without squeaking, and Argus 
Filch, the caretaker, was behaving so ferociously to 
any students who forgot to wipe their shoes that he 
terrified a pair of first-year girls into hysterics. 

Other members of the staff seemed oddly tense too. 

“Longbottom, kindly do not reveal that you can’t even 
perform a simple Switching Spell in front of anyone 
from Durmstrang!” Professor McGonagall barked at 
the end of one particularly difficult lesson, during 
which Neville had accidentally transplanted his own 
ears onto a cactus. 

When they went down to breakfast on the morning of 
the thirtieth of October, they found that the Great 
Hall had been decorated overnight. Enormous silk 
banners hung from the walls, each of them 
representing a Hogwarts House: red with a gold lion 
for Gryffindor, blue with a bronze eagle for 
Ravenclaw, yellow with a black badger for Hufflepuff, 
and green with a silver serpent for Slytherin. Behind 
the teachers’ table, the largest banner of all bore the 
Hogwarts coat of arms: lion, eagle, badger, and snake 
united around a large letter H. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down beside Fred and 
George at the Gryffindor table. Once again, and most 
unusually, they were sitting apart from everyone else 
and conversing in low voices. Ron led the way over to 
them. 



Page | 262 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s a bummer, all right,” George was saying gloomily 
to Fred. “But if he won’t talk to us in person, we’ll 
have to send him the letter after all. Or we’ll stuff it 
into his hand. He can’t avoid us forever.” 

“Who’s avoiding you?” said Ron, sitting down next to 
them. 

“Wish you would,” said Fred, looking irritated at the 
interruption. 

“What’s a bummer?” Ron asked George. 

“Having a nosy git like you for a brother,” said George. 

“You two got any ideas on the Triwizard Tournament 
yet?” Harry asked. “Thought any more about trying to 
enter?” 

“I asked McGonagall how the champions are chosen 
but she wasn’t telling,” said George bitterly. “She just 
told me to shut up and get on with transfiguring my 
raccoon.” 

“Wonder what the tasks are going to be?” said Ron 
thoughtfully. “You know, I bet we could do them, 
Harry. We’ve done dangerous stuff before. ...” 

“Not in front of a panel of judges, you haven’t,” said 
Fred. “McGonagall says the champions get awarded 
points according to how well they’ve done the tasks.” 

“Who are the judges?” Harry asked. 

“Well, the Heads of the participating schools are 
always on the panel,” said Hermione, and everyone 
looked around at her, rather surprised, “because all 
three of them were injured during the Tournament of 



Page | 263 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




1792, when a cockatrice the champions were 
supposed to be catching went on the rampage.” 

She noticed them all looking at her and said, with her 
usual air of impatience that nobody else had read all 
the books she had, “It’s all in Hogwarts, A History. 
Though, of course, that book’s not entirely reliable. A 
Revised History of Hogwarts would be a more 
accurate title. Or A Highly Biased and Selective 
History of Hogwarts, Which Glosses Over the Nastier 
Aspects of the School.” 

“What are you on about?” said Ron, though Harry 
thought he knew what was coming. 

“ House-elves\” said Hermione, her eyes flashing. “Not 
once, in over a thousand pages, does Hogwarts, A 
History mention that we are all colluding in the 
oppression of a hundred slaves!” 

Harry shook his head and applied himself to his 
scrambled eggs. His and Ron’s lack of enthusiasm 
had done nothing whatsoever to curb Hermione ’s 
determination to pursue justice for house-elves. True, 
both of them had paid two Sickles for a S.P.E.W. 
badge, but they had only done it to keep her quiet. 
Their Sickles had been wasted, however; if anything, 
they seemed to have made Hermione more vociferous. 
She had been badgering Harry and Ron ever since, 
first to wear the badges, then to persuade others to do 
the same, and she had also taken to rattling around 
the Gryffindor common room every evening, cornering 
people and shaking the collecting tin under their 
noses. 

“You do realize that your sheets are changed, your 
fires lit, your classrooms cleaned, and your food 
cooked by a group of magical creatures who are 
unpaid and enslaved?” she kept saying fiercely. 

Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Some people, like Neville, had paid up just to stop 
Hermione from glowering at them. A few seemed 
mildly interested in what she had to say, but were 
reluctant to take a more active role in campaigning. 
Many regarded the whole thing as a joke. 

Ron now rolled his eyes at the ceiling, which was 
flooding them all in autumn sunlight, and Fred 
became extremely interested in his bacon (both twins 
had refused to buy a S.P.E.W. badge). George, 
however, leaned in toward Hermione. 

“Listen, have you ever been down in the kitchens, 
Hermione?” 

“No, of course not,” said Hermione curtly, “I hardly 
think students are supposed to — ” 

“Well, we have,” said George, indicating Fred, “loads 
of times, to nick food. And we’ve met them, and 
they’re happy. They think they’ve got the best job in 
the world — ” 

“That’s because they’re uneducated and 
brainwashed!” Hermione began hotly, but her next 
few words were drowned out by the sudden 
whooshing noise from overhead, which announced 
the arrival of the post owls. Harry looked up at once, 
and saw Hedwig soaring toward him. Hermione 
stopped talking abruptly; she and Ron watched 
Hedwig anxiously as she fluttered down onto Harry’s 
shoulder, folded her wings, and held out her leg 
wearily. 

Harry pulled off Sirius’s reply and offered Hedwig his 
bacon rinds, which she ate gratefully. Then, checking 
that Fred and George were safely immersed in further 
discussions about the Tri-wizard Tournament, Harry 



Page | 265 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




read out Sirius’s letter in a whisper to Ron and 
Hermione. 



Nice try, Harry. 

I’m back in the country and well hidden. I want you to 
keep me posted on everything that’s going on at 
Hog warts. Don’t use Hedwig, keep changing owls, and 
don’t worry about me, just watch out for yourself. Don’t 
forget what I said about your scar. 

Sirius 

“Why d’you have to keep changing owls?” Ron asked 
in a low voice. 

“Hedwig’ll attract too much attention,” said Hermione 
at once. “She stands out. A snowy owl that keeps 
returning to wherever he’s hiding ... I mean, they’re 
not native birds, are they?” 

Harry rolled up the letter and slipped it inside his 
robes, wondering whether he felt more or less worried 
than before. He supposed that Sirius managing to get 
back without being caught was something. He 
couldn’t deny either that the idea that Sirius was 
much nearer was reassuring; at least he wouldn’t 
have to wait so long for a response every time he 
wrote. 

“Thanks, Hedwig,” he said, stroking her. She hooted 
sleepily, dipped her beak briefly into his goblet of 
orange juice, then took off again, clearly desperate for 
a good long sleep in the Owlery. 

There was a pleasant feeling of anticipation in the air 
that day. Nobody was very attentive in lessons, being 
much more interested in the arrival that evening of 
the people from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang; even 

Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Potions was more bearable than usual, as it was half 
an hour shorter. When the bell rang early, Harry, 

Ron, and Hermione hurried up to Gryffindor Tower, 
deposited their bags and books as they had been 
instructed, pulled on their cloaks, and rushed back 
downstairs into the entrance hall. 

The Heads of Houses were ordering their students 
into lines. 

“Weasley, straighten your hat,” Professor McGonagall 
snapped at Ron. “Miss Patil, take that ridiculous 
thing out of your hair.” 

Parvati scowled and removed a large ornamental 
butterfly from the end of her plait. 

“Follow me, please,” said Professor McGonagall. “First 
years in front ... no pushing. ...” 

They filed down the steps and lined up in front of the 
castle. It was a cold, clear evening; dusk was falling 
and a pale, transparent-looking moon was already 
shining over the Forbidden Forest. Harry, standing 
between Ron and Hermione in the fourth row from 
the front, saw Dennis Creevey positively shivering 
with anticipation among the other first years. 

“Nearly six,” said Ron, checking his watch and then 
staring down the drive that led to the front gates. 
“How d’you reckon they’re coming? The train?” 

“I doubt it,” said Hermione. 

“How, then? Broomsticks?” Harry suggested, looking 
up at the starry sky. 

“I don’t think so ... not from that far away. ...” 



Page | 267 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“A Portkey?” Ron suggested. “Or they could Apparate 
— maybe you’re allowed to do it under seventeen 
wherever they come from?” 

“You can’t Apparate inside the Hogwarts grounds, 
how often do I have to tell you?” said Hermione 
impatiently. 

They scanned the darkening grounds excitedly, but 
nothing was moving; everything was still, silent, and 
quite as usual. Harry was starting to feel cold. He 
wished they’d hurry up. ... Maybe the foreign 
students were preparing a dramatic entrance. ... He 
remembered what Mr. Weasley had said back at the 
campsite before the Quidditch World Cup: “always the 
same — we can’t resist showing off when we get 
together. ...” 

And then Dumbledore called out from the back row 
where he stood with the other teachers — 

“Aha! Unless I am very much mistaken, the delegation 
from Beauxbatons approaches!” 

“Where?” said many students eagerly, all looking in 
different directions. 

“There!” yelled a sixth year, pointing over the forest. 

Something large, much larger than a broomstick — 
or, indeed, a hundred broomsticks — was hurtling 
across the deep blue sky toward the castle, growing 
larger all the time. 

“It’s a dragon!” shrieked one of the first years, losing 
her head completely. 

“Don’t be stupid ... it’s a flying house!” said Dennis 
Creevey. 

Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dennis’s guess was closer. ... As the gigantic black 
shape skimmed over the treetops of the Forbidden 
Forest and the lights shining from the castle windows 
hit it, they saw a gigantic, powder-blue, horse-drawn 
carriage, the size of a large house, soaring toward 
them, pulled through the air by a dozen winged 
horses, all palominos, and each the size of an 
elephant. 

The front three rows of students drew backward as 
the carriage hurtled ever lower, coming in to land at a 
tremendous speed — then, with an almighty crash 
that made Neville jump backward onto a Slytherin 
fifth year’s foot, the horses’ hooves, larger than dinner 
plates, hit the ground. A second later, the carriage 
landed too, bouncing upon its vast wheels, while the 
golden horses tossed their enormous heads and rolled 
large, fiery red eyes. 

Harry just had time to see that the door of the 
carriage bore a coat of arms (two crossed, golden 
wands, each emitting three stars) before it opened. 

A boy in pale blue robes jumped down from the 
carriage, bent forward, fumbled for a moment with 
something on the carriage floor, and unfolded a set of 
golden steps. He sprang back respectfully. Then 
Harry saw a shining, high-heeled black shoe emerging 
from the inside of the carriage — a shoe the size of a 
child’s sled — followed, almost immediately, by the 
largest woman he had ever seen in his life. The size of 
the carriage, and of the horses, was immediately 
explained. A few people gasped. 

Harry had only ever seen one person as large as this 
woman in his life, and that was Hagrid; he doubted 
whether there was an inch difference in their heights. 
Yet somehow — maybe simply because he was used 
to Hagrid — this woman (now at the foot of the steps, 
Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




and looking around at the waiting, wide-eyed crowd) 
seemed even more unnaturally large. As she stepped 
into the light flooding from the entrance hall, she was 
revealed to have a handsome, olive-skinned face; 
large, black, liquid-looking eyes; and a rather beaky 
nose. Her hair was drawn back in a shining knob at 
the base of her neck. She was dressed from head to 
foot in black satin, and many magnificent opals 
gleamed at her throat and on her thick fingers. 

Dumbledore started to clap; the students, following 
his lead, broke into applause too, many of them 
standing on tiptoe, the better to look at this woman. 

Her face relaxed into a gracious smile and she walked 
forward toward Dumbledore, extending a glittering 
hand. Dumbledore, though tall himself, had barely to 
bend to kiss it. 

“My dear Madame Maxime,” he said. “Welcome to 
Hogwarts.” 

“Dumbly-dorr,” said Madame Maxime in a deep voice. 
“I ’ope I find you well?” 

“In excellent form, I thank you,” said Dumbledore. 

“My pupils,” said Madame Maxime, waving one of her 
enormous hands carelessly behind her. 

Harry, whose attention had been focused completely 
upon Madame Maxime, now noticed that about a 
dozen boys and girls, all, by the look of them, in their 
late teens, had emerged from the carriage and were 
now standing behind Madame Maxime. They were 
shivering, which was unsurprising, given that their 
robes seemed to be made of fine silk, and none of 
them were wearing cloaks. A few had wrapped scarves 
and shawls around their heads. From what Harry 
Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




could see of them (they were standing in Madame 
Maxime ’s enormous shadow), they were staring up at 
Hogwarts with apprehensive looks on their faces. 

“ ’As Karkaroff arrived yet?” Madame Maxime asked. 

“He should be here any moment,” said Dumbledore. 
“Would you like to wait here and greet him or would 
you prefer to step inside and warm up a trifle?” 

“Warm up, I think,” said Madame Maxime. “But ze 
’orses — ” 

“Our Care of Magical Creatures teacher will be 
delighted to take care of them,” said Dumbledore, “the 
moment he has returned from dealing with a slight 
situation that has arisen with some of his other — er 
— charges.” 

“Skrewts,” Ron muttered to Harry, grinning. 

“My steeds require — er — forceful ’andling,” said 
Madame Maxime, looking as though she doubted 
whether any Care of Magical Creatures teacher at 
Hogwarts could be up to the job. “Zey are very strong. 



“I assure you that Hagrid will be well up to the job,” 
said Dumbledore, smiling. 

“Very well,” said Madame Maxime, bowing slightly. 
“Will you please inform zis ’Agrid zat ze ’orses drink 
only single-malt whiskey?” 

“It will be attended to,” said Dumbledore, also bowing. 

“Come,” said Madame Maxime imperiously to her 
students, and the Hogwarts crowd parted to allow her 
and her students to pass up the stone steps. 

Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“How big d’you reckon Durmstrang’s horses are going 
to be?” Seamus Finnigan said, leaning around 
Lavender and Parvati to address Harry and Ron. 

“Well, if they’re any bigger than this lot, even Hagrid 
won’t be able to handle them,” said Harry. “That’s if 
he hasn’t been attacked by his skrewts. Wonder 
what’s up with them?” 

“Maybe they’ve escaped,” said Ron hopefully. 

“Oh don’t say that,” said Hermione with a shudder. 
“Imagine that lot loose on the grounds. ...” 

They stood, shivering slightly now, waiting for the 
Durmstrang party to arrive. Most people were gazing 
hopefully up at the sky. For a few minutes, the 
silence was broken only by Madame Maxime’s huge 
horses snorting and stamping. But then — 

“Can you hear something?” said Ron suddenly. 

Harry listened; a loud and oddly eerie noise was 
drifting toward them from out of the darkness: a 
muffled rumbling and sucking sound, as though an 
immense vacuum cleaner were moving along a 
riverbed. ... 

“The lake!” yelled Lee Jordan, pointing down at it. 
“Look at the lake!” 

From their position at the top of the lawns 
overlooking the grounds, they had a clear view of the 
smooth black surface of the water — except that the 
surface was suddenly not smooth at all. Some 
disturbance was taking place deep in the center; great 
bubbles were forming on the surface, waves were now 
washing over the muddy banks — and then, out in 
the very middle of the lake, a whirlpool appeared, as if 
Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




a giant plug had just been pulled out of the lake’s 
floor. ... 

What seemed to be a long, black pole began to rise 
slowly out of the heart of the whirlpool . . . and then 
Harry saw the rigging. . . . 

“It’s a mast!” he said to Ron and Hermione. 

Slowly, magnificently, the ship rose out of the water, 
gleaming in the moonlight. It had a strangely skeletal 
look about it, as though it were a resurrected wreck, 
and the dim, misty lights shimmering at its portholes 
looked like ghostly eyes. Finally, with a great sloshing 
noise, the ship emerged entirely, bobbing on the 
turbulent water, and began to glide toward the bank. 
A few moments later, they heard the splash of an 
anchor being thrown down in the shallows, and the 
thud of a plank being lowered onto the bank. 

People were disembarking; they could see their 
silhouettes passing the lights in the ship’s portholes. 
All of them, Harry noticed, seemed to be built along 
the lines of Crabbe and Goyle . . . but then, as they 
drew nearer, walking up the lawns into the light 
streaming from the entrance hall, he saw that their 
bulk was really due to the fact that they were wearing 
cloaks of some kind of shaggy, matted fur. But the 
man who was leading them up to the castle was 
wearing furs of a different sort: sleek and silver, like 
his hair. 

“Dumbledore!” he called heartily as he walked up the 
slope. “How are you, my dear fellow, how are you?” 

“Blooming, thank you, Professor Karkaroff,” 
Dumbledore replied. 



Page | 273 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Karkaroff had a fruity, unctuous voice; when he 
stepped into the light pouring from the front doors of 
the castle they saw that he was tall and thin like 
Dumbledore, but his white hair was short, and his 
goatee (finishing in a small curl) did not entirely hide 
his rather weak chin. When he reached Dumbledore, 
he shook hands with both of his own. 

“Dear old Hogwarts,” he said, looking up at the castle 
and smiling; his teeth were rather yellow, and Harry 
noticed that his smile did not extend to his eyes, 
which remained cold and shrewd. “How good it is to 
be here, how good. ... Viktor, come along, into the 
warmth ... you don’t mind, Dumbledore? Viktor has a 
slight head cold. ...” 

Karkaroff beckoned forward one of his students. As 
the boy passed, Harry caught a glimpse of a 
prominent curved nose and thick black eyebrows. He 
didn’t need the punch on the arm Ron gave him, or 
the hiss in his ear, to recognize that profile. 

“Harry — it’s Krum\” 



Page | 274 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




t'fyfflapier- l6 




THE GOBLET OF FIRE 

“I don’t believe it!” Ron said, in a stunned voice, as 
the Hogwarts students filed back up the steps behind 
the party from Durmstrang. “Krum, Harry! Viktor 
Kruml” 

“For heaven’s sake, Ron, he’s only a Quidditch 
player,” said Hermione. 

“Only a Quidditch player?” Ron said, looking at her as 
though he couldn’t believe his ears. “Hermione — he’s 
one of the best Seekers in the world! I had no idea he 
was still at school!” 

As they recrossed the entrance hall with the rest of 
the Hogwarts students heading for the Great Hall, 
Harry saw Lee Jordan jumping up and down on the 
soles of his feet to get a better look at the back of 
Krum’s head. Several sixth-year girls were frantically 
searching their pockets as they walked — 

“Oh I don’t believe it, I haven’t got a single quill on me 

?? 



Page | 275 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“D’you think he’d sign my hat in lipstick?” 



“Really,” Hermione said loftily as they passed the 
girls, now squabbling over the lipstick. 

“I’m getting his autograph if I can,” said Ron. “You 
haven’t got a quill, have you, Harry?” 

“Nope, they’re upstairs in my bag,” said Harry. 

They walked over to the Gryffindor table and sat 
down. Ron took care to sit on the side facing the 
doorway, because Krum and his fellow Durmstrang 
students were still gathered around it, apparently 
unsure about where they should sit. The students 
from Beauxbatons had chosen seats at the Ravenclaw 
table. They were looking around the Great Hall with 
glum expressions on their faces. Three of them were 
still clutching scarves and shawls around their heads. 

“It’s not that cold,” said Hermione defensively. “Why 
didn’t they bring cloaks?” 

“Over here! Come and sit over here!” Ron hissed. 

“Over here! Hermione, budge up, make a space — ” 

“What?” 

“Too late,” said Ron bitterly. 

Viktor Krum and his fellow Durmstrang students had 
settled themselves at the Slytherin table. Harry could 
see Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle looking very smug 
about this. As he watched, Malfoy bent forward to 
speak to Krum. 

“Yeah, that’s right, smarm up to him, Malfoy,” said 
Ron scathingly. “I bet Krum can see right through 
him, though ... bet he gets people fawning over him 

Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




all the time. ... Where d’you reckon they’re going to 
sleep? We could offer him a space in our dormitory, 
Harry ... I wouldn’t mind giving him my bed, I could 
kip on a camp bed.” 

Hermione snorted. 

“They look a lot happier than the Beauxbatons lot,” 
said Harry. 

The Durmstrang students were pulling off their heavy 
furs and looking up at the starry black ceiling with 
expressions of interest; a couple of them were picking 
up the golden plates and goblets and examining 
them, apparently impressed. 

Up at the staff table, Filch, the caretaker, was adding 
chairs. He was wearing his moldy old tailcoat in 
honor of the occasion. Harry was surprised to see 
that he added four chairs, two on either side of 
Dumbledore’s. 

“But there are only two extra people,” Harry said. 
“Why’s Filch putting out four chairs, who else is 
coming?” 

“Eh?” said Ron vaguely. He was still staring avidly at 
Krum. 

When all the students had entered the Hall and 
settled down at their House tables, the staff entered, 
filing up to the top table and taking their seats. Last 
in line were Professor Dumbledore, Professor 
Karkaroff, and Madame Maxime. When their 
headmistress appeared, the pupils from Beauxbatons 
leapt to their feet. A few of the Hogwarts students 
laughed. The Beauxbatons party appeared quite 
unembarrassed, however, and did not resume their 
seats until Madame Maxime had sat down on 
Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore ’s left-hand side. Dumbledore remained 
standing, and a silence fell over the Great Hall. 

“Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, ghosts and — 
most particularly — guests,” said Dumbledore, 
beaming around at the foreign students. “I have great 
pleasure in welcoming you all to Hogwarts. I hope and 
trust that your stay here will be both comfortable and 
enjoyable.” 

One of the Beauxbatons girls still clutching a muffler 
around her head gave what was unmistakably a 
derisive laugh. 

“No one’s making you stay!” Hermione whispered, 
bristling at her. 

“The tournament will be officially opened at the end of 
the feast,” said Dumbledore. “I now invite you all to 
eat, drink, and make yourselves at home!” 

He sat down, and Harry saw Karkaroff lean forward at 
once and engage him in conversation. 

The plates in front of them filled with food as usual. 
The house-elves in the kitchen seemed to have pulled 
out all the stops; there was a greater variety of dishes 
in front of them than Harry had ever seen, including 
several that were definitely foreign. 

“What’s that?” said Ron, pointing at a large dish of 
some sort of shellfish stew that stood beside a large 
steak-and-kidney pudding. 

“Bouillabaisse,” said Hermione. 

“Bless you,” said Ron. 



Page | 278 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s French,” said Hermione, “I had it on holiday 
summer before last. It’s very nice.” 

“I’ll take your word for it,” said Ron, helping himself 
to black pudding. 

The Great Hall seemed somehow much more crowded 
than usual, even though there were barely twenty 
additional students there; perhaps it was because 
their differently colored uniforms stood out so clearly 
against the black of the Hogwarts’ robes. Now that 
they had removed their furs, the Durmstrang 
students were revealed to be wearing robes of a deep 
bloodred. 

Hagrid sidled into the Hall through a door behind the 
staff table twenty minutes after the start of the feast. 
He slid into his seat at the end and waved at Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione with a very heavily bandaged 
hand. 

“Skrewts doing all right, Hagrid?” Harry called. 

“Thrivin’,” Hagrid called back happily. 

“Yeah, I’ll just bet they are,” said Ron quietly. “Looks 
like they’ve finally found a food they like, doesn’t it? 
Hagrid ’s fingers.” 

At that moment, a voice said, “Excuse me, are you 
wanting ze bouillabaisse?” 

It was the girl from Beauxbatons who had laughed 
during Dumbledore’s speech. She had finally removed 
her muffler. A long sheet of silvery-blonde hair fell 
almost to her waist. She had large, deep blue eyes, 
and very white, even teeth. 



Page | 279 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Ron went purple. He stared up at her, opened his 
mouth to reply, but nothing came out except a faint 
gurgling noise. 

“Yeah, have it,” said Harry, pushing the dish toward 
the girl. 

“You ’ave finished wiz it?” 

“Yeah,” Ron said breathlessly. “Yeah, it was 
excellent.” 

The girl picked up the dish and carried it carefully off 
to the Ravenclaw table. Ron was still goggling at the 
girl as though he had never seen one before. Harry 
started to laugh. The sound seemed to jog Ron back 
to his senses. 

“She’s a veelcd” he said hoarsely to Harry. 

“Of course she isn’t!” said Hermione tartly. “I don’t see 
anyone else gaping at her like an idiot!” 

But she wasn’t entirely right about that. As the girl 
crossed the Hall, many boys’ heads turned, and some 
of them seemed to have become temporarily 
speechless, just like Ron. 

“I’m telling you, that’s not a normal girl!” said Ron, 
leaning sideways so he could keep a clear view of her. 
“They don’t make them like that at Hogwarts!” 

“They make them okay at Hogwarts,” said Harry 
without thinking. Cho happened to be sitting only a 
few places away from the girl with the silvery hair. 

“When you’ve both put your eyes back in,” said 
Hermione briskly, “you’ll be able to see who’s just 
arrived.” 

Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She was pointing up at the staff table. The two 
remaining empty seats had just been filled. Ludo 
Bagman was now sitting on Professor Karkaroff’s 
other side, while Mr. Crouch, Percy’s boss, was next 
to Madame Maxime. 

“What are they doing here?” said Harry in surprise. 

“They organized the Triwizard Tournament, didn’t 
they?” said Hermione. “I suppose they wanted to be 
here to see it start.” 

When the second course arrived they noticed a 
number of unfamiliar desserts too. Ron examined an 
odd sort of pale blancmange closely, then moved it 
carefully a few inches to his right, so that it would be 
clearly visible from the Ravenclaw table. The girl who 
looked like a veela appeared to have eaten enough, 
however, and did not come over to get it. 

Once the golden plates had been wiped clean, 
Dumbledore stood up again. A pleasant sort of 
tension seemed to fill the Hall now. Harry felt a slight 
thrill of excitement, wondering what was coming. 
Several seats down from them, Fred and George were 
leaning forward, staring at Dumbledore with great 
concentration. 

“The moment has come,” said Dumbledore, smiling 
around at the sea of upturned faces. “The Triwizard 
Tournament is about to start. I would like to say a few 
words of explanation before we bring in the casket — ” 

“The what?” Harry muttered. 

Ron shrugged. 

“ — just to clarify the procedure that we will be 
following this year. But first, let me introduce, for 

Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




those who do not know them, Mr. Bartemius Crouch, 
Head of the Department of International Magical 
Cooperation” — there was a smattering of polite 
applause — “and Mr. Ludo Bagman, Head of the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports.” 

There was a much louder round of applause for 
Bagman than for Crouch, perhaps because of his 
fame as a Beater, or simply because he looked so 
much more likable. He acknowledged it with a jovial 
wave of his hand. Bartemius Crouch did not smile or 
wave when his name was announced. Remembering 
him in his neat suit at the Quidditch World Cup, 
Harry thought he looked strange in wizard’s robes. 

His toothbrush mustache and severe parting looked 
very odd next to Dumbledore’s long white hair and 
beard. 

“Mr. Bagman and Mr. Crouch have worked tirelessly 
over the last few months on the arrangements for the 
Triwizard Tournament,” Dumbledore continued, “and 
they will be joining myself, Professor Karkaroff, and 
Madame Maxime on the panel that will judge the 
champions’ efforts.” 

At the mention of the word “champions,” the 
attentiveness of the listening students seemed to 
sharpen. Perhaps Dumbledore had noticed their 
sudden stillness, for he smiled as he said, “The 
casket, then, if you please, Mr. Filch.” 

Filch, who had been lurking unnoticed in a far corner 
of the Hall, now approached Dumbledore carrying a 
great wooden chest encrusted with jewels. It looked 
extremely old. A murmur of excited interest rose from 
the watching students; Dennis Creevey actually stood 
on his chair to see it properly, but, being so tiny, his 
head hardly rose above anyone else’s. 



Page | 282 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“The instructions for the tasks the champions will 
face this year have already been examined by Mr. 
Crouch and Mr. Bagman,” said Dumbledore as Filch 
placed the chest carefully on the table before him, 

“and they have made the necessary arrangements for 
each challenge. There will be three tasks, spaced 
throughout the school year, and they will test the 
champions in many different ways . . . their magical 
