Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again. 

“We could phone Marge,” Uncle Vernon suggested. 

“Don’t be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy.” 

The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as 
though he wasn’t there — or rather, as though he was 
something very nasty that couldn’t understand them, 
like a slug. 

“What about what’s-her-name, your friend — 
Yvonne?” 

“On vacation in Majorca,” snapped Aunt Petunia. 

“You could just leave me here,” Harry put in hopefully 
(he’d be able to watch what he wanted on television 
for a change and maybe even have a go on Dudley’s 
computer) . 

Aunt Petunia looked as though she’d just swallowed a 
lemon. 

“And come back and find the house in ruins?” she 
snarled. 

“I won’t blow up the house,” said Harry, but they 
weren’t listening. 

“I suppose we could take him to the zoo,” said Aunt 
Petunia slowly, "... and leave him in the car. ...” 

“That cars new, he’s not sitting in it alone. ...” 



Page | 25 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn’t really 
crying — it had been years since he’d really cried — 
but he knew that if he screwed up his face and 
wailed, his mother would give him anything he 
wanted. 

“Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him 
spoil your special day!” she cried, flinging her arms 
around him. 

“I ... don’t ... want ... him ... t-t-to come!” Dudley 
yelled between huge, pretend sobs. “He always sp- 
spoils everything!” He shot Harry a nasty grin through 
the gap in his mothers arms. 

Just then, the doorbell rang — “Oh, good Lord, 
they’re here!” said Aunt Petunia frantically — and a 
moment later, Dudley’s best friend, Piers Polkiss, 
walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy 
with a face like a rat. He was usually the one who 
held people’s arms behind their backs while Dudley 
hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once. 

Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe his 
luck, was sitting in the back of the Dursleys’ car with 
Piers and Dudley, on the way to the zoo for the first 
time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn’t been able 
to think of anything else to do with him, but before 
they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside. 

“I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large 
purple face right up close to Harry’s, “I’m warning you 
now, boy — any funny business, anything at all — 
and you’ll be in that cupboard from now until 
Christmas.” 

I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, “honestly 



Page | 26 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did. 



The problem was, strange things often happened 
around Harry and it was just no good telling the 
Dursleys he didn’t make them happen. 

Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from 
the barbers looking as though he hadn’t been at all, 
had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut his hair 
so short he was almost bald except for his bangs, 
which she left “to hide that horrible scar.” Dudley had 
laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless 
night imagining school the next day, where he was 
already laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped 
glasses. Next morning, however, he had gotten up to 
find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt 
Petunia had sheared it off. He had been given a week 
in his cupboard for this, even though he had tried to 
explain that he couldn’t explain how it had grown 
back so quickly. 

Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force 
him into a revolting old sweater of Dudley’s (brown 
with orange puff balls). The harder she tried to pull it 
over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, until 
finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but 
certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided 
it must have shrunk in the wash and, to his great 
relief, Harry wasn’t punished. 

On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble 
for being found on the roof of the school kitchens. 
Dudley’s gang had been chasing him as usual when, 
as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone else’s, there he 
was sitting on the chimney. The Dursleys had 
received a very angry letter from Harry’s headmistress 
telling them Harry had been climbing school 
buildings. But all he’d tried to do (as he shouted at 
Uncle Vernon through the locked door of his 
Page | 27 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




cupboard) was jump behind the big trash cans 
outside the kitchen doors. Harry supposed that the 
wind must have caught him in mid-jump. 

But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even 
worth being with Dudley and Piers to be spending the 
day somewhere that wasn’t school, his cupboard, or 
Mrs. Figg’s cabbage-smelling living room. 

While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt 
Petunia. He liked to complain about things: people at 
work, Harry, the council, Harry, the bank, and Harry 
were just a few of his favorite subjects. This morning, 
it was motorcycles. 

"... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,” 
he said, as a motorcycle overtook them. 

“I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry, 
remembering suddenly. “It was flying.” 

Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He 
turned right around in his seat and yelled at Harry, 
his face like a gigantic beet with a mustache: 
“MOTORCYCLES DONT FLY!” 

Dudley and Piers sniggered. 

“I know they don’t,” said Harry. “It was only a dream.” 

But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was 
one thing the Dursleys hated even more than his 
asking questions, it was his talking about anything 
acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was in a 
dream or even a cartoon — they seemed to think he 
might get dangerous ideas. 

It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was 
crowded with families. The Dursleys bought Dudley 

Page | 28 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance 
and then, because the smiling lady in the van had 
asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry 
him away, they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. It 
wasn’t bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they 
watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked 
remarkably like Dudley, except that it wasn’t blond. 

Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. 
He was careful to walk a little way apart from the 
Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who were starting 
to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t 
fall back on their favorite hobby of hitting him. They 
ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley had a 
tantrum because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have 
enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought him 
another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first. 

Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it 
was all too good to last. 

After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool 
and dark in there, with lit windows all along the 
walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and snakes 
were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and 
stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, 
poisonous cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons. 
Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the place. It 
could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle 
Vernon’s car and crushed it into a trash can — but at 
the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was 
fast asleep. 

Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, 
staring at the glistening brown coils. 

“Make it move,” he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon 
tapped on the glass, but the snake didn’t budge. 



Page | 29 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Do it again,” Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped 
the glass smartly with his knuckles, but the snake 
just snoozed on. 

“This is boring,” Dudley moaned. He shuffled away. 

Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently 
at the snake. He wouldn’t have been surprised if it 
had died of boredom itself — no company except 
stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass 
trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than 
having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only 
visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to 
wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the 
house. 

The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, 
very slowly, it raised its head until its eyes were on a 
level with Harry’s. 

It winked. 

Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if 
anyone was watching. They weren’t. He looked back 
at the snake and winked, too. 

The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and 
Dudley, then raised its eyes to the ceiling. It gave 
Harry a look that said quite plainly: 

“I get that all the time.” 

“I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though 
he wasn’t sure the snake could hear him. “It must be 
really annoying.” 

The snake nodded vigorously. 

“Where do you come from, anyway?” Harry asked. 

Page | 30 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the 
glass. Harry peered at it. 

Boa Constrictor, Brazil. 

“Was it nice there?” 

The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again 
and Harry read on: This specimen was bred in the 
zoo. “Oh, I see — so you’ve never been to Brazil?” 

As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout 
behind Harry made both of them jump. “DUDLEY! 
MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! 
YOU WONT BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING!” 

Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he 
could. 

“Out of the way, you,” he said, punching Harry in the 
ribs. Caught by surprise, Harry fell hard on the 
concrete floor. What came next happened so fast no 
one saw how it happened — one second, Piers and 
Dudley were leaning right up close to the glass, the 
next, they had leapt back with howls of horror. 

Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa 
constrictor’s tank had vanished. The great snake was 
uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the floor. 
People throughout the reptile house screamed and 
started running for the exits. 

As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have 
sworn a low, hissing voice said, “Brazil, here I come. 
... Thanksss, amigo.” 

The keeper of the reptile house was in shock. 



Page | 31 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass 
go?” " 

The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of 
strong, sweet tea while he apologized over and over 
again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber. As far as 
Harry had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything 
except snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but 
by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car, 
Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off 
his leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to 
squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at 
least, was Piers calming down enough to say, “Harry 
was talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?” 

Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the 
house before starting on Harry. He was so angry he 
could hardly speak. He managed to say, “Go — 
cupboard — stay — no meals,” before he collapsed 
into a chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get 
him a large brandy. 

Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing 
he had a watch. He didn’t know what time it was and 
he couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet. 

Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking to the 
kitchen for some food. 

He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten 
miserable years, as long as he could remember, ever 
since he’d been a baby and his parents had died in 
that car crash. He couldn’t remember being in the car 
when his parents had died. Sometimes, when he 
strained his memory during long hours in his 
cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a 
blinding flash of green light and a burning pain on his 
forehead. This, he supposed, was the crash, though 
he couldn’t imagine where all the green light came 
from. He couldn’t remember his parents at all. His 
Page | 32 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




aunt and uncle never spoke about them, and of 
course he was forbidden to ask questions. There were 
no photographs of them in the house. 

When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and 
dreamed of some unknown relation coming to take 
him away, but it had never happened; the Dursleys 
were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or 
maybe hoped) that strangers in the street seemed to 
know him. Very strange strangers they were, too. A 
tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once 
while out shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. 
After asking Harry furiously if he knew the man, Aunt 
Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without 
buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed 
all in green had waved merrily at him once on a bus. 

A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually 
shaken his hand in the street the other day and then 
walked away without a word. The weirdest thing 
about all these people was the way they seemed to 
vanish the second Harry tried to get a closer look. 

At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that 
Dudley’s gang hated that odd Harry Potter in his 
baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and nobody 
liked to disagree with Dudley’s gang. 



Page | 33 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




3 




THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE 

The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned 
Harry his longest-ever punishment. By the time he 
was allowed out of his cupboard again, the summer 
holidays had started and Dudley had already broken 
his new video camera, crashed his remote control 
airplane, and, first time out on his racing bike, 
knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed Privet 
Drive on her crutches. 

Harry was glad school was over, but there was no 
escaping Dudley’s gang, who visited the house every 
single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon were 
all big and stupid, but as Dudley was the biggest and 
stupidest of the lot, he was the leader. The rest of 
them were all quite happy to join in Dudley’s favorite 
sport: Harry Hunting. 

This was why Harry spent as much time as possible 
out of the house, wandering around and thinking 
about the end of the holidays, where he could see a 
tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be 
going off to secondary school and, for the first time in 
Page | 34 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



his life, he wouldn’t be with Dudley. Dudley had been 
accepted at Uncle Vernon’s old private school, 
Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry, 
on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the 
local public school. Dudley thought this was very 
funny. 

“They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day 
at Stonewall,” he told Harry. “Want to come upstairs 
and practice?” 

“No, thanks,” said Harry. “The poor toilet’s never had 
anything as horrible as your head down it — it might 
be sick.” Then he ran, before Dudley could work out 
what he’d said. 

One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London 
to buy his Smeltings uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs. 
Figg’s. Mrs. Figg wasn’t as bad as usual. It turned out 
she’d broken her leg tripping over one of her cats, and 
she didn’t seem quite as fond of them as before. She 
let Harry watch television and gave him a bit of 
chocolate cake that tasted as though she’d had it for 
several years. 

That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room 
for the family in his brand-new uniform. Smeltings 
boys wore maroon tailcoats, orange knickerbockers, 
and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carried 
knobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while the 
teachers weren’t looking. This was supposed to be 
good training for later life. 

As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, 
Uncle Vernon said gruffly that it was the proudest 
moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst into tears and 
said she couldn’t believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins, 
he looked so handsome and grown-up. Harry didn’t 



Page | 35 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




trust himself to speak. He thought two of his ribs 
might already have cracked from trying not to laugh. 



k k k 



There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next 
morning when Harry went in for breakfast. It seemed 
to be coming from a large metal tub in the sink. He 
went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked 
like dirty rags swimming in gray water. 

“What’s this?” he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips 
tightened as they always did if he dared to ask a 
question. 

“Your new school uniform,” she said. 

Harry looked in the bowl again. 

“Oh,” he said, “I didn’t realize it had to be so wet.” 

“Don’t be stupid,” snapped Aunt Petunia. “I’m dyeing 
some of Dudley’s old things gray for you. It’ll look just 
like everyone else’s when I’ve finished.” 

Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not 
to argue. He sat down at the table and tried not to 
think about how he was going to look on his first day 
at Stonewall High — like he was wearing bits of old 
elephant skin, probably. 

Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with 
wrinkled noses because of the smell from Harry’s new 
uniform. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as 
usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which 
he carried everywhere, on the table. 

They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters 
on the doormat. 

Page | 36 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Get the mail, Dudley,” said Uncle Vernon from 
behind his paper. 

“Make Harry get it.” 

“Get the mail, Harry.” 

“Make Dudley get it.” 

“Poke him with your Smelting stick, Dudley.” 

Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the 
mail. Three things lay on the doormat: a postcard 
from Uncle Vernon’s sister Marge, who was 
vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope 
that looked like a bill, and — a letter for Harry. 

Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging 
like a giant elastic band. No one, ever, in his whole 
life, had written to him. Who would? He had no 
friends, no other relatives — he didn’t belong to the 
library, so he’d never even got rude notes asking for 
books back. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed so 
plainly there could be no mistake: 

Mr. H. Potter 

The Cupboard under the Stairs 
4 Privet Drive 
Little Whinging 
Surrey 

The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish 
parchment, and the address was written in emerald- 
green ink. There was no stamp. 



Page | 37 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry 
saw a purple wax seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, 
an eagle, a badger, and a snake surrounding a large 
letter H. 

“Hurry up, boy!” shouted Uncle Vernon from the 
kitchen. “What are you doing, checking for letter 
bombs?” He chuckled at his own joke. 

Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his 
letter. He handed Uncle Vernon the bill and the 
postcard, sat down, and slowly began to open the 
yellow envelope. 

Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, 
and flipped over the postcard. 

“Marge’s ill,” he informed Aunt Petunia. “Ate a funny 
whelk ...” 

“Dad!” said Dudley suddenly. “Dad, Harry’s got 
something!” 

Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which 
was written on the same heavy parchment as the 
envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of his hand 
by Uncle Vernon. 

“That’s mine\” said Harry, trying to snatch it back. 

“Who’d be writing to you?” sneered Uncle Vernon, 
shaking the letter open with one hand and glancing at 
it. His face went from red to green faster than a set of 
traffic lights. And it didn’t stop there. Within seconds 
it was the grayish white of old porridge. 

“P-P-Petunia!” he gasped. 



Page | 38 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle 
Vernon held it high out of his reach. Aunt Petunia 
took it curiously and read the first line. For a moment 
it looked as though she might faint. She clutched her 
throat and made a choking noise. 

“Vernon! Oh my goodness — Vernon!” 

They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten 
that Harry and Dudley were still in the room. Dudley 
wasn’t used to being ignored. He gave his father a 
sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stick. 

“I want to read that letter,” he said loudly. 

“I want to read it,” said Harry furiously, “as it’s mine.” 

“Get out, both of you,” croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing 
the letter back inside its envelope. 

Harry didn’t move. 

“I WANT MY LETTER!” he shouted. 

“Let me see it!” demanded Dudley. 

“OUT!” roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry 
and Dudley by the scruffs of their necks and threw 
them into the hall, slamming the kitchen door behind 
them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but 
silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; 
Dudley won, so Harry, his glasses dangling from one 
ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen at the crack 
between door and floor. 

“Vernon,” Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering 
voice, “look at the address — how could they possibly 
know where he sleeps? You don’t think they’re 
watching the house?” 

Page | 39 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Watching — spying — might be following us,” 
muttered Uncle Vernon wildly. 

“But what should we do, Vernon? Should we write 
back? Tell them we don’t want — ” 

Harry could see Uncle Vernon’s shiny black shoes 
pacing up and down the kitchen. 

“No,” he said finally. “No, we’ll ignore it. If they don’t 
get an answer. ... Yes, that’s best ... we won’t do 
anything. ...” 

“But — ” 

“I’m not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn’t we 
swear when we took him in we’d stamp out that 
dangerous nonsense?” 

That evening when he got back from work, Uncle 
Vernon did something he’d never done before; he 
visited Harry in his cupboard. 

“Where’s my letter?” said Harry, the moment Uncle 
Vernon had squeezed through the door. “Who’s 
writing to me?” 

“No one. It was addressed to you by mistake,” said 
Uncle Vernon shortly. “I have burned it.” 

“It was not a mistake,” said Harry angrily, “it had my 
cupboard on it.” 

“SILENCE!” yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of 
spiders fell from the ceiling. He took a few deep 
breaths and then forced his face into a smile, which 
looked quite painful. 



Page | 40 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — yes, Harry — about this cupboard. Your aunt 
and I have been thinking ... you’re really getting a bit 
big for it . . . we think it might be nice if you moved 
into Dudley’s second bedroom.” 

“Why?” said Harry. 

“Don’t ask questions!” snapped his uncle. “Take this 
stuff upstairs, now.” 

The Dursleys’ house had four bedrooms: one for 
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia, one for visitors 
(usually Uncle Vernon’s sister, Marge), one where 
Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all the toys 
and things that wouldn’t fit into his first bedroom. It 
only took Harry one trip upstairs to move everything 
he owned from the cupboard to this room. He sat 
down on the bed and stared around him. Nearly 
everything in here was broken. The month-old video 
camera was lying on top of a small, working tank 
Dudley had once driven over the next door neighbor’s 
dog; in the corner was Dudley’s first-ever television 
set, which he’d put his foot through when his favorite 
program had been canceled; there was a large 
birdcage, which had once held a parrot that Dudley 
had swapped at school for a real air rifle, which was 
up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudley 
had sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. They 
were the only things in the room that looked as 
though they’d never been touched. 

From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling 
at his mother, “I don’t want him in there ... I need 
that room ... make him get out. ...” 

Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday 
he’d have given anything to be up here. Today he’d 
rather be back in his cupboard with that letter than 
up here without it. 

Page | 41 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. 
Dudley was in shock. He’d screamed, whacked his 
father with his Smelting stick, been sick on purpose, 
kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through 
the greenhouse roof, and he still didn’t have his room 
back. Harry was thinking about this time yesterday 
and bitterly wishing he’d opened the letter in the hall. 
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each 
other darkly. 

When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to 
be trying to be nice to Harry, made Dudley go and get 
it. They heard him banging things with his Smelting 
stick all the way down the hall. Then he shouted, 
“There’s another one! ‘Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest 
Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive — ’ ” 

With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his 
seat and ran down the hall, Harry right behind him. 
Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the ground to 
get the letter from him, which was made difficult by 
the fact that Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around 
the neck from behind. After a minute of confused 
fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the 
Smelting stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up, 
gasping for breath, with Harry’s letter clutched in his 
hand. 

“Go to your cupboard — I mean, your bedroom,” he 
wheezed at Harry. “Dudley — go — just go.” 

Harry walked round and round his new room. 
Someone knew he had moved out of his cupboard and 
they seemed to know he hadn’t received his first 
letter. Surely that meant they’d try again? And this 
time he’d make sure they didn’t fail. He had a plan. 

The repaired alarm clock rang at six o’clock the next 
morning. Harry turned it off quickly and dressed 

Page | 42 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




silently. He mustn’t wake the Dursleys. He stole 
downstairs without turning on any of the lights. 

He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of 
Privet Drive and get the letters for number four first. 
His heart hammered as he crept across the dark hall 
toward the front door — 

“AAAAARRRGH ! ” 

Harry leapt into the air; he’d trodden on something 
big and squashy on the doormat — something alive\ 

Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry 
realized that the big, squashy something had been his 
uncle’s face. Uncle Vernon had been lying at the foot 
of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making 
sure that Harry didn’t do exactly what he’d been 
trying to do. He shouted at Harry for about half an 
hour and then told him to go and make a cup of tea. 
Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by 
the time he got back, the mail had arrived, right into 
Uncle Vernon’s lap. Harry could see three letters 
addressed in green ink. 

“I want — ” he began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing 
the letters into pieces before his eyes. 

Uncle Vernon didn’t go to work that day. He stayed at 
home and nailed up the mail slot. 

“See,” he explained to Aunt Petunia through a 
mouthful of nails, “if they can’t deliver them they’ll 
just give up.” 

“I’m not sure that’ll work, Vernon.” 

“Oh, these peoples minds work in strange ways, 
Petunia, they’re not like you and me,” said Uncle 

Page | 43 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 




Vernon, trying to knock in a nail with the piece of 
fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him. 

On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for 
Harry. As they couldn’t go through the mail slot they 
had been pushed under the door, slotted through the 
sides, and a few even forced through the small 
window in the downstairs bathroom. 

Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all 
the letters, he got out a hammer and nails and 
boarded up the cracks around the front and back 
doors so no one could go out. He hummed “Tiptoe 
Through the Tulips” as he worked, and jumped at 
small noises. 

On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. 
Twenty-four letters to Harry found their way into the 
house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two 
dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had 
handed Aunt Petunia through the living room 
window. While Uncle Vernon made furious telephone 
calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find 
someone to complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded the 
letters in her food processor. 

“Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?” 
Dudley asked Harry in amazement. 



•k k k 



On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the 
breakfast table looking tired and rather ill, but happy. 

“No post on Sundays,” he reminded them cheerfully 
as he spread marmalade on his newspapers, “no 
damn letters today — ” 



Page | 44 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney 
as he spoke and caught him sharply on the back of 
the head. Next moment, thirty or forty letters came 
pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys 
ducked, but Harry leapt into the air trying to catch 
one — 

“Out! OUT!” 

Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and 
threw him into the hall. When Aunt Petunia and 
Dudley had run out with their arms over their faces, 
Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They could 
hear the letters still streaming into the room, 
bouncing off the walls and floor. 

“That does it,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak 
calmly but pulling great tufts out of his mustache at 
the same time. “I want you all back here in five 
minutes ready to leave. We’re going away. Just pack 
some clothes. No arguments!” 

He looked so dangerous with half his mustache 
missing that no one dared argue. Ten minutes later 
they had wrenched their way through the boarded-up 
doors and were in the car, speeding toward the 
highway. Dudley was sniffling in the back seat; his 
father had hit him round the head for holding them 
up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, and 
computer in his sports bag. 

They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn’t 
dare ask where they were going. Every now and then 
Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn and drive in 
the opposite direction for a while. 

“Shake ’em off ... shake ’em off,” he would mutter 
whenever he did this. 



Page | 45 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




They didn’t stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall 
Dudley was howling. He’d never had such a bad day 
in his life. He was hungry, he’d missed five television 
programs he’d wanted to see, and he’d never gone so 
long without blowing up an alien on his computer. 

Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomy- 
looking hotel on the outskirts of a big city. Dudley 
and Harry shared a room with twin beds and damp, 
musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake, 
sitting on the windowsill, staring down at the lights of 
passing cars and wondering... 

They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on 
toast for breakfast the next day. They had just 
finished when the owner of the hotel came over to 
their table. 

“ ’Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter? Only I 
got about an ’undred of these at the front desk.” 

She held up a letter so they could read the green ink 
address: 

Mr. H. Potter 

Room 1 7 

Railview Hotel 

Cokeworth 

Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon 
knocked his hand out of the way. The woman stared. 

“I’ll take them,” said Uncle Vernon, standing up 
quickly and following her from the dining room. 

•k k k 

Page | 46 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear?” Aunt 
Petunia suggested timidly, hours later, but Uncle 
Vernon didn’t seem to hear her. Exactly what he was 
looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into 
the middle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook 
his head, got back in the car, and off they went again. 
The same thing happened in the middle of a plowed 
field, halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the 
top of a multilevel parking garage. 

“Daddy’s gone mad, hasn’t he?” Dudley asked Aunt 
Petunia dully late that afternoon. Uncle Vernon had 
parked at the coast, locked them all inside the car, 
and disappeared. 

It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the 
car. Dudley sniveled. 

“It’s Monday,” he told his mother. “The Great 
Humberto’s on tonight. I want to stay somewhere with 
a television.” 

Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was 
Monday — and you could usually count on Dudley to 
know the days of the week, because of television — 
