



Simultaneously they walked forward and hugged, 
Harry gripping the still-sopping back of Ron’s jacket. 

“And now,” said Harry as they broke apart, “all we’ve 
got to do is find the tent again.” 

But it was not difficult. Though the walk through the 
dark forest with the doe had seemed lengthy, with 
Ron by his side the journey back seemed to take a 
surprisingly short time. Harry could not wait to wake 
Hermione, and it was with quickening excitement that 
he entered the tent, Ron lagging a little behind him. 

It was gloriously warm after the pool and the forest, 
the only illumination the bluebell flames still 
shimmering in a bowl on the floor. Hermione was fast 
asleep, curled up under her blankets, and did not 
move until Harry had said her name several times. 

“Hermionel” 

She stirred, then sat up quickly, pushing her hair out 
of her face. 

“What’s wrong? Harry? Are you all right?” 

“It’s okay, everything’s fine. More than fine. I’m great. 
There’s someone here.” 

“What do you mean? Who — ?” 

She saw Ron, who stood there holding the sword and 
dripping onto the threadbare carpet. Harry backed 
into a shadowy corner, slipped off Ron’s rucksack, 
and attempted to blend in with the canvas. 

Hermione slid out of her bunk and moved like a 
sleepwalker toward Ron, her eyes upon his pale face. 
She stopped right in front of him, her lips slightly 

Page | 427 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




parted, her eyes wide. Ron gave a weak, hopeful smile 
and half raised his arms. 

Hermione launched herself forward and started 
punching every inch of him that she could reach. 

“Ouch — ow — gerroff! What the — ? Hermione — 
OW!” 

“You — complete — arse — Ronald — Weasley!” 

She punctuated every word with a blow: Ron backed 
away, shielding his head as Hermione advanced. 

“You — crawl — back — here — after — weeks — and 
— weeks — oh, where’s my wand?” 

She looked as though ready to wrestle it out of 
Harry’s hands and he reacted instinctively. 

“Protegol” 

The invisible shield erupted between Ron and 
Hermione: The force of it knocked her backward onto 
the floor. Spitting hair out of her mouth, she leapt up 
again. 

“Hermione!” said Harry. “Calm — ” 

“I will not calm down!” she screamed. Never before 
had he seen her lose control like this; she looked 
quite demented. “Give me back my wand! Give it back 
to me\” 

“Hermione, will you please — ” 

“Don’t you tell me what to do, Harry Potter!” she 
screeched. “Don’t you dare! Give it back now! And 
YOU!” 

Page | 428 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




She was pointing at Ron in dire accusation: It was 
like a malediction, and Harry could not blame Ron for 
retreating several steps. 

“I came running after you! I called you! I begged you 
to come back!” 

“I know,” Ron said, “Hermione, I’m sorry, I’m really — 



“Oh, you’re sorry!” 

She laughed, a high-pitched, out-of-control sound; 
Ron looked at Harry for help, but Harry merely 
grimaced his helplessness. 

“You come back after weeks — weeks — and you 
think it’s all going to be all right if you just say 
sorry?” 

“Well, what else can I say?” Ron shouted, and Harry 
was glad that Ron was fighting back. 

“Oh, I don’t know!” yelled Hermione with awful 
sarcasm. “Rack your brains, Ron, that should only 
take a couple of seconds — ” 

“Hermione,” interjected Harry, who considered this a 
low blow, “he just saved my — ” 

“I don’t care!” she screamed. “I don’t care what he’s 
done! Weeks and weeks, we could have been dead for 
all he knew — ” 

“I knew you weren’t dead!” bellowed Ron, drowning 
her voice for the first time, and approaching as close 
as he could with the Shield Charm between them. 
“Harry’s all over the Prophet, all over the radio, they’re 
looking for you everywhere, all these rumors and 
Page | 429 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




mental stories, I knew I’d hear straight off if you were 
dead, you don’t know what it’s been like — ” 



“What it’s been like for you?” 

Her voice was now so shrill only bats would be able to 
hear it soon, but she had reached a level of 
indignation that rendered her temporarily speechless, 
and Ron seized his opportunity. 

“I wanted to come back the minute I’d Disapparated, 
but I walked straight into a gang of Snatchers, 
Hermione, and I couldn’t go anywhere!” 

“A gang of what?” asked Harry, as Hermione threw 
herself down into a chair with her arms and legs 
crossed so tightly it seemed unlikely that she would 
unravel them for several years. 

“Snatchers,” said Ron. “They’re everywhere — gangs 
trying to earn gold by rounding up Muggle-borns and 
blood traitors, there’s a reward from the Ministry for 
everyone captured. I was on my own and I look like I 
might be school age; they got really excited, thought I 
was a Muggle-born in hiding. I had to talk fast to get 
out of being dragged to the Ministry.” 

“What did you say to them?” 

“Told them I was Stan Shunpike. First person I could 
think of.” 

“And they believed that?” 

“They weren’t the brightest. One of them was 
definitely part troll, the smell off him. ...” 

Ron glanced at Hermione, clearly hopeful she might 
soften at this small instance of humor, but her 

Page | 430 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




expression remained stony above her tightly knotted 
limbs. 

“Anyway, they had a row about whether I was Stan or 
not. It was a bit pathetic to be honest, but there were 
still five of them and only one of me and they’d taken 
my wand. Then two of them got into a fight and while 
the others were distracted I managed to hit the one 
holding me in the stomach, grabbed his wand, 
Disarmed the bloke holding mine, and Disapparated. 

I didn’t do it so well, Splinched myself again” — Ron 
held up his right hand to show two missing 
fingernails; Hermione raised her eyebrows coldly — 
“and I came out miles from where you were. By the 
time I got back to that bit of riverbank where we’d 
been ... you’d gone.” 

“Gosh, what a gripping story,” Hermione said in the 
lofty voice she adopted when wishing to wound. “You 
must have been simply terrified. Meanwhile we went 
to Godric’s Hollow and, let’s think, what happened 
there, Harry? Oh yes, You-Know- Who’s snake turned 
up, it nearly killed both of us, and then You-Know- 
Who himself arrived and missed us by about a 
second.” 

“What?” Ron said, gaping from her to Harry, but 
Hermione ignored him. 

“Imagine losing fingernails, Harry! That really puts 
our sufferings into perspective, doesn’t it?” 

“Hermione,” said Harry quietly, “Ron just saved my 
life.” 

She appeared not to have heard him. 

“One thing I would like to know, though,” she said, 
fixing her eyes on a spot a foot over Ron’s head. “How 

Page | 431 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




exactly did you find us tonight? That’s important. 

Once we know, we’ll be able to make sure we’re not 
visited by anyone else we don’t want to see.” 

Ron glared at her, then pulled a small silver object 
from his jeans pocket. 

“This.” 

She had to look at Ron to see what he was showing 
them. 

“The Deluminator?” she asked, so surprised she 
forgot to look cold and fierce. 

“It doesn’t just turn the lights on and off,” said Ron. “I 
don’t know how it works or why it happened then and 
not any other time, because I’ve been wanting to come 
back ever since I left. But I was listening to the radio 
really early on Christmas morning and I heard ... I 
heard you.” 

He was looking at Hermione. 

“You heard me on the radio?” she asked 
incredulously. 

“No, I heard you coming out of my pocket. Your 
voice,” he held up the Deluminator again, “came out 
of this.” 

“And what exactly did I say?” asked Hermione, her 
tone somewhere between skepticism and curiosity. 

“My name. ‘Ron.’ And you said ... something about a 
wand. ...” 

Hermione turned a fiery shade of scarlet. Harry 
remembered: It had been the first time Ron’s name 

Page | 432 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




had been said aloud by either of them since the day 
he had left; Hermione had mentioned it when talking 
about repairing Harry’s wand. 

“So I took it out,” Ron went on, looking at the 
Deluminator, “and it didn’t seem different or 
anything, but I was sure I’d heard you. So I clicked it. 
And the light went out in my room, but another light 
appeared right outside the window.” 

Ron raised his empty hand and pointed in front of 
him, his eyes focused on something neither Harry nor 
Hermione could see. 

“It was a ball of light, kind of pulsing, and bluish, like 
that light you get around a Portkey, you know?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry and Hermione together 
automatically. 

“I knew this was it,” said Ron. “I grabbed my stuff and 
packed it, then I put on my rucksack and went out 
into the garden. 

“The little ball of light was hovering there, waiting for 
me, and when I came out it bobbed along a bit and I 
followed it behind the shed and then it ... well, it went 
inside me.” 

“Sorry?” said Harry, sure he had not heard correctly. 

“It sort of floated toward me,” said Ron, illustrating 
the movement with his free index finger, “right to my 
chest, and then — it just went straight through. It 
was here,” he touched a point close to his heart, “I 
could feel it, it was hot. And once it was inside me I 
knew what I was supposed to do, I knew it would take 
me where I needed to go. So I Disapparated and came 



Page | 433 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




out on the side of a hill. There was snow everywhere. 



“We were there,” said Harry. “We spent two nights 
there, and the second night I kept thinking I could 
hear someone moving around in the dark and calling 
out!” 

“Yeah, well, that would’ve been me,” said Ron. “Your 
protective spells work, anyway, because I couldn’t see 
you and I couldn’t hear you. I was sure you were 
around, though, so in the end I got in my sleeping bag 
and waited for one of you to appear. I thought you’d 
have to show yourselves when you packed up the 
tent.” 

“No, actually,” said Hermione. “We’ve been 
Disapparating under the Invisibility Cloak as an extra 
precaution. And we left really early, because, as Harry 
says, we’d heard somebody blundering around.” 

“Well, I stayed on that hill all day,” said Ron. “I kept 
hoping you’d appear. But when it started to get dark I 
knew I must have missed you, so I clicked the 
Deluminator again, the blue light came out and went 
inside me, and I Disapparated and arrived here in 
these woods. I still couldn’t see you, so I just had to 
hope one of you would show yourselves in the end — 
and Harry did. Well, I saw the doe first, obviously.” 

“You saw the what?” said Hermione sharply. 

They explained what had happened, and as the story 
of the silver doe and the sword in the pool unfolded, 
Hermione frowned from one to the other of them, 
concentrating so hard she forgot to keep her limbs 
locked together. 



Page | 434 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But it must have been a Patronus!” she said. 
“Couldn’t you see who was casting it? Didn’t you see 
anyone? And it led you to the sword! I can’t believe 
this! Then what happened?” 

Ron explained how he had watched Harry jump into 
the pool and had waited for him to resurface; how he 
had realized that something was wrong, dived in, and 
saved Harry, then returned for the sword. He got as 
far as the opening of the locket, then hesitated, and 
Harry cut in. 

“ — and Ron stabbed it with the sword.” 

“And ... and it went? Just like that?” she whispered. 

“Well, it — it screamed,” said Harry with half a glance 
at Ron. “Here.” 

He threw the locket into her lap; gingerly she picked it 
up and examined its punctured windows. 

Deciding that it was at last safe to do so, Harry 
removed the Shield Charm with a wave of Hermione’s 
wand and turned to Ron. 

“Did you just say you got away from the Snatchers 
with a spare wand?” 

“What?” said Ron, who had been watching Hermione 
examining the locket. “Oh — oh yeah.” 

He tugged open a buckle on his rucksack and pulled 
a short, dark wand out of its pocket. “Here. I figured 
it’s always handy to have a backup.” 

“You were right,” said Harry, holding out his hand. 
“Mine’s broken.” 



Page | 435 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re kidding?” Ron said, but at that moment 
Hermione got to her feet, and he looked apprehensive 
again. 

Hermione put the vanquished Horcrux into the 
beaded bag, then climbed back into her bed and 
settled down without another word. 

Ron passed Harry the new wand. 

“About the best you could hope for, I think,” 
murmured Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Ron. “Could’ve been worse. Remember 
those birds she set on me?” 

“I still haven’t ruled it out,” came Hermione’s muffled 
voice from beneath her blankets, but Harry saw Ron 
smiling slightly as he pulled his maroon pajamas out 
of his rucksack. 



Page | 436 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 





XEN OPHILIUS LOVEGOOD 

Harry had not expected Hermione’s anger to abate 
overnight, and was therefore unsurprised that she 
communicated mainly by dirty looks and pointed 
silences the next morning. Ron responded by 
maintaining an unnaturally somber demeanor in her 
presence as an outward sign of continuing remorse. 

In fact, when all three of them were together Harry 
felt like the only non-mourner at a poorly attended 
funeral. During those few moments he spent alone 
with Harry, however (collecting water and searching 
the undergrowth for mushrooms), Ron became 
shamelessly cheery. 

“Someone helped us,” he kept saying. “Someone sent 
that doe. Someone’s on our side. One Horcrux down, 
mate!” 

Bolstered by the destruction of the locket, they set to 
debating the possible locations of the other 
Horcruxes, and even though they had discussed the 
matter so often before, Harry felt optimistic, certain 
that more breakthroughs would succeed the first. 

Page | 437 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Hermione’s sulkiness could not mar his buoyant 
spirits: The sudden upswing in their fortunes, the 
appearance of the mysterious doe, the recovery of 
Gryffindor’s sword, and above all, Ron’s return, made 
Harry so happy that it was quite difficult to maintain 
a straight face. 

Late in the afternoon he and Ron escaped Hermione’s 
baleful presence again, and under the pretense of 
scouring the bare hedges for nonexistent 
blackberries, they continued their ongoing exchange 
of news. Harry had finally managed to tell Ron the 
whole story of his and Hermione’s various 
wanderings, right up to the full story of what had 
happened at Godric’s Hollow; Ron was now filling 
Harry in on everything he had discovered about the 
wider Wizarding world during his weeks away. 

"... and how did you find out about the Taboo?” he 
asked Harry after explaining the many desperate 
attempts of Muggle-borns to evade the Ministry. 

“The what?” 

“You and Hermione have stopped saying You-Know- 
Who’s name!” 

“Oh, yeah. Well, it’s just a bad habit we’ve slipped 
into,” said Harry. “But I haven’t got a problem calling 
him V — ” 

“NO!” roared Ron, causing Harry to jump into the 
hedge and Hermione (nose buried in a book at the 
tent entrance) to scowl over at them. “Sorry,” said 
Ron, wrenching Harry back out of the brambles, “but 
the name’s been jinxed, Harry, that’s how they track 
people! Using his name breaks protective 
enchantments, it causes some kind of magical 



Page | 438 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




disturbance — it’s how they found us in Tottenham 
Court Road!” 



“Because we used his name?” 

“Exactly! You’ve got to give them credit, it makes 
sense. It was only people who were serious about 
standing up to him, like Dumbledore, who ever dared 
use it. Now they’ve put a Taboo on it, anyone who 
says it is trackable — quick-and-easy way to find 
Order members! They nearly got Kingsley — ” 

“You’re kidding?” 

“Yeah, a bunch of Death Eaters cornered him, Bill 
said, but he fought his way out. He’s on the run now, 
just like us.” Ron scratched his chin thoughtfully with 
the end of his wand. “You don’t reckon Kingsley could 
have sent that doe?” 

“His Patronus is a lynx, we saw it at the wedding, 
remember?” 

“Oh yeah ...” 

They moved farther along the hedge, away from the 
tent and Hermione. 

“Harry ... you don’t reckon it could’ve been 
Dumbledore?” 

“Dumbledore what?” 

Ron looked a little embarrassed, but said in a low 
voice, “Dumbledore ... the doe? I mean,” Ron was 
watching Harry out of the corners of his eyes, “he had 
the real sword last, didn’t he?” 



Page | 439 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not laugh at Ron, because he understood 
too well the longing behind the question. The idea 
that Dumbledore had managed to come back to them, 
that he was watching over them, would have been 
inexpressibly comforting. He shook his head. 

“Dumbledore’s dead,” he said. “I saw it happen, I saw 
the body. He’s definitely gone. Anyway, his Patronus 
was a phoenix, not a doe.” 

“Patronuses can change, though, can’t they?” said 
Ron. “Tonks’s changed, didn’t it?” 

“Yeah, but if Dumbledore was alive, why wouldn’t he 
show himself? Why wouldn’t he just hand us the 
sword?” 

“Search me,” said Ron. “Same reason he didn’t give it 
to you while he was alive? Same reason he left you an 
old Snitch and Hermione a book of kids’ stories?” 

“Which is what?” asked Harry, turning to look Ron 
full in the face, desperate for the answer. 

“I dunno,” said Ron. “Sometimes I’ve thought, when 
I’ve been a bit hacked off, he was having a laugh or — 
or he just wanted to make it more difficult. But I don’t 
think so, not anymore. He knew what he was doing 
when he gave me the Deluminator, didn’t he? He — 
well,” Ron’s ears turned bright red and he became 
engrossed in a tuft of grass at his feet, which he 
prodded with his toe, “he must’ve known I’d run out 
on you.” 

“No,” Harry corrected him. “He must’ve known you’d 
always want to come back.” 

Ron looked grateful, but still awkward. Partly to 
change the subject, Harry said, “Speaking of 

Page | 440 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore, have you heard what Skeeter wrote 
about him?” 

“Oh yeah,” said Ron at once, “people are talking about 
it quite a lot. ’Course, if things were different, it’d be 
huge news, Dumbledore being pals with Grindelwald, 
but now it’s just something to laugh about for people 
who didn’t like Dumbledore, and a bit of a slap in the 
face for everyone who thought he was such a good 
bloke. I don’t know that it’s such a big deal, though. 
He was really young when they — ” 

“Our age,” said Harry, just as he had retorted to 
Hermione, and something in his face seemed to 
decide Ron against pursuing the subject. 

A large spider sat in the middle of a frosted web in the 
brambles. Harry took aim at it with the wand Ron had 
given him the previous night, which Hermione had 
since condescended to examine, and had decided was 
made of blackthorn. 

“Engorgio.” 

The spider gave a little shiver, bouncing slightly in the 
web. Harry tried again. This time the spider grew 
slightly larger. 

“Stop that,” said Ron sharply. “I’m sorry I said 
Dumbledore was young, okay?” 

Harry had forgotten Ron’s hatred of spiders. 

“Sorry — Reducio.” 

The spider did not shrink. Harry looked down at the 
blackthorn wand. Every minor spell he had cast with 
it so far that day had seemed less powerful than those 
he had produced with his phoenix wand. The new one 

Page | 441 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




felt intrusively unfamiliar, like having somebody else’s 
hand sewn to the end of his arm. 

“You just need to practice,” said Hermione, who had 
approached them noiselessly from behind and had 
stood watching anxiously as Harry tried to enlarge 
and reduce the spider. “It’s all a matter of confidence, 
Harry.” 

He knew why she wanted it to be all right: She still 
felt guilty about breaking his wand. He bit back the 
retort that sprang to his lips, that she could take the 
blackthorn wand if she thought it made no difference, 
and he would have hers instead. Keen for them all to 
be friends again, however, he agreed; but when Ron 
gave Hermione a tentative smile, she stalked off and 
vanished behind her book once more. 

All three of them returned to the tent when darkness 
fell, and Harry took first watch. Sitting in the 
entrance, he tried to make the blackthorn wand 
levitate small stones at his feet; but his magic still 
seemed clumsier and less powerful than it had done 
before. Hermione was lying on her bunk reading, 
while Ron, after many nervous glances up at her, had 
taken a small wooden wireless out of his rucksack 
and started to try and tune it. 

“There’s this one program,” he told Harry in a low 
voice, “that tells the news like it really is. All the 
others are on You- Know- Who’s side and are following 
the Ministry line, but this one ... you wait till you 
hear it, it’s great. Only they can’t do it every night, 
they have to keep changing locations in case they’re 
raided, and you need a password to tune in. ... 

Trouble is, I missed the last one. ...” 

He drummed lightly on the top of the radio with his 
wand, muttering random words under his breath. He 

Page | 442 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




threw Hermione many covert glances, plainly fearing 
an angry outburst, but for all the notice she took of 
him he might not have been there. For ten minutes or 
so Ron tapped and muttered, Hermione turned the 
pages of her book, and Harry continued to practice 
with the blackthorn wand. 

Finally Hermione climbed down from her bunk. Ron 
ceased his tapping at once. 

“If it’s annoying you, 111 stop!” he told Hermione 
nervously. 

Hermione did not deign to respond, but approached 
Harry. 

“We need to talk,” she said. 

He looked at the book still clutched in her hand. It 
was The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore. 

“What?” he said apprehensively. It flew through his 
mind that there was a chapter on him in there; he 
was not sure he felt up to hearing Rita’s version of his 
relationship with Dumbledore. Hermione ’s answer, 
however, was completely unexpected. 

“I want to go and see Xenophilius Lovegood.” 

He stared at her. 

“Sorry?” 

“Xenophilius Lovegood. Luna’s father. I want to go 
and talk to him!” 

“Er — why?” 



Page | 443 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




She took a deep breath, as though bracing herself, 
and said, “It’s that mark, the mark in Beedle the 
Bard. Look at this!” 

She thrust The Life and Lies ofAlbus Dumbledore 
under Harry’s unwilling eyes and he saw a 
photograph of the original letter that Dumbledore had 
written Grindelwald, with Dumbledore ’s familiar thin, 
slanting handwriting. He hated seeing absolute proof 
that Dumbledore really had written those words, that 
they had not been Rita’s invention. 

“The signature,” said Hermione. “Look at the 
signature, Harry!” 

He obeyed. For a moment he had no idea what she 
was talking about, but, looking more closely with the 
aid of his lit wand, he saw that Dumbledore had 
replaced the A of Albus with a tiny version of the 
same triangular mark inscribed upon The Tales of 
Beedle the Bard. 

“Er — what are you — ?” said Ron tentatively, but 
Hermione quelled him with a look and turned back to 
Harry. 

“It keeps cropping up, doesn’t it?” she said. “I know 
Viktor said it was Grindelwald ’s mark, but it was 
definitely on that old grave in Godric’s Hollow, and 
the dates on the headstone were long before 
Grindelwald came along! And now this! Well, we can’t 
ask Dumbledore or Grindelwald what it means — I 
don’t even know whether Grindelwald’s still alive — 
but we can ask Mr. Lovegood. He was wearing the 
symbol at the wedding. I’m sure this is important, 
Harry!” 

Harry did not answer immediately. He looked into her 
intense, eager face and then out into the surrounding 

Page | 444 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




darkness, thinking. After a long pause he said, 
“Hermione, we don’t need another Godric’s Hollow. 

We talked ourselves into going there, and — ” 

“But it keeps appearing, Harry! Dumbledore left me 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard, how do you know we’re 
not supposed to find out about the sign?” 

“Here we go again!” Harry felt slightly exasperated. 

“We keep trying to convince ourselves Dumbledore left 
us secret signs and clues — ” 

“The Deluminator turned out to be pretty useful,” 
piped up Ron. “I think Hermione’s right, I think we 
ought to go and see Lovegood.” 

Harry threw him a dark look. He was quite sure that 
Ron’s support of Hermione had little to do with a 
desire to know the meaning of the triangular rune. 

“It won’t be like Godric’s Hollow,” Ron added, 
“Lovegood’s on your side, Harry, The Quibbler’s been 
for you all along, it keeps telling everyone they’ve got 
to help you!” 

“I’m sure this is important!” said Hermione earnestly. 

“But don’t you think if it was, Dumbledore would 
have told me about it before he died?” 

“Maybe ... maybe it’s something you need to find out 
for yourself,” said Hermione with a faint air of 
clutching at straws. 

“Yeah,” said Ron sycophantically, “that makes sense.” 

“No, it doesn’t,” snapped Hermione, “but I still think 
we ought to talk to Mr. Lovegood. A symbol that links 



Page | 445 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore, Grindelwald, and Godric’s Hollow? 
Harry, I’m sure we ought to know about this!” 



“I think we should vote on it,” said Ron. “Those in 
favor of going to see Lovegood — ” 

His hand flew into the air before Hermione’s. Her lips 
quivered suspiciously as she raised her own. 

“Outvoted, Harry, sorry,” said Ron, clapping him on 
the back. 

“Fine,” said Harry, half amused, half irritated. “Only, 
once we’ve seen Lovegood, let’s try and look for some 
more Horcruxes, shall we? Where do the Lovegoods 
live, anyway? Do either of you know?” 

“Yeah, they’re not far from my place,” said Ron. “I 
dunno exactly where, but Mum and Dad always point 
toward the hills whenever they mention them. 
Shouldn’t be hard to find.” 

When Hermione had returned to her bunk, Harry 
lowered his voice. 

“You only agreed to try and get back in her good 
books.” 

“All’s fair in love and war,” said Ron brightly, “and 
this is a bit of both. Cheer up, it’s the Christmas 
holidays, Luna ’ll be home!” 

They had an excellent view of the village of Ottery St. 
Catchpole from the breezy hillside to which they 
Disapparated next morning. From their high vantage 
point the village looked like a collection of toy houses 
in the great slanting shafts of sunlight stretching to 
earth in the breaks between clouds. They stood for a 
minute or two looking toward the Burrow, their hands 
Page | 446 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




shadowing their eyes, but all they could make out 
were the high hedges and trees of the orchard, which 
afforded the crooked little house protection from 
Muggle eyes. 

“It’s weird, being this near, but not going to visit,” 
said Ron. 

“Well, it’s not like you haven’t just seen them. You 
were there for Christmas,” said Hermione coldly. 

“I wasn’t at the Burrow!” said Ron with an 
incredulous laugh. “Do you think I was going to go 
back there and tell them all I’d walked out on you? 
Yeah, Fred and George would’ve been great about it. 
And Ginny, she’d have been really understanding.” 

“But where have you been, then?” asked Hermione, 
surprised. 

“Bill and Fleur’s new place. Shell Cottage. Bill’s 
always been decent to me. He — he wasn’t impressed 
when he heard what I’d done, but he didn’t go on 
about it. He knew I was really sorry. None of the rest 
of the family know I was there. Bill told Mum he and 
Fleur weren’t going home for Christmas because they 
wanted to spend it alone. You know, first holiday after 
they were married. I don’t think Fleur minded. You 
know how much she hates Celestina Warbeck.” 

Ron turned his back on the Burrow. 

“Let’s try up here,” he said, leading the way over the 
top of the hill. 

They walked for a few hours, Harry, at Hermione ’s 
insistence, hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak. The 
cluster of low hills appeared to be uninhabited apart 
from one small cottage, which seemed deserted. 

Page | 447 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Do you think it’s theirs, and they’ve gone away for 
Christmas?” said Hermione, peering through the 
window at a neat little kitchen with geraniums on the 
windowsill. Ron snorted. 

“Listen, I’ve got a feeling you’d be able to tell who lived 
there if you looked through the Lovegoods’ window. 
Let’s try the next lot of hills.” 

So they Disapparated a few miles farther north. 

“Aha!” shouted Ron, as the wind whipped their hair 
and clothes. Ron was pointing upward, toward the top 
of the hill on which they had appeared, where a most 
strange-looking house rose vertically against the sky, 
a great black cylinder with a ghostly moon hanging 
behind it in the afternoon sky. “That’s got to be 
Luna’s house, who else would live in a place like that? 
It looks like a giant rook!” 

“It’s nothing like a bird,” said Hermione, frowning at 
the tower. 

“I was talking about a chess rook,” said Ron. “A castle 
to you.” 

Ron’s legs were the longest and he reached the top of 
the hill first. When Harry and Hermione caught up 
with him, panting and clutching stitches in their 
sides, they found him grinning broadly. 

“It’s theirs,” said Ron. “Look.” 

Three hand-painted signs had been tacked to a 
broken-down gate. The first read, 

THE QUIBBLER. EDITOR: X. LOVEGOOD 

the second, 

Page | 448 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




PICK YOUR OWN MISTLETOE 



the third, 

KEEP OFF THE DIRIGIBLE PLUMS 

The gate creaked as they opened it. The zigzagging 
path leading to the front door was overgrown with a 
variety of odd plants, including a bush covered in the 
orange radishlike fruit Luna sometimes wore as 
earrings. Harry thought he recognized a Snargaluff 
and gave the wizened stump a wide berth. Two aged 
crab apple trees, bent with the wind, stripped of 
leaves but still heavy with berry-sized red fruits and 
bushy crowns of white-beaded mistletoe, stood 
sentinel on either side of the front door. A little owl 
with a slightly flattened, hawklike head peered down 
at them from one of the branches. 

“You’d better take off the Invisibility Cloak, Harry,” 
