“I told you to shut up about my dad!” Harry yelled. “I 
know the truth, all right? He saved your life! 
Dumbledore told me! You wouldn’t even be here if it 
wasn’t for my dad!” 



Page | 317 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Snape’s sallow skin had gone the color of sour milk. 

“And did the headmaster tell you the circumstances 
in which your father saved my life?” he whispered. 

“Or did he consider the details too unpleasant for 
precious Potter’s delicate ears?” 

Harry bit his lip. He didn’t know what had happened 
and didn’t want to admit it — but Snape seemed to 
have guessed the truth. 

“I would hate for you to run away with a false idea of 
your father, Potter,” he said, a terrible grin twisting 
his face. “Have you been imagining some act of 
glorious heroism? Then let me correct you — your 
saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing 
joke on me that would have resulted in my death if 
your father hadn’t got cold feet at the last moment. 
There was nothing brave about what he did. He was 
saving his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke 
succeeded, he would have been expelled from 
Hogwarts.” 

Snape’s uneven, yellowish teeth were bared. 

“Turn out your pockets, Potter!” he spat suddenly. 

Harry didn’t move. There was a pounding in his ears. 

“Turn out your pockets, or we go straight to the 
headmaster! Pull them out, Potter!” 

Cold with dread, Harry slowly pulled out the bag of 
Zonko’s tricks and the Marauder’s Map. 

Snape picked up the Zonko’s bag. 



Page | 318 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron gave them to me,” said Harry, praying he’d get a 
chance to tip Ron off before Snape saw him. “He — 
brought them back from Hogsmeade last time — ” 

“Indeed? And you’ve been carrying them around ever 
since? How very touching . . . and what is this?” 

Snape had picked up the map. Harry tried with all his 
might to keep his face impassive. 

“Spare bit of parchment,” he said with a shrug. 

Snape turned it over, his eyes on Harry. 

“Surely you don’t need such a very old piece of 
parchment?” he said. “Why don’t I just — throw this 
away?” 

His hand moved toward the fire. 

“No!” Harry said quickly. 

“So!” said Snape, his long nostrils quivering. “Is this 
another treasured gift from Mr. Weasley? Or is it — 
something else? A letter, perhaps, written in invisible 
ink? Or — instructions to get into Hogsmeade without 
passing the dementors?” 

Harry blinked. Snape ’s eyes gleamed. 

“Let me see, let me see ... ,” he muttered, taking out 
his wand and smoothing the map out on his desk. 
“Reveal your secret!” he said, touching the wand to 
the parchment. 

Nothing happened. Harry clenched his hands to stop 
them from shaking. 



Page | 319 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Show yourself!” Snape said, tapping the map 
sharply. 

It stayed blank. Harry was taking deep, calming 
breaths. 

“Professor Severus Snape, master of this school, 
commands you to yield the information you conceal!” 
Snape said, hitting the map with his wand. 

As though an invisible hand were writing upon it, 
words appeared on the smooth surface of the map. 

“Mr. Moony presents his compliments to Professor 
Snape, and begs him to keep his abnormally large 
nose out of other people’s business.” 

Snape froze. Harry stared, dumbstruck, at the 
message. But the map didn’t stop there. More writing 
was appearing beneath the first. 

“Mr. Prongs agrees with Mr. Moony, and would like to 
add that Professor Snape is an ugly git.” 

It would have been very funny if the situation hadn’t 
been so serious. And there was more. ... 

“Mr. Padfoot would like to register his astonishment 
that an idiot like that ever became a professor.” 

Harry closed his eyes in horror. When he’d opened 
them, the map had had its last word. 

“Mr. Wormtail bids Professor Snape good day, and 
advises him to wash his hair, the slimeball.” 

Harry waited for the blow to fall. 

“So ... ,” said Snape softly. “We’ll see about this. ...” 

Page | 320 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He strode across to his fire, seized a fistful of 
glittering powder from ajar on the fireplace, and 
threw it into the flames. 

“Lupin!” Snape called into the fire. “I want a word!” 

Utterly bewildered, Harry stared at the fire. A large 
shape had appeared in it, revolving very fast. Seconds 
later, Professor Lupin was clambering out of the 
fireplace, brushing ash off his shabby robes. 

“You called, Severus?” said Lupin mildly. 

“I certainly did,” said Snape, his face contorted with 
fury as he strode back to his desk. “I have just asked 
Potter to empty his pockets. He was carrying this.” 

Snape pointed at the parchment, on which the words 
of Messrs. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs 
were still shining. An odd, closed expression appeared 
on Lupin’s face. 

“Well?” said Snape. 

Lupin continued to stare at the map. Harry had the 
impression that Lupin was doing some very quick 
thinking. 

“Well?” said Snape again. “This parchment is plainly 
full of Dark Magic. This is supposed to be your area of 
expertise, Lupin. Where do you imagine Potter got 
such a thing?” 

Lupin looked up and, by the merest half-glance in 
Harry’s direction, warned him not to interrupt. 

“Full of Dark Magic?” he repeated mildly. “Do you 
really think so, Severus? It looks to me as though it is 
merely a piece of parchment that insults anybody who 

Page | 321 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




reads it. Childish, but surely not dangerous? I 
imagine Harry got it from a joke shop — ” 

“Indeed?” said Snape. His jaw had gone rigid with 
anger. “You think a joke shop could supply him with 
such a thing? You don’t think it more likely that he 
got it directly from the manufacturers?” 

Harry didn’t understand what Snape was talking 
about. Nor, apparently, did Lupin. 

“You mean, by Mr. Wormtail or one of these people?” 
he said. “Harry, do you know any of these men?” 

“No,” said Harry quickly. 

“You see, Severus?” said Lupin, turning back to 
Snape. “It looks like a Zonko product to me — ” 

Right on cue, Ron came bursting into the office. He 
was completely out of breath, and stopped just short 
of Snape ’s desk, clutching the stitch in his chest and 
trying to speak. 

“I — gave — Harry — that — stuff,” he choked. 
“Bought — it ... in Zonko ’s ... ages — ago ...” 

“Well!” said Lupin, clapping his hands together and 
looking around cheerfully. “That seems to clear that 
up! Severus, I’ll take this back, shall I?” He folded the 
map and tucked it inside his robes. “Harry, Ron, 
come with me, I need a word about my vampire essay 
— excuse us, Severus — ” 

Harry didn’t dare look at Snape as they left his office. 
He, Ron, and Lupin walked all the way back into the 
entrance hall before speaking. Then Harry turned to 
Lupin. 



Page | 322 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor, I — ” 



“I don’t want to hear explanations,” said Lupin 
shortly. He glanced around the empty entrance hall 
and lowered his voice. “I happen to know that this 
map was confiscated by Mr. Filch many years ago. 

Yes, I know it’s a map,” he said as Harry and Ron 
looked amazed. “I don’t want to know how it fell into 
your possession. I am, however, astounded that you 
didn’t hand it in. Particularly after what happened the 
last time a student left information about the castle 
lying around. And I can’t let you have it back, Harry.” 

Harry had expected that, and was too keen for 
explanations to protest. 

“Why did Snape think I’d got it from the 
manufacturers?” 

“Because ... ,” Lupin hesitated, “because these 
mapmakers would have wanted to lure you out of 
school. They’d think it extremely entertaining.” 

“Do you know them?” said Harry, impressed. 

“We’ve met,” he said shortly. He was looking at Harry 
more seriously than ever before. 

“Don’t expect me to cover up for you again, Harry. I 
cannot make you take Sirius Black seriously. But I 
would have thought that what you have heard when 
the dementors draw near you would have had more of 
an effect on you. Your parents gave their lives to keep 
you alive, Harry. A poor way to repay them — 
gambling their sacrifice for a bag of magic tricks.” 

He walked away, leaving Harry feeling worse by far 
than he had at any point in Snape ’s office. Slowly, he 
and Ron mounted the marble staircase. As Harry 

Page | 323 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




passed the one-eyed witch, he remembered the 
Invisibility Cloak — it was still down there, but he 
didn’t dare go and get it. 



“It’s my fault,” said Ron abruptly. “I persuaded you to 
go. Lupin’s right, it was stupid, we shouldn’t’ve done 



it — ” 



He broke off; they reached the corridor where the 
security trolls were pacing, and Hermione was 
walking toward them. One look at her face convinced 
Harry that she had heard what had happened. His 
heart plummeted — had she told Professor 
McGonagall? 

“Come to have a good gloat?” said Ron savagely as 
she stopped in front of them. “Or have you just been 
to tell on us?” 

“No,” said Hermione. She was holding a letter in her 
hands and her lip was trembling. “I just thought you 
ought to know ... Hagrid lost his case. Buckbeak is 
going to be executed.” 



Page | 324 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






THE QUIDDITCH FINAL 

“He — he sent me this,” Hermione said, holding out 
the letter. 

Harry took it. The parchment was damp, and 
enormous teardrops had smudged the ink so badly in 
places that it was very difficult to read. 

Dear Hermione, 

We lost I’m allowed to bring him back to Hogwarts. 
Execution date to be fixed. 

Beaky has enjoyed London. 

I won’t forget all the help you gave us. 

Hagrid 

“They can’t do this,” said Harry. “They can’t. 
Buckbeak isn’t dangerous.” 



Page | 325 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“Malfoy’s dad’s frightened the Committee into it,” said 
Hermione, wiping her eyes. “You know what he’s like. 
They’re a bunch of doddery old fools, and they were 
scared. There’ll be an appeal, though, there always is. 
Only I can’t see any hope. ... Nothing will have 
changed.” 

“Yeah, it will,” said Ron fiercely. “You won’t have to do 
all the work alone this time, Hermione. I’ll help.” 

“Oh, Ron!” 

Hermione flung her arms around Ron’s neck and 
broke down completely. Ron, looking quite terrified, 
patted her very awkwardly on the top of the head. 
Finally, Hermione drew away. 

“Ron, I’m really, really sorry about Scabbers ... ,” she 
sobbed. 

“Oh — well — he was old,” said Ron, looking 
thoroughly relieved that she had let go of him. “And 
he was a bit useless. You never know, Mum and Dad 
might get me an owl now.” 

The safety measures imposed on the students since 
Black’s second break-in made it impossible for Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione to go and visit Hagrid in the 
evenings. Their only chance of talking to him was 
during Care of Magical Creatures lessons. 

He seemed numb with shock at the verdict. 

“S’all my fault. Got all tongue-tied. They was all sittin’ 
there in black robes an’ I kep’ droppin’ me notes and 
forgettin’ all them dates yeh looked up fer me, 
Hermione. An’ then Lucius Malfoy stood up an’ said 
his bit, and the Committee jus’ did exac’ly what he 
told ’em. ...” 

Page | 326 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s still the appeal!” said Ron fiercely. “Don’t give 
up yet, we’re working on it!” 

They were walking back up to the castle with the rest 
of the class. Ahead they could see Malfoy, who was 
walking with Crabbe and Goyle, and kept looking 
back, laughing derisively. 

“S’no good, Ron,” said Hagrid sadly as they reached 
the castle steps. “That Committee’s in Lucius Malfoy ’s 
pocket. I’m jus’ gonna make sure the rest o’ Beaky’s 
time is the happiest he’s ever had. I owe him that. ...” 

Hagrid turned around and hurried back toward his 
cabin, his face buried in his handkerchief. 

“Look at him blubber!” 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had been standing just 
inside the castle doors, listening. 

“Have you ever seen anything quite as pathetic?” said 
Malfoy. “And he’s supposed to be our teacher!” 

Harry and Ron both made furious moves toward 
Malfoy, but Hermione got there first — SMACK! 

She had slapped Malfoy across the face with all the 
strength she could muster. Malfoy staggered. Harry, 
Ron, Crabbe, and Goyle stood flabbergasted as 
Hermione raised her hand again. 

“Don’t you dare call Hagrid pathetic, you foul — you 
evil — ” 

“Hermione!” said Ron weakly, and he tried to grab her 
hand as she swung it back. 

“Get off, Ron!” 

Page | 327 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione pulled out her wand. Malfoy stepped 
backward. Crabbe and Goyle looked at him for 
instructions, thoroughly bewildered. 

“C’mon,” Malfoy muttered, and in a moment, all three 
of them had disappeared into the passageway to the 
dungeons. 

“Hermionel” Ron said again, sounding both stunned 
and impressed. 

“Harry, you’d better beat him in the Quidditch final!” 
Hermione said shrilly. “You just better had, because I 
can’t stand it if Slytherin wins!” 

“We’re due in Charms,” said Ron, still goggling at 
Hermione. “We’d better go.” 

They hurried up the marble staircase toward 
Professor Flitwick’s classroom. 

“You’re late, boys!” said Professor Flitwick reprovingly 
as Harry opened the classroom door. “Come along, 
quickly, wands out, we’re experimenting with 
Cheering Charms today, we’ve already divided into 
pairs — ” 

Harry and Ron hurried to a desk at the back and 
opened their bags. Ron looked behind him. 

“Where’s Hermione gone?” 

Harry looked around too. Hermione hadn’t entered 
the classroom, yet Harry knew she had been right 
next to him when he had opened the door. 

“That’s weird,” said Harry, staring at Ron. “Maybe — 
maybe she went to the bathroom or something?” 



Page | 328 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




But Hermione didn’t turn up all lesson. 

“She could’ve done with a Cheering Charm on her 
too,” said Ron as the class left for lunch, all grinning 
broadly — the Cheering Charms had left them with a 
feeling of great contentment. 

Hermione wasn’t at lunch either. By the time they 
had finished their apple pie, the after-effects of the 
Cheering Charms were wearing off, and Harry and 
Ron had started to get slightly worried. 

“You don’t think Malfoy did something to her?” Ron 
said anxiously as they hurried upstairs toward 
Gryffindor Tower. 

They passed the security trolls, gave the Fat Lady the 
password (“Flibbertigibbet”), and scrambled through 
the portrait hole into the common room. 

Hermione was sitting at a table, fast asleep, her head 
resting on an open Arithmancy book. They went to sit 
down on either side of her. Harry prodded her awake. 

“Wh — what?” said Hermione, waking with a start 
and staring wildly around. “Is it time to go? W — 
which lesson have we got now? 

“Divination, but it’s not for another twenty minutes,” 
said Harry. “Hermione, why didn’t you come to 
Charms?” 

“What? Oh no!” Hermione squeaked. “I forgot to go to 
Charms!” 

“But how could you forget?” said Harry. “You were 
with us till we were right outside the classroom!” 



Page | 329 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t believe it!” Hermione wailed. “Was Professor 
Flitwick angry? Oh, it was Malfoy, I was thinking 
about him and I lost track of things!” 

“You know what, Hermione?” said Ron, looking down 
at the enormous Arithmancy book Hermione had 
been using as a pillow. “I reckon you’re cracking up. 
You’re trying to do too much.” 

“No, I’m not!” said Hermione, brushing her hair out of 
her eyes and staring hopelessly around for her bag. “I 
just made a mistake, that’s all! I’d better go and see 
Professor Flitwick and say sorry. ... I’ll see you in 
Divination!” 

Hermione joined them at the foot of the ladder to 
Professor Trelawney’s classroom twenty minutes later, 
looking extremely harassed. 

“I can’t believe I missed Cheering Charms! And I bet 
they come up in our exams; Professor Flitwick hinted 
they might!” 

Together they climbed the ladder into the dim, stifling 
tower room. Glowing on every little table was a crystal 
ball full of pearly white mist. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione sat down together at the same rickety table. 

“I thought we weren’t starting crystal balls until next 
term,” Ron muttered, casting a wary eye around for 
Professor Trelawney, in case she was lurking nearby. 

“Don’t complain, this means we’ve finished 
palmistry,” Harry muttered back. “I was getting sick 
of her flinching every time she looked at my hands.” 

“Good day to you!” said the familiar, misty voice, and 
Professor Trelawney made her usual dramatic 
entrance out of the shadows. Parvati and Lavender 

Page | 330 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




quivered with excitement, their faces lit by the milky 
glow of their crystal ball. 



“I have decided to introduce the crystal ball a little 
earlier than I had planned,” said Professor Trelawney, 
sitting with her back to the fire and gazing around. 
“The fates have informed me that your examination in 
June will concern the Orb, and I am anxious to give 
you sufficient practice.” 

Hermione snorted. 

“Well, honestly ... ‘the fates have informed her’ ... who 
sets the exam? She does! What an amazing 
prediction!” she said, not troubling to keep her voice 
low. Harry and Ron choked back laughs. 

It was hard to tell whether Professor Trelawney had 
heard them, as her face was hidden in shadow. She 
continued, however, as though she had not. 

“Crystal gazing is a particularly refined art,” she said 
dreamily. “I do not expect any of you to See when first 
you peer into the Orb’s infinite depths. We shall start 
by practicing relaxing the conscious mind and 
external eyes” — Ron began to snigger uncontrollably 
and had to stuff his fist in his mouth to stifle the 
noise — “so as to clear the Inner Eye and the 
superconscious. Perhaps, if we are lucky, some of you 
will See before the end of the class.” 

And so they began. Harry, at least, felt extremely 
foolish, staring blankly at the crystal ball, trying to 
keep his mind empty when thoughts such as “this is 
stupid” kept drifting across it. It didn’t help that Ron 
kept breaking into silent giggles and Hermione kept 
tutting. 



Page | 331 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Seen anything yet?” Harry asked them after a 
quarter of an hour’s quiet crystal gazing. 

“Yeah, there’s a burn on this table,” said Ron, 
pointing. “Someone’s spilled their candle.” 

“This is such a waste of time,” Hermione hissed. “I 
could be practicing something useful. I could be 
catching up on Cheering Charms — ” 

Professor Trelawney rustled past. 

“Would anyone like me to help them interpret the 
shadowy portents within their Orb?” she murmured 
over the clinking of her bangles. 

“I don’t need help,” Ron whispered. “It’s obvious what 
this means. There’s going to be loads of fog tonight.” 

Both Harry and Hermione burst out laughing. 

“Now, really!” said Professor Trelawney as everyone’s 
heads turned in their direction. Parvati and Lavender 
were looking scandalized. “You are disturbing the 
clairvoyant vibrations!” She approached their table 
and peered into their crystal ball. Harry felt his heart 
sinking. He was sure he knew what was coming — 

“There is something here!” Professor Trelawney 
whispered, lowering her face to the ball, so that it was 
reflected twice in her huge glasses. “Something 
moving . . . but what is it?” 

Harry was prepared to bet everything he owned, 
including his Firebolt, that it wasn’t good news, 
whatever it was. And sure enough — 

“My dear ... ,” Professor Trelawney breathed, gazing 
up at Harry. “It is here, plainer than ever before ... my 

Page | 332 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




dear, stalking toward you, growing ever closer ... the 
Gr — ” 



“Oh, for goodness’ sake!” said Hermione loudly. “Not 
that ridiculous Grim again\” 

Professor Trelawney raised her enormous eyes to 
Hermione ’s face. Parvati whispered something to 
Lavender, and they both glared at Hermione too. 
Professor Trelawney stood up, surveying Hermione 
with unmistakable anger. 

“I am sorry to say that from the moment you have 
arrived in this class, my dear, it has been apparent 
that you do not have what the noble art of Divination 
requires. Indeed, I don’t remember ever meeting a 
student whose mind was so hopelessly mundane.” 

There was a moment’s silence. Then — 

“Fine!” said Hermione suddenly, getting up and 
cramming Unfogging the Future back into her bag. 
“Fine!” she repeated, swinging the bag over her 
shoulder and almost knocking Ron off his chair. “I 
give up! I’m leaving!” 

And to the whole class’s amazement, Hermione strode 
over to the trapdoor, kicked it open, and climbed 
down the ladder out of sight. 

It took a few minutes for the class to settle down 
again. Professor Trelawney seemed to have forgotten 
all about the Grim. She turned abruptly from Harry 
and Ron’s table, breathing rather heavily as she 
tugged her gauzy shawl more closely to her. 

“Ooooo!” said Lavender suddenly, making everyone 
start. “Oooooo, Professor Trelawney, I’ve just 
remembered! You saw her leaving, didn’t you? Didn’t 

Page | 333 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




you, Professor? ‘Around Easter, one of our number will 
leave us forever*.’ You said it ages ago, Professor!” 

Professor Trelawney gave her a dewy smile. 

“Yes, my dear, I did indeed know that Miss Granger 
would be leaving us. One hopes, however, that one 
might have mistaken the Signs. ... The Inner Eye can 
be a burden, you know. ...” 

Lavender and Parvati looked deeply impressed, and 
moved over so that Professor Trelawney could join 
their table instead. 

“Some day Hermione’s having, eh?” Ron muttered to 
Harry, looking awed. 

“Yeah ...” 

Harry glanced into the crystal ball but saw nothing 
but swirling white mist. Had Professor Trelawney 
really seen the Grim again? Would he? The last thing 
he needed was another near-fatal accident, with the 
Quidditch final drawing ever nearer. 

The Easter holidays were not exactly relaxing. The 
third years had never had so much homework. Neville 
Longbottom seemed close to a nervous collapse, and 
he wasn’t the only one. 

“Call this a holiday!” Seamus Finnigan roared at the 
common room one afternoon. “The exams are ages 
away, what’re they playing at?” 

But nobody had as much to do as Hermione. Even 
without Divination, she was taking more subjects 
than anybody else. She was usually last to leave the 
common room at night, first to arrive at the library 



Page | 334 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




the next morning; she had shadows like Lupin’s 
under her eyes, and seemed constantly close to tears. 

Ron had taken over responsibility for Buckbeak’s 
appeal. When he wasn’t doing his own work, he was 
poring over enormously thick volumes with names 
like The Handbook of Hippogriff Psychology and Fowl 
or Foul? A Study of Hippogriff Brutality. He was so 
absorbed, he even forgot to be horrible to 
Crookshanks. 

Harry, meanwhile, had to fit in his homework around 
Quidditch practice every day, not to mention endless 
discussions of tactics with Wood. The Gryffindor- 
Slytherin match would take place on the first 
Saturday after the Easter holidays. Slytherin was 
leading the tournament by exactly two hundred 
points. This meant (as Wood constantly reminded his 
team) that they needed to win the match by more 
than that amount to win the Cup. It also meant that 
the burden of winning fell largely on Harry, because 
capturing the Snitch was worth one hundred and fifty 
points. 

“So you must catch it only if we’re more than fifty 
points up,” Wood told Harry constantly. “Only if we’re 
more than fifty points up, Harry, or we win the match 
but lose the Cup. You’ve got that, haven’t you? You 
must catch the Snitch only if we’re — ” 

“I KNOW, OLIVER!” Harry yelled. 

The whole of Gryffindor House was obsessed with the 
coming match. Gryffindor hadn’t won the Quidditch 
Cup since the legendary Charlie Weasley (Ron’s 
second oldest brother) had been Seeker. But Harry 
doubted whether any of them, even Wood, wanted to 
win as much as he did. The enmity between Harry 
and Malfoy was at its highest point ever. Malfoy was 
Page | 335 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




still smarting about the mud-throwing incident in 
Hogsmeade and was even more furious that Harry 
had somehow wormed his way out of punishment. 
Harry hadn’t forgotten Malfoy’s attempt to sabotage 
him in the match against Ravenclaw, but it was the 
matter of Buckbeak that made him most determined 
to beat Malfoy in front of the entire school. 

Never, in anyone’s memory, had a match approached 
in such a highly charged atmosphere. By the time the 
holidays were over, tension between the two teams 
and their Houses was at the breaking point. A 
number of small scuffles broke out in the corridors, 
culminating in a nasty incident in which a Gryffindor 
fourth year and a Slytherin sixth year ended up in the 
hospital wing with leeks sprouting out of their ears. 

Harry was having a particularly bad time of it. He 
couldn’t walk to class without Slytherins sticking out 
their legs and trying to trip him up; Crabbe and Goyle 
kept popping up wherever he went, and slouching 
away looking disappointed when they saw him 
surrounded by people. Wood had given instructions 
that Harry should be accompanied everywhere he 
went, in case the Slytherins tried to put him out of 
action. The whole of Gryffindor House took up the 
challenge enthusiastically, so that it was impossible 
for Harry to get to classes on time because he was 
surrounded by a vast, chattering crowd. Harry was 
more concerned for his Firebolt’s safety than his own. 
When he wasn’t flying it, he locked it securely in his 
trunk and frequently dashed back up to Gryffindor 
Tower at break times to check that it was still there. 

All usual pursuits were abandoned in the Gryffindor 
common room the night before the match. Even 
Hermione had put down her books. 

“I can’t work, I can’t concentrate,” she said nervously. 

Page | 336 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




There was a great deal of noise. Fred and George 
Weasley were dealing with the pressure by being 
louder and more exuberant than ever. Oliver Wood 
was crouched over a model of a Quidditch field in the 
corner, prodding little figures across it with his wand 
and muttering to himself. Angelina, Alicia, and Katie 
were laughing at Fred’s and George’s jokes. Harry was 
sitting with Ron and Hermione, removed from the 
center of things, trying not to think about the next 
day, because every time he did, he had the horrible 
sensation that something very large was fighting to 
get out of his stomach. 

“You’re going to be fine,” Hermione told him, though 
she looked positively terrified. 

“You’ve got a Firebolti” said Ron. 

“Yeah ... ,” said Harry, his stomach writhing. 

It came as a relief when Wood suddenly stood up and 
yelled, “Team! Bed!” 



Harry slept badly. First he dreamed that he had 
overslept, and that Wood was yelling, “Where were 
you? We had to use Neville instead!” Then he dreamed 
that Malfoy and the rest of the Slytherin team arrived 
for the match riding dragons. He was flying at 
breakneck speed, trying to avoid a spurt of flames 
from Malfoy ’s steed’s mouth, when he realized he had 
forgotten his Firebolt. He fell through the air and 
woke with a start. 

It was a few seconds before Harry remembered that 
the match hadn’t taken place yet, that he was safe in 
bed, and that the Slytherin team definitely wouldn’t 
be allowed to play on dragons. He was feeling very 

Page | 337 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




thirsty. Quietly as he could, he got out of his four- 
poster and went to pour himself some water from the 
silver jug beneath the window. 

The grounds were still and quiet. No breath of wind 
disturbed the treetops in the Forbidden Forest; the 
Whomping Willow was motionless and innocent- 
looking. It looked as though the conditions for the 
match would be perfect. 

Harry set down his goblet and was about to turn back 
to his bed when something caught his eye. An animal 
of some kind was prowling across the silvery lawn. 

Harry dashed to his bedside table, snatched up his 
glasses, and put them on, then hurried back to the 
window. It couldn’t be the Grim — not now — not 
right before the match — 

He peered out at the grounds again and, after a 
minute’s frantic searching, spotted it. It was skirting 
the edge of the forest now. ... It wasn’t the Grim at all 
...it was a cat. ... Harry clutched the window ledge in 
relief as he recognized the bottlebrush tail. It was only 
Crookshanks. ... 

Or was it only Crookshanks? Harry squinted, 
pressing his nose flat against the glass. Crookshanks 
seemed to have come to a halt. Harry was sure he 
could see something else moving in the shadow of the 
trees too. 

And just then, it emerged — a gigantic, shaggy black 
dog, moving stealthily across the lawn, Crookshanks 
trotting at its side. Harry stared. What did this mean? 
If Crookshanks could see the dog as well, how could it 
be an omen of Harry’s death? 

“Ron!” Harry hissed. “Ron! Wake up!” 

Page | 338 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Huh?” 



“I need you to tell me if you can see something!” 

“S’all dark, Harry,” Ron muttered thickly. “What’re 
you on about?” 

“Down here — ” 

Harry looked quickly back out of the window. 

Crookshanks and the dog had vanished. Harry 
climbed onto the windowsill to look right down into 
the shadows of the castle, but they weren’t there. 
Where had they gone? 

A loud snore told him Ron had fallen asleep again. 

Harry and the rest of the Gryffindor team entered the 
Great Hall the next day to enormous applause. Harry 
couldn’t help grinning broadly as he saw that both 
the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff tables were applauding 
them too. The Slytherin table hissed loudly as they 
passed. Harry noticed that Malfoy looked even paler 
than usual. 

Wood spent the whole of breakfast urging his team to 
eat, while touching nothing himself. Then he hurried 
them off to the field before anyone else had finished, 
so they could get an idea of the conditions. As they 
left the Great Hall, everyone applauded again. 

“Good luck, Harry!” called Cho. Harry felt himself 
blushing. 

“Okay — no wind to speak of — sun’s a bit bright, 
that could impair your vision, watch out for it — 

ground’s fairly hard, good, that’ll give us a fast kickoff 
?? 

Page | 339 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Wood paced the field, staring around with the team 
behind him. Finally, they saw the front doors of the 
castle open in the distance and the rest of the school 
spilling onto the lawn. 

“Locker rooms,” said Wood tersely. 

