so I’ve been putting up signs.” 

She gestured toward the notice board, upon which, 
sure enough, she had pinned a list of all her missing 
books and clothes, with a plea for their return. 

An odd feeling rose in Harry — an emotion quite 
different from the anger and grief that had filled him 
since Sirius’s death. It was a few moments before he 
realized that he was feeling sorry for Luna. 

“How come people hide your stuff?” he asked her, 
frowning. 

“Oh ... well ...” She shrugged. “I think they think I’m a 
bit odd, you know. Some people call me ‘Loony’ 
Lovegood, actually.” 

Page | 1098Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked at her and the new feeling of pity 
intensified rather painfully. 

“That’s no reason for them to take your things,” he 
said flatly. “D’you want help finding them?” 

“Oh no,” she said, smiling at him. “They’ll come back, 
they always do in the end. It was just that I wanted to 
pack tonight. Anyway ... why aren’t you at the feast?” 

Harry shrugged. “Just didn’t feel like it.” 

“No,” said Luna, observing him with those oddly 
misty, protuberant eyes. “I don’t suppose you do. 

That man the Death Eaters killed was your godfather, 
wasn’t he? Ginny told me.” 

Harry nodded curtly, but found that for some reason 
he did not mind Luna talking about Sirius. He had 
just remembered that she too could see thestrals. 

“Have you ...” he began. “I mean, who ... has anyone 
you’ve known ever died?” 

“Yes,” said Luna simply, “my mother. She was a quite 
extraordinary witch, you know, but she did like to 
experiment and one of her spells went rather badly 
wrong one day. I was nine.” 

“I’m sorry,” Harry mumbled. 

“Yes, it was rather horrible,” said Luna 
conversationally. “I still feel very sad about it 
sometimes. But I’ve still got Dad. And anyway, it’s not 
as though I’ll never see Mum again, is it?” 

“Er — isn’t it?” said Harry uncertainly. 



Page | 1099Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She shook her head in disbelief. “Oh, come on. You 
heard them, just behind the veil, didn’t you?” 

“You mean ...” 

“In that room with the archway. They were just 
lurking out of sight, that’s all. You heard them.” 

They looked at each other. Luna was smiling slightly. 
Harry did not know what to say, or to think. Luna 
believed so many extraordinary things . . . yet he had 
been sure he had heard voices behind the veil too... 

“Are you sure you don’t want me to help you look for 
your stuff?” he said. 

“Oh no,” said Luna. “No, I think I’ll just go down and 
have some pudding and wait for it all to turn up... It 
always does in the end... Well, have a nice holiday, 
Harry.” 

“Yeah ... yeah, you too.” 

She walked away from him, and as he watched her 
go, he found that the terrible weight in his stomach 
seemed to have lessened slightly. 

The journey home on the Hogwarts Express next day 
was eventful in several ways. Firstly, Malfoy, Crabbe, 
and Goyle, who had clearly been waiting all week for 
the opportunity to strike without teacher witnesses, 
attempted to ambush Harry halfway down the train 
as he made his way back from the toilet. The attack 
might have succeeded had it not been for the fact that 
they unwittingly chose to stage the attack right 
outside a compartment full of D.A. members, who saw 
what was happening through the glass and rose as 
one to rush to Harry’s aid. By the time Ernie 
Macmillan, Hannah Abbott, Susan Bones, Justin 
Page | llOOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Finch-Fletchley, Anthony Goldstein, and Terry Boot 
had finished using a wide variety of the hexes and 
jinxes Harry had taught them, Malfoy, Crabbe, and 
Goyle resembled nothing so much as three gigantic 
slugs squeezed into Hogwarts uniforms as Harry, 

Ernie, and Justin hoisted them into the luggage rack 
and left them there to ooze. 

“I must say, I’m looking forward to seeing Malfoy’s 
mother’s face when he gets off the train,” said Ernie 
with some satisfaction, as he watched Malfoy squirm 
above him. Ernie had never quite got over the 
indignity of Malfoy docking points from Hufflepuff 
during his brief spell as a member of the Inquisitorial 
Squad. 

“Goyle’s mum’ll be really pleased, though,” said Ron, 
who had come to investigate the source of the 
commotion. “He’s loads betterlooking now... Anyway, 
Harry, the food trolley’s just stopped if you want 
anything...” 

Harry thanked the others and accompanied Ron back 
to their compartment, where he bought a large pile of 
Cauldron Cakes and Pumpkin Pasties. Hermione was 
reading the Daily Prophet again, Ginny was doing a 
quiz in The Quibbler, and Neville was stroking his 
Mimbulus mimbletonia, which had grown a great deal 
over the year and now made odd crooning noises 
when touched. 

Harry and Ron whiled away most of the journey 
playing wizard chess while Hermione read out 
snippets from the Prophet It was now full of articles 
about how to repel dementors, attempts by the 
Ministry to track down Death Eaters, and hysterical 
letters claiming that the writer had seen Lord 
Voldemort walking past their house that very 
morning. . . 

Page | llOlHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It hasn’t really started yet,” sighed Hermione 
gloomily, folding up the newspaper again. “But it 
won’t be long now...” 

“Hey, Harry,” said Ron, nodding toward the glass 
window onto the corridor. 

Harry looked around. Cho was passing, accompanied 
by Marietta Edgecombe, who was wearing a balaclava. 
His and Cho’s eyes met for a moment. Cho blushed 
and kept walking. Harry looked back down at the 
chessboard just in time to see one of his pawns 
chased off its square by Ron’s knight. 

“What’s — er — going on with you and her anyway?” 
Ron asked quietly. 

“Nothing,” said Harry truthfully. 

“I — er — heard she’s going out with someone else 
now,” said Hermione tentatively. 

Harry was surprised to find that this information did 
not hurt at all. Wanting to impress Cho seemed to 
belong to a past that was no longer quite connected 
with him. So much of what he had wanted before 
Sirius’s death felt that way these days... The week 
that had elapsed since he had last seen Sirius seemed 
to have lasted much, much longer: It stretched across 
two universes, the one with Sirius in it, and the one 
without. 

“You’re well out of it, mate,” said Ron forcefully. “I 
mean, she’s quite good-looking and all that, but you 
want someone a bit more cheerful.” 

“She’s probably cheerful enough with someone else,” 
said Harry, shrugging. 



Page | 1102Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Who’s she with now anyway?” Ron asked Hermione, 
but it was Ginny who answered. 

“Michael Corner,” she said. 

“Michael — but — ” said Ron, craning around in his 
seat to stare at her. “But you were going out with 
him!” 

“Not anymore,” said Ginny resolutely. “He didn’t like 
Gryffindor beating Ravenclaw at Quidditch and got 
really sulky, so I ditched him and he ran off to 
comfort Cho instead.” She scratched her nose 
absently with the end of her quill, turned The 
Quibbler upside down, and began marking her 
answers. Ron looked highly delighted. 

“Well, I always thought he was a bit of an idiot,” he 
said, prodding his queen forward toward Harry’s 
quivering castle. “Good for you. Just choose someone 
— better — next time.” 

He cast Harry an oddly furtive look as he said it. 

“Well, I’ve chosen Dean Thomas, would you say he’s 
better?” asked Ginny vaguely. 

“WHAT?” shouted Ron, upending the chessboard. 
Crookshanks went plunging after the pieces and 
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon twittered and hooted angrily 
from overhead. 

As the train slowed down in the approach to King’s 
Cross, Harry thought he had never wanted to leave it 
less. He even wondered fleetingly what would happen 
if he simply refused to get off, but remained 
stubbornly sitting there until the first of September, 
when it would take him back to Hogwarts. When it 
finally puffed to a standstill, however, he lifted down 
Page | 1103Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hedwig’s cage and prepared to drag his trunk from 
the train as usual. 

When the ticket inspector signaled to him, Ron, and 
Hermione that it was safe to walk through the 
magical barrier between platforms nine and ten, 
however, he found a surprise awaiting him on the 
other side: a group of people standing there to greet 
him whom he had not expected at all. 

There was Mad-Eye Moody, looking quite as sinister 
with his bowler hat pulled low over his magical eye as 
he would have done without it, his gnarled hands 
clutching a long staff, his body wrapped in a 
voluminous traveling cloak. Tonks stood just behind 
him, her bright bubble-gum-pink hair gleaming in the 
sunlight filtering through the dirty glass station 
ceiling, wearing heavily patched jeans and a bright 
purple T-shirt bearing the legend THE WEIRD 
SISTERS. Next to Tonks was Lupin, his face pale, his 
hair graying, a long and threadbare overcoat covering 
a shabby jumper and trousers. At the front of the 
group stood Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, dressed in their 
Muggle best, and Fred and George, who were both 
wearing brand-new jackets in some lurid green, scaly 
material. 

“Ron, Ginny!” called Mrs. Weasley, hurrying forward 
and hugging her children tightly. “Oh, and Harry dear 
— how are you?” 

“Fine,” lied Harry, as she pulled him into a tight 
embrace. Over her shoulder he saw Ron goggling at 
the twins’ new clothes. 

“What are they supposed to be?” he asked, pointing at 
the jackets. 



Page | 1104Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Finest dragon skin, little bro,” said Fred, giving his 
zip a little tweak. “Business is booming and we 
thought we’d treat ourselves.” 

“Hello, Harry,” said Lupin, as Mrs. Weasley let go of 
Harry and turned to greet Hermione. 

“Hi,” said Harry. “I didn’t expect ... what are you all 
doing here?” 

“Well,” said Lupin with a slight smile, “we thought we 
might have a little chat with your aunt and uncle 
before letting them take you home.” 

“I dunno if that’s a good idea,” said Harry at once. 

“Oh, I think it is,” growled Moody, who had limped a 
little closer. “That’ll be them, will it, Potter?” 

He pointed with his thumb over his shoulder; his 
magical eye was evidently peering through the back of 
his head and his bowler hat. Harry leaned an inch or 
so to the left to see where Mad-Eye was pointing and 
there, sure enough, were the three Dursleys, who 
looked positively appalled to see Harry’s reception 
committee. 

“Ah, Harry!” said Mr. Weasley, turning from 
Hermione’s parents, whom he had been greeting 
enthusiastically, and who were taking it in turns to 
hug Hermione. “Well — shall we do it, then?” 

“Yeah, I reckon so, Arthur,” said Moody. 

He and Mr. Weasley took the lead across the station 
toward the place where the Dursleys stood, 
apparently rooted to the floor. Hermione disengaged 
herself gently from her mother to join the group. 



Page | 1105Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Good afternoon,” said Mr. Weasley pleasantly to 
Uncle Vernon, coming to a halt right in front of him. 
“You might remember me, my name’s Arthur 
Weasley.” 

As Mr. Weasley had singlehandedly demolished most 
of the Dursleys’ living room two years previously, 

Harry would have been very surprised if Uncle Vernon 
had forgotten him. Sure enough, Uncle Vernon turned 
a deeper shade of puce and glared at Mr. Weasley, 
but chose not to say anything, partly, perhaps, 
because the Dursleys were outnumbered two to one. 
Aunt Petunia looked both frightened and 
embarrassed. She kept glancing around, as though 
terrified somebody she knew would see her in such 
company. Dudley, meanwhile, seemed to be trying to 
look small and insignificant, a feat at which he was 
failing extravagantly. 

“We thought we’d just have a few words with you 
about Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, still smiling. 

“Yeah,” growled Moody. “About how he’s treated when 
he’s at your place.” 

Uncle Vernon’s mustache seemed to bristle with 
indignation. Possibly because the bowler hat gave him 
the entirely mistaken impression that he was dealing 
with a kindred spirit, he addressed himself to Moody. 

“I am not aware that it is any of your business what 
goes on in my house — ” 

“I expect what you’re not aware of would fill several 
books, Dursley,” growled Moody. 

“Anyway, that’s not the point,” interjected Tonks, 
whose pink hair seemed to offend Aunt Petunia more 
than all the rest put together, for she closed her eyes 

Page | 1106Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




rather than look at her. “The point is, if we find out 
you’ve been horrible to Harry — ” 

“ — and make no mistake, we’ll hear about it,” added 
Lupin pleasantly. 

“Yes,” said Mr. Weasley, “even if you won’t let Harry 
use the fellytone — ” 

“ Telephone ,” whispered Hermione. 

“Yeah, if we get any hint that Potter’s been mistreated 
in any way, you’ll have us to answer to,” said Moody. 

Uncle Vernon swelled ominously. His sense of outrage 
seemed to outweigh even his fear of this bunch of 
oddballs. 

“Are you threatening me, sir?” he said, so loudly that 
passersby actually turned to stare. 

“Yes, I am,” said Mad-Eye, who seemed rather pleased 
that Uncle Vernon had grasped this fact so quickly. 

“And do I look like the kind of man who can be 
intimidated?” barked Uncle Vernon. 

“Well ...” said Moody, pushing back his bowler hat to 
reveal his sinisterly revolving magical eye. Uncle 
Vernon leapt backward in horror and collided 
painfully with a luggage trolley. “Yes, I’d have to say 
you do, Dursley.” 

He turned from Uncle Vernon to Harry. “So, Potter ... 
give us a shout if you need us. If we don’t hear from 
you for three days in a row, well send someone 
along...” 



Page | 1107Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Aunt Petunia whimpered piteously. It could not have 
been plainer that she was thinking of what the 
neighbors would say if they caught sight of these 
people marching up the garden path. 

“ T3ye, then, Potter,” said Moody, grasping Harry’s 
shoulder for a moment with a gnarled hand. 

“Take care, Harry,” said Lupin quietly. “Keep in 
touch.” 

“Harry, we’ll have you away from there as soon as we 
can,” Mrs. Weasley whispered, hugging him again. 

“We’ll see you soon, mate,” said Ron anxiously, 
shaking Harry’s hand. 

“Really soon, Harry,” said Hermione earnestly. “We 
promise.” 

Harry nodded. He somehow could not find words to 
tell them what it meant to him, to see them all ranged 
there, on his side. Instead he smiled, raised a hand in 
farewell, turned around, and led the way out of the 
station toward the sunlit street, with Uncle Vernon, 
Aunt Petunia, and Dudley hurrying along in his wake. 



Page | 1108Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




