“Yeah?” said Harry coldly as Cedric ran up the stairs 
toward him. 

Cedric looked as though he didn’t want to say 
whatever it was in front of Ron, who shrugged, 
looking bad-tempered, and continued to climb the 
stairs. 

“Listen ...” Cedric lowered his voice as Ron 
disappeared. “I owe you one for telling me about the 
dragons. You know that golden egg? Does yours wail 
when you open it?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“Well ... take a bath, okay?” 

“What?” 

“Take a bath, and — er — take the egg with you, and 
— er — just mull things over in the hot water. It’ll 
help you think. ... Trust me.” 

Page | 476 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared at him. 

“Tell you what,” Cedric said, “use the prefects’ 
bathroom. Fourth door to the left of that statue of 
Boris the Bewildered on the fifth floor. Password’s 
‘pine fresh. ’ Gotta go . . . want to say good night — ” 

He grinned at Harry again and hurried back down the 
stairs to Cho. 

Harry walked back to Gryffindor Tower alone. That 
had been extremely strange advice. Why would a bath 
help him to work out what the wailing egg meant? 
Was Cedric pulling his leg? Was he trying to make 
Harry look like a fool, so Cho would like him even 
more by comparison? 

The Fat Lady and her friend Vi were snoozing in the 
picture over the portrait hole. Harry had to yell “Fairy 
lights!” before he woke them up, and when he did, 
they were extremely irritated. He climbed into the 
common room and found Ron and Hermione having a 
blazing row. Standing ten feet apart, they were 
bellowing at each other, each scarlet in the face. 

“Well, if you don’t like it, you know what the solution 
is, don’t you?” yelled Hermione; her hair was coming 
down out of its elegant bun now, and her face was 
screwed up in anger. 

“Oh yeah?” Ron yelled back. “What’s that?” 

“Next time there’s a ball, ask me before someone else 
does, and not as a last resort!” 

Ron mouthed soundlessly like a goldfish out of water 
as Hermione turned on her heel and stormed up the 
girls’ staircase to bed. Ron turned to look at Harry. 



Page | 477 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well,” he sputtered, looking thunderstruck, “well — 
that just proves — completely missed the point — ” 

Harry didn’t say anything. He liked being back on 
speaking terms with Ron too much to speak his mind 
right now — but he somehow thought that Hermione 
had gotten the point much better than Ron had. 



Page | 478 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






RITA SKEBTER’S SCOOP 

Everybody got up late on Boxing Day. The Gryffindor 
common room was much quieter than it had been 
lately, many yawns punctuating the lazy 
conversations. Hermione’s hair was bushy again; she 
confessed to Harry that she had used liberal amounts 
of Sleekeazy’s Hair Potion on it for the ball, “but it’s 
way too much bother to do every day,” she said 
matter-of-factly, scratching a purring Crookshanks 
behind the ears. 

Ron and Hermione seemed to have reached an 
unspoken agreement not to discuss their argument. 
They were being quite friendly to each other, though 
oddly formal. Ron and Harry wasted no time in telling 
Hermione about the conversation they had overheard 
between Madame Maxime and Hagrid, but Hermione 
didn’t seem to find the news that Hagrid was a half- 
giant nearly as shocking as Ron did. 

“Well, I thought he must be,” she said, shrugging. “I 
knew he couldn’t be pure giant because they’re about 
twenty feet tall. But honestly, all this hysteria about 

Page | 479 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




giants. They can’t all be horrible. ... It’s the same sort 
of prejudice that people have toward werewolves. ... 

It’s just bigotry, isn’t it?” 

Ron looked as though he would have liked to reply 
scathingly, but perhaps he didn’t want another row, 
because he contented himself with shaking his head 
disbelievingly while Hermione wasn’t looking. 

It was time now to think of the homework they had 
neglected during the first week of the holidays. 
Everybody seemed to be feeling rather flat now that 
Christmas was over — everybody except Harry, that 
is, who was starting (once again) to feel slightly 
nervous. 

The trouble was that February the twenty-fourth 
looked a lot closer from this side of Christmas, and he 
still hadn’t done anything about working out the clue 
inside the golden egg. He therefore started taking the 
egg out of his trunk every time he went up to the 
dormitory, opening it, and listening intently, hoping 
that this time it would make some sense. He strained 
to think what the sound reminded him of, apart from 
thirty musical saws, but he had never heard anything 
else like it. He closed the egg, shook it vigorously, and 
opened it again to see if the sound had changed, but 
it hadn’t. He tried asking the egg questions, shouting 
over all the wailing, but nothing happened. He even 
threw the egg across the room — though he hadn’t 
really expected that to help. 

Harry had not forgotten the hint that Cedric had 
given him, but his less-than-friendly feelings toward 
Cedric just now meant that he was keen not to take 
his help if he could avoid it. In any case, it seemed to 
him that if Cedric had really wanted to give Harry a 
hand, he would have been a lot more explicit. He, 
Harry, had told Cedric exactly what was coming in 
Page | 480 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the first task — and Cedric’s idea of a fair exchange 
had been to tell Harry to take a bath. Well, he didn’t 
need that sort of rubbishy help — not from someone 
who kept walking down corridors hand in hand with 
Cho, anyway. And so the first day of the new term 
arrived, and Harry set off to lessons, weighed down 
with books, parchment, and quills as usual, but also 
with the lurking worry of the egg heavy in his 
stomach, as though he were carrying that around 
with him too. 

Snow was still thick upon the grounds, and the 
greenhouse windows were covered in condensation so 
thick that they couldn’t see out of them in Herbology. 
Nobody was looking forward to Care of Magical 
Creatures much in this weather, though as Ron said, 
the skrewts would probably warm them up nicely, 
either by chasing them, or blasting off so forcefully 
that Hagrid’s cabin would catch fire. 

When they arrived at Hagrid’s cabin, however, they 
found an elderly witch with closely cropped gray hair 
and a very prominent chin standing before his front 
door. 

“Hurry up, now, the bell rang five minutes ago,” she 
barked at them as they struggled toward her through 
the snow. 

“Who ’re you?” said Ron, staring at her. “Where’s 
Hagrid?” 

“My name is Professor Grubbly-Plank,” she said 
briskly. “I am your temporary Care of Magical 
Creatures teacher.” 

“Where’s Hagrid?” Harry repeated loudly. 



Page | 481 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He is indisposed,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank 
shortly. 

Soft and unpleasant laughter reached Harry’s ears. 

He turned; Draco Malfoy and the rest of the 
Slytherins were joining the class. All of them looked 
gleeful, and none of them looked surprised to see 
Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

“This way, please,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, and 
she strode off around the paddock where the 
Beauxbatons horses were shivering. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione followed her, looking back over their 
shoulders at Hagrid’s cabin. All the curtains were 
closed. Was Hagrid in there, alone and ill? 

“What’s wrong with Hagrid?” Harry said, hurrying to 
catch up with Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

“Never you mind,” she said as though she thought he 
was being nosy. 

“I do mind, though,” said Harry hotly. “What’s up with 
him?” 

Professor Grubbly-Plank acted as though she couldn’t 
hear him. She led them past the paddock where the 
huge Beauxbatons horses were standing, huddled 
against the cold, and toward a tree on the edge of the 
forest, where a large and beautiful unicorn was 
tethered. 

Many of the girls “ooooohed!” at the sight of the 
unicorn. 

“Oh it’s so beautiful!” whispered Lavender Brown. 
“How did she get it? They’re supposed to be really 
hard to catch!” 



Page | 482 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The unicorn was so brightly white it made the snow 
all around look gray. It was pawing the ground 
nervously with its golden hooves and throwing back 
its horned head. 

“Boys keep back!” barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, 
throwing out an arm and catching Harry hard in the 
chest. “They prefer the woman’s touch, unicorns. 
Girls to the front, and approach with care, come on, 
easy does it. ...” 

She and the girls walked slowly forward toward the 
unicorn, leaving the boys standing near the paddock 
fence, watching. The moment Professor Grubbly- 
Plank was out of earshot, Harry turned to Ron. 

“What d’you reckon’s wrong with him? You don’t 
think a skrewt — ?” 

“Oh he hasn’t been attacked, Potter, if that’s what 
you’re thinking,” said Malfoy softly. “No, he’s just too 
ashamed to show his big, ugly face.” 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry sharply. 

Malfoy put his hand inside the pocket of his robes 
and pulled out a folded page of newsprint. 

“There you go,” he said. “Hate to break it to you, 
Potter. ...” 

He smirked as Harry snatched the page, unfolded it, 
and read it, with Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville 
looking over his shoulder. It was an article topped 
with a picture of Hagrid looking extremely shifty. 

DUMBLEDORE’S GIANT MISTAKE 



Page | 483 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Albus Dumbledore, eccentric Headmaster of Hogwarts 
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, has never been 
afraid to make controversial staff appointments, writes 
Rita Skeeter, Special Correspondent. In September of 
this year, he hired Alastor “Mad-Eye” Moody, the 
notoriously jinx-happy ex-Auror, to teach Defense 
Against the Dark Arts, a decision that caused many 
raised eyebrows at the Ministry of Magic, given 
Moody’s well-known habit of attacking anybody who 
makes a sudden movement in his presence. Mad-Eye 
Moody, however, looks responsible and kindly when 
set beside the part-human Dumbledore employs to 
teach Care of Magical Creatures. 

Rubeus Hagrid, who admits to being expelled from 
Hogwarts in his third year, has enjoyed the position of 
gamekeeper at the school ever since, a job secured for 
him by Dumbledore. Last year, however, Hagrid used 
his mysterious influence over the headmaster to 
secure the additional post of Care of Magical 
Creatures teacher, over the heads of many better- 
qualified candidates. 

An alarmingly large and ferocious-looking man, 

Hagrid has been using his newfound authority to 
terrify the students in his care with a succession of 
horrific creatures. While Dumbledore turns a blind 
eye, Hagrid has maimed several pupils during a series 
of lessons that many admit to being “very 
frightening.” 

“I was attacked by a hippogriff, and my friend Vincent 
Crabbe got a bad bite off a flobberworm,” says Draco 
Malfoy, a fourth-year student. “We all hate Hagrid, 
but we’re just too scared to say anything.” 

Hagrid has no intention of ceasing his campaign of 
intimidation, however. In conversation with a Daily 
Prophet reporter last month, he admitted breeding 

Page | 484 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




creatures he has dubbed “Blast-Ended Skrewts, ” 
highly dangerous crosses between manticores and fire- 
crabs. The creation of new breeds of magical creature 
is, of course, an activity usually closely observed by 
the Department for the Regulation and Control of 
Magical Creatures. Hagrid, however, considers himself 
to be above such petty restrictions. 

“I was just having some fun,” he says, before hastily 
changing the subject. 

As if this were not enough, the Daily Prophet has now 
unearthed evidence that Hagrid is not — as he has 
always pretended — a pure-blood wizard. He is not, in 
fact, even pure human. His mother, we can exclusively 
reveal, is none other than the giantess Fridwulfa, 
whose whereabouts are currently unknown. 

Bloodthirsty and brutal, the giants brought 
themselves to the point of extinction by warring 
amongst themselves during the last century. The 
handful that remained joined the ranks of He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named, and were responsible for some 
of the worst mass Muggle killings of his reign of 
terror. 

While many of the giants who served He-Who-Must- 
Not-Be-Named were killed by Aurors working against 
the Dark Side, Fridwulfa was not among them. It is 
possible she escaped to one of the giant communities 
still existing in foreign mountain ranges. If his antics 
during Care of Magical Creatures lessons are any 
guide, however, Fridwulfa’s son appears to have 
inherited her brutal nature. 

In a bizarre twist, Hagrid is reputed to have developed 
a close friendship with the boy who brought around 
You-Know- Who’s fall from power — thereby driving 
Hagrid ’s own mother, like the rest of You-Know- Who’s 

Page | 485 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




supporters, into hiding. Perhaps Harry Potter is 
unaware of the unpleasant truth about his large 
friend — but Albus Dumbledore surely has a duty to 
ensure that Harry Potter, along with his fellow 
students, is warned about the dangers of associating 
with part-giants. 



Harry finished reading and looked up at Ron, whose 
mouth was hanging open. 

“How did she find out?” he whispered. 

But that wasn’t what was bothering Harry. 

“What d’you mean, “we all hate Hagrid’?” Harry spat 
at Malfoy. “What’s this rubbish about him” — he 
pointed at Crabbe — “getting a bad bite off a 
flobberworm? They haven’t even got teeth!” 

Crabbe was sniggering, apparently very pleased with 
himself. 

“Well, I think this should put an end to the oaf’s 
teaching career,” said Malfoy, his eyes glinting. “Half- 
giant ... and there was me thinking he’d just 
swallowed a bottle of Skele-Gro when he was young. 

... None of the mummies and daddies are going to like 
this at all. ... They’ll be worried he’ll eat their kids, ha, 
ha. ...” 

“You — ” 

“Are you paying attention over there?” 

Professor Grubbly-Plank’s voice carried over to the 
boys; the girls were all clustered around the unicorn 
now, stroking it. Harry was so angry that the Daily 

Page |486 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Prophet article shook in his hands as he turned to 
stare unseeingly at the unicorn, whose many magical 
properties Professor Grubbly-Plank was now 
enumerating in a loud voice, so that the boys could 
hear too. 

“I hope she stays, that woman!” said Parvati Patil 
when the lesson had ended and they were all heading 
back to the castle for lunch. “That’s more what I 
thought Care of Magical Creatures would be like . . . 
proper creatures like unicorns, not monsters. ...” 

“What about Hagrid?” Harry said angrily as they went 
up the steps. 

“What about him?” said Parvati in a hard voice. “He 
can still be gamekeeper, can’t he?” 

Parvati had been very cool toward Harry since the 
ball. He supposed that he ought to have paid her a bit 
more attention, but she seemed to have had a good 
time all the same. She was certainly telling anybody 
who would listen that she had made arrangements to 
meet the boy from Beauxbatons in Hogsmeade on the 
next weekend trip. 

“That was a really good lesson,” said Hermione as 
they entered the Great Hall. “I didn’t know half the 
things Professor Grubbly-Plank told us about uni — ” 

“Look at this!” Harry snarled, and he shoved the Daily 
Prophet article under Hermione ’s nose. 

Hermione ’s mouth fell open as she read. Her reaction 
was exactly the same as Ron’s. 

“How did that horrible Skeeter woman find out? You 
don’t think Hagrid told her?” 



Page | 487 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry, leading the way over to the 
Gryffindor table and throwing himself into a chair, 
furious. “He never even told us, did he? I reckon she 
was so mad he wouldn’t give her loads of horrible 
stuff about me, she went ferreting around to get him 
back.” 

“Maybe she heard him telling Madame Maxime at the 
ball,” said Hermione quietly. 

“We’d have seen her in the garden!” said Ron. 
“Anyway, she’s not supposed to come into school 
anymore, Hagrid said Dumbledore banned her. ...” 

“Maybe she’s got an Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry, 
ladling chicken casserole onto his plate and splashing 
it everywhere in his anger. “Sort of thing she’d do, 
isn’t it, hide in bushes listening to people.” 

“Like you and Ron did, you mean,” said Hermione. 

“We weren’t trying to hear him!” said Ron indignantly. 
“We didn’t have any choice! The stupid prat, talking 
about his giantess mother where anyone could have 
heard him!” 

“We’ve got to go and see him,” said Harry. “This 
evening, after Divination. Tell him we want him back 
... you do want him back?” he shot at Hermione. 

“I — well, I’m not going to pretend it didn’t make a 
nice change, having a proper Care of Magical 
Creatures lesson for once — but I do want Hagrid 
back, of course I do!” Hermione added hastily, 
quailing under Harry’s furious stare. 

So that evening after dinner, the three of them left the 
castle once more and went down through the frozen 



Page | 488 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




grounds to Hagrid’s cabin. They knocked, and Fang’s 
booming barks answered. 

“Hagrid, it’s us!” Harry shouted, pounding on the 
door. “Open up! 

Hagrid didn’t answer. They could hear Fang 
scratching at the door, whining, but it didn’t open. 
They hammered on it for ten more minutes; Ron even 
went and banged on one of the windows, but there 
was no response. 

“What’s he avoiding us for?” Hermione said when they 
had finally given up and were walking back to the 
school. “He surely doesn’t think we’d care about him 
being half-giant?” 

But it seemed that Hagrid did care. They didn’t see a 
sign of him all week. He didn’t appear at the staff 
table at mealtimes, they didn’t see him going about 
his gamekeeper duties on the grounds, and Professor 
Grubbly-Plank continued to take the Care of Magical 
Creatures classes. Malfoy was gloating at every 
possible opportunity. 

“Missing your half-breed pal?” he kept whispering to 
Harry whenever there was a teacher around, so that 
he was safe from Harry’s retaliation. “Missing the 
elephant-man?” 

There was a Hogsmeade visit halfway through 
January. Hermione was very surprised that Harry 
was going to go. 

“I just thought you’d want to take advantage of the 
common room being quiet,” she said. “Really get to 
work on that egg.” 



Page | 489 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh I — I reckon I’ve got a pretty good idea what it’s 
about now,” Harry lied. 

“Have you really?” said Hermione, looking impressed. 
“Well done!” 

Harry’s insides gave a guilty squirm, but he ignored 
them. He still had five weeks to work out that egg 
clue, after all, and that was ages ... whereas if he 
went into Hogsmeade, he might run into Hagrid, and 
get a chance to persuade him to come back. 

He, Ron, and Hermione left the castle together on 
Saturday and set off through the cold, wet grounds 
toward the gates. As they passed the Durmstrang 
ship moored in the lake, they saw Viktor Krum 
emerge onto the deck, dressed in nothing but 
swimming trunks. He was very skinny indeed, but 
apparently a lot tougher than he looked, because he 
climbed up onto the side of the ship, stretched out his 
arms, and dived, right into the lake. 

“He’s mad!” said Harry, staring at Krum’s dark head 
as it bobbed out into the middle of the lake. “It must 
be freezing, it’s January!” 

“It’s a lot colder where he comes from,” said 
Hermione. “I suppose it feels quite warm to him.” 

“Yeah, but there’s still the giant squid,” said Ron. He 
didn’t sound anxious — if anything, he sounded 
hopeful. Hermione noticed his tone of voice and 
frowned. 

“He’s really nice, you know,” she said. “He’s not at all 
like you’d think, coming from Durmstrang. He likes it 
much better here, he told me.” 



Page | 490 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Ron said nothing. He hadn’t mentioned Viktor Krum 
since the ball, but Harry had found a miniature arm 
under his bed on Boxing Day, which had looked very 
much as though it had been snapped off a small 
model figure wearing Bulgarian Quidditch robes. 

Harry kept his eyes skinned for a sign of Hagrid all 
the way down the slushy High Street, and suggested a 
visit to the Three Broomsticks once he had 
ascertained that Hagrid was not in any of the shops. 

The pub was as crowded as ever, but one quick look 
around at all the tables told Harry that Hagrid wasn’t 
there. Heart sinking, he went up to the bar with Ron 
and Hermione, ordered three butter-beers from 
Madam Rosmerta, and thought gloomily that he 
might just as well have stayed behind and listened to 
the egg wailing after all. 

“Doesn’t he ever go into the office?” Hermione 
whispered suddenly. “Look!” 

She pointed into the mirror behind the bar, and Harry 
saw Ludo Bagman reflected there, sitting in a 
shadowy corner with a bunch of goblins. Bagman was 
talking very fast in a low voice to the goblins, all of 
whom had their arms crossed and were looking rather 
menacing. 

It was indeed odd, Harry thought, that Bagman was 
here at the Three Broomsticks on a weekend when 
there was no Triwizard event, and therefore no 
judging to be done. He watched Bagman in the 
mirror. He was looking strained again, quite as 
strained as he had that night in the forest before the 
Dark Mark had appeared. But just then Bagman 
glanced over at the bar, saw Harry, and stood up. 



Page | 491 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“In a moment, in a moment!” Harry heard him say 
brusquely to the goblins, and Bagman hurried 
through the pub toward Harry, his boyish grin back 
in place. 

“Harry!” he said. “How are you? Been hoping to run 
into you! Everything going all right?” 

“Fine, thanks,” said Harry. 

“Wonder if I could have a quick, private word, Harry?” 
said Bagman eagerly. “You couldn’t give us a 
moment, you two, could you?” 

“Er — okay,” said Ron, and he and Hermione went off 
to find a table. 

Bagman led Harry along the bar to the end furthest 
from Madam Rosmerta. 

“Well, I just thought I’d congratulate you again on 
your splendid performance against that Horntail, 
Harry,” said Bagman. “Really superb.” 

“Thanks,” said Harry, but he knew this couldn’t be all 
that Bagman wanted to say, because he could have 
congratulated Harry in front of Ron and Hermione. 
Bagman didn’t seem in any particular rush to spill 
the beans, though. Harry saw him glance into the 
mirror over the bar at the goblins, who were all 
watching him and Harry in silence through their 
dark, slanting eyes. 

“Absolute nightmare,” said Bagman to Harry in an 
undertone, noticing Harry watching the goblins too. 
“Their English isn’t too good ... it’s like being back 
with all the Bulgarians at the Quidditch World Cup ... 
but at least they used sign language another human 
could recognize. This lot keep gabbling in 
Page | 492 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Gobbledegook . . . and I only know one word of 
Gobbledegook. Bladvak. It means ‘pickax.’ I don’t like 
to use it in case they think I’m threatening them.” 

He gave a short, booming laugh. 

“What do they want?” Harry said, noticing how the 
goblins were still watching Bagman very closely. 

“Er — well ...” said Bagman, looking suddenly 
nervous. “They ... er ... they’re looking for Barry 
Crouch.” 

“Why are they looking for him here?” said Harry. “He’s 
at the Ministry in London, isn’t he?” 

“Er ... as a matter of fact, I’ve no idea where he is,” 
said Bagman. “He’s sort of ... stopped coming to work. 
Been absent for a couple of weeks now. Young Percy, 
his assistant, says he’s ill. Apparently he’s just been 
sending instructions in by owl. But would you mind 
not mentioning that to anyone, Harry? Because Rita 
Skeeter’s still poking around everywhere she can, and 
I’m willing to bet she’d work up Barty’s illness into 
something sinister. Probably say he’s gone missing 
like Bertha Jorkins.” 

“Have you heard anything about Bertha Jorkins?” 
Harry asked. 

“No,” said Bagman, looking strained again. “I’ve got 
people looking, of course ...” (About time, thought 
Harry) “and it’s all very strange. She definitely arrived 
in Albania, because she met her second cousin there. 
And then she left the cousin’s house to go south and 
see an aunt . . . and she seems to have vanished 
without trace en route. Blowed if I can see where 
she’s got to ... she doesn’t seem the type to elope, for 
instance ... but still. ... What are we doing, talking 
Page | 493 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




about goblins and Bertha Jorkins? I really wanted to 
ask you” — he lowered his voice — “how are you 
getting on with your golden egg?” 

“Er ... not bad,” Harry said untruthfully. 

Bagman seemed to know he wasn’t being honest. 

“Listen, Harry,” he said (still in a very low voice), “I 
feel very bad about all this . . . you were thrown into 
this tournament, you didn’t volunteer for it... and if 
...” (his voice was so quiet now, Harry had to lean 
closer to listen) “if I can help at all ... a prod in the 
right direction ... I’ve taken a liking to you ... the way 
you got past that dragon! ... well, just say the word.” 

Harry stared up into Bagman’s round, rosy face and 
his wide, baby-blue eyes. 

“We’re supposed to work out the clues alone, aren’t 
we?” he said, careful to keep his voice casual and not 
sound as though he was accusing the head of the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports of breaking 
the rules. 

“Well ... well, yes,” said Bagman impatiently, “but — 
come on, Harry — we all want a Hogwarts victory, 
don’t we?” 

“Have you offered Cedric help?” Harry said. 

The smallest of frowns creased Bagman’s smooth 
face. “No, I haven’t,” he said. “I — well, like I say, I’ve 
taken a liking to you. Just thought I’d offer ...” 

“Well, thanks,” said Harry, “but I think I’m nearly 
there with the egg . . . couple more days should crack 
it.” 



Page | 494 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He wasn’t entirely sure why he was refusing 
Bagman’s help, except that Bagman was almost a 
stranger to him, and accepting his assistance would 
feel somehow much more like cheating than asking 
advice from Ron, Hermione, or Sirius. 

Bagman looked almost affronted, but couldn’t say 
much more as Fred and George turned up at that 
point. 

“Hello, Mr. Bagman,” said Fred brightly. “Can we buy 
you a drink?” 

“Er ... no,” said Bagman, with a last disappointed 
glance at Harry, “no, thank you, boys ...” 

Fred and George looked quite as disappointed as 
Bagman, who was surveying Harry as though he had 
let him down badly. 

“Well, I must dash,” he said. “Nice seeing you all. 

Good luck, Harry.” 

He hurried out of the pub. The goblins all slid off their 
chairs and exited after him. Harry went to rejoin Ron 
and Hermione. 

“What did he want?” Ron said, the moment Harry had 
sat down. 

“He offered to help me with the golden egg,” said 
Harry. 

“He shouldn’t be doing that!” said Hermione, looking 
very shocked. “He’s one of the judges! And anyway, 
you’ve already worked it out — haven’t you?” 

“Er ... nearly,” said Harry. 



Page | 495 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, I don’t think Dumbledore would like it if he 
knew Bagman was trying to persuade you to cheat!” 
said Hermione, still looking deeply disapproving. “I 
hope he’s trying to help Cedric as much!” 

“He’s not, I asked,” said Harry. 

“Who cares if Diggory’s getting help?” said Ron. Harry 
privately agreed. 

“Those goblins didn’t look very friendly,” said 
Hermione, sipping her butterbeer. “What were they 
doing here?” 

“Looking for Crouch, according to Bagman,” said 
Harry. “He’s still ill. Hasn’t been into work.” 

“Maybe Percy’s poisoning him,” said Ron. “Probably 
thinks if Crouch snuffs it he’ll be made head of the 
Department of International Magical Cooperation.” 

Hermione gave Ron a don’t -joke-about-things-like- 
that look, and said, “Funny, goblins looking for Mr. 
Crouch. . . . They’d normally deal with the Department 
for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures.” 

“Crouch can speak loads of different languages, 
though,” said Harry. “Maybe they need an 
interpreter.” 

“Worrying about poor ’ickle goblins, now, are you?” 
Ron asked Hermione. “Thinking of starting up 
S.P.U.G. or something? Society for the Protection of 
Ugly Goblins?” 

“Ha, ha, ha,” said Hermione sarcastically. “Goblins 
don’t need protection. Haven’t you been listening to 
what Professor Binns has been telling us about goblin 
rebellions?” 

Page | 496 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry and Ron together. 

“Well, they’re quite capable of dealing with wizards,” 
said Hermione, taking another sip of butterbeer. 
“They’re very clever. They’re not like house-elves, who 
never stick up for themselves.” 

“Uh-oh,” said Ron, staring at the door. 

Rita Skeeter had just entered. She was wearing 
banana-yellow robes today; her long nails were 
painted shocking pink, and she was accompanied by 
her paunchy photographer. She bought drinks, and 
she and the photographer made their way through 
the crowds to a table nearby, Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione glaring at her as she approached. She was 
talking fast and looking very satisfied about 
something. 

"... didn’t seem very keen to talk to us, did he, Bozo? 
Now, why would that be, do you think? And what’s he 
doing with a pack of goblins in tow anyway? Showing 
them the sights . . . what nonsense ... he was always a 
bad liar. Reckon something’s up? Think we should do 
a bit of digging? ‘Disgraced Ex-Head of Magical 
Games and Sports, Ludo Bagman ...’ Snappy start to 
a sentence, Bozo — we just need to find a story to fit 
it — ” 



“Trying to ruin someone else’s life?” said Harry loudly. 

A few people looked around. Rita Skeeter ’s eyes 
widened behind her jeweled spectacles as she saw 
who had spoken. 

“Harry!” she said, beaming. “How lovely! Why don’t 
you come and join — ?” 



Page | 497 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I wouldn’t come near you with a ten-foot 
broomstick,” said Harry furiously. “What did you do 
that to Hagrid for, eh?” 

Rita Skeeter raised her heavily penciled eyebrows. 

“Our readers have a right to the truth, Harry. I am 
merely doing my — ” 
