      answered by a strange silence. An enigma to him from the day that
      he first saw her, she was an enigma to him still....

      Bosinney was waiting for him at the door; and on his rugged,
      good-looking, face was a queer, yearning, yet happy look, as
      though he too saw a promise of bliss in the spring sky, sniffed a
      coming happiness in the spring air. Soames looked at him waiting
      there. What was the matter with the fellow that he looked so
      happy? What was he waiting for with that smile on his lips and in
      his eyes? Soames could not see that for which Bosinney was
      waiting as he stood there drinking in the flower-scented wind.
      And once more he felt baffled in the presence of this man whom by
      habit he despised. He hastened on to the house.

      “The only colour for those tiles,” he heard Bosinney say, “is
      ruby with a grey tint in the stuff, to give a transparent effect.
      I should like Irene’s opinion. I’m ordering the purple leather
      curtains for the doorway of this court; and if you distemper the
      drawing-room ivory cream over paper, you’ll get an illusive look.
      You want to aim all through the decorations at what I call
      charm.”

      Soames said: “You mean that my wife has charm!”

      Bosinney evaded the question.

      “You should have a clump of iris plants in the centre of that
      court.”

      Soames smiled superciliously.

      “I’ll look into Beech’s some time,” he said, “and see what’s
      appropriate!”

      They found little else to say to each other, but on the way to
      the Station Soames asked:

      “I suppose you find Irene very artistic.”

      “Yes.” The abrupt answer was as distinct a snub as saying: “If
      you want to discuss her you can do it with someone else!”

      And the slow, sulky anger Soames had felt all the afternoon
      burned the brighter within him.

      Neither spoke again till they were close to the Station, then
      Soames asked:

      “When do you expect to have finished?”

      “By the end of June, if you really wish me to decorate as well.”

      Soames nodded. “But you quite understand,” he said, “that the
      house is costing me a lot beyond what I contemplated. I may as
      well tell you that I should have thrown it up, only I’m not in
      the habit of giving up what I’ve set my mind on.”

      Bosinney made no reply. And Soames gave him askance a look of
      dogged dislike—for in spite of his fastidious air and that
      supercilious, dandified taciturnity, Soames, with his set lips
      and squared chin, was not unlike a bulldog....

      When, at seven o’clock that evening, June arrived at 62,
      Montpellier Square, the maid Bilson told her that Mr. Bosinney
      was in the drawing-room; the mistress—she said—was dressing, and
      would be down in a minute. She would tell her that Miss June was
      here.

      June stopped her at once.

      “All right, Bilson,” she said, “I’ll just go in. You, needn’t
      hurry Mrs. Soames.”

      She took off her cloak, and Bilson, with an understanding look,
      did not even open the drawing-room door for her, but ran
      downstairs.

      June paused for a moment to look at herself in the little
      old-fashioned silver mirror above the oaken rug chest—a slim,
      imperious young figure, with a small resolute face, in a white
      frock, cut moon-shaped at the base of a neck too slender for her
      crown of twisted red-gold hair.

      She opened the drawing-room door softly, meaning to take him by
      surprise. The room was filled with a sweet hot scent of flowering
      azaleas.

      She took a long breath of the perfume, and heard Bosinney’s
      voice, not in the room, but quite close, saying.

      “Ah! there were such heaps of things I wanted to talk about, and
      now we shan’t have time!”

      Irene’s voice answered: “Why not at dinner?”

      “How can one talk....”

      Jun’s first thought was to go away, but instead she crossed to
      the long window opening on the little court. It was from there
      that the scent of the azaleas came, and, standing with their
      backs to her, their faces buried in the golden-pink blossoms,
      stood her lover and Irene.

      Silent but unashamed, with flaming cheeks and angry eyes, the
      girl watched.

      “Come on Sunday by yourself—We can go over the house together.”

      June saw Irene look up at him through her screen of blossoms. It
      was not the look of a coquette, but—far worse to the watching
      girl—of a woman fearful lest that look should say too much.

      “I’ve promised to go for a drive with Uncle....”

      “The big one! Make him bring you; it’s only ten miles—the very
      thing for his horses.”

      “Poor old Uncle Swithin!”

      A wave of the azalea scent drifted into Jun’s face; she felt sick
      and dizzy.

      “Do! ah! do!”

      “But why?”

      “I must see you there—I thought you’d like to help me....”

      The answer seemed to the girl to come softly with a tremble from
      amongst the blossoms: “So I do!”

      And she stepped into the open space of the window.

      “How stuffy it is here!” she said; “I can’t bear this scent!”

      Her eyes, so angry and direct, swept both their faces.

      “Were you talking about the house? _I_ haven’t seen it yet, you
      know—shall we all go on Sunday?”

      From Irene’s face the colour had flown.

      “I am going for a drive that day with Uncle Swithin,” she
      answered.

      “Uncle Swithin! What does he matter? You can throw him over!”

      “I am not in the habit of throwing people over!”

      There was a sound of footsteps and June saw Soames standing just
      behind her.

      “Well! if you are all ready,” said Irene, looking from one to the
      other with a strange smile, “dinner is too!”




      CHAPTER II JUNE’S TREAT

      Dinner began in silence; the women facing one another, and the
      men.

      In silence the soup was finished—excellent, if a little thick;
      and fish was brought. In silence it was handed.

      Bosinney ventured: “It’s the first spring day.”

      Irene echoed softly: “Yes—the first spring day.”

      “Spring!” said June: “there isn’t a breath of air!” No one
      replied.

      The fish was taken away, a fine fresh sole from Dover. And Bilson
      brought champagne, a bottle swathed around the neck with
      white....

      Soames said: “You’ll find it dry.”

      Cutlets were handed, each pink-frilled about the legs. They were
      refused by June, and silence fell.

      Soames said: “You’d better take a cutlet, June; there’s nothing
      coming.”

      But June again refused, so they were borne away. And then Irene
      asked: “Phil, have you heard my blackbird?”

      Bosinney answered: “Rather—he’s got a hunting-song. As I came
      round I heard him in the Square.”

      “He’s such a darling!”

      “Salad, sir?” Spring chicken was removed.

      But Soames was speaking: “The asparagus is very poor. Bosinney,
      glass of sherry with your sweet? June, you’re drinking nothing!”

      June said: “You know I never do. Wine’s such horrid stuff!”

      An apple charlotte came upon a silver dish, and smilingly Irene
      said: “The azaleas are so wonderful this year!”

      To this Bosinney murmured: “Wonderful! The scent’s
      extraordinary!”

      June said: “How can you like the scent? Sugar, please, Bilson.”

      Sugar was handed her, and Soames remarked: “This charlotte’s
      good!”

      The charlotte was removed. Long silence followed. Irene,
      beckoning, said: “Take out the azalea, Bilson. Miss June can’t
      bear the scent.”

      “No; let it stay,” said June.

      Olives from France, with Russian caviare, were placed on little
      plates. And Soames remarked: “Why can’t we have the Spanish?” But
      no one answered.

      The olives were removed. Lifting her tumbler June demanded: “Give
      me some water, please.” Water was given her. A silver tray was
      brought, with German plums. There was a lengthy pause. In perfect
      harmony all were eating them.

      Bosinney counted up the stones: “This year—next year—some time.”

      Irene finished softly: “Never! There was such a glorious sunset.
      The sky’s all ruby still—so beautiful!”

      He answered: “Underneath the dark.”

      Their eyes had met, and June cried scornfully: “A London sunset!”

      Egyptian cigarettes were handed in a silver box. Soames, taking
      one, remarked: “What time’s your play begin?”

      No one replied, and Turkish coffee followed in enamelled cups.

      Irene, smiling quietly, said: “If only....”

      “Only what?” said June.

      “If only it could always be the spring!”

      Brandy was handed; it was pale and old.

      Soames said: “Bosinney, better take some brandy.”

      Bosinney took a glass; they all arose.

      “You want a cab?” asked Soames.

      June answered: “No! My cloaks please, Bilson.” Her cloak was
      brought.

      Irene, from the window, murmured: “Such a lovely night! The stars
      are coming out!”

      Soames added: “Well, I hope you’ll both enjoy yourselves.”

      From the door June answered: “Thanks. Come, Phil.”

      Bosinney cried: “I’m coming.”

      Soames smiled a sneering smile, and said: “I wish you luck!”

      And at the door Irene watched them go.

      Bosinney called: “Good night!”

      “Good night!” she answered softly....

      June made her lover take her on the top of a ’bus, saying she
      wanted air, and there sat silent, with her face to the breeze.

      The driver turned once or twice, with the intention of venturing
      a remark, but thought better of it. They were a lively couple!
      The spring had got into his blood, too; he felt the need for
      letting steam escape, and clucked his tongue, flourishing his
      whip, wheeling his horses, and even they, poor things, had
      smelled the spring, and for a brief half-hour spurned the
      pavement with happy hoofs.

      The whole town was alive; the boughs, curled upward with their
      decking of young leaves, awaited some gift the breeze could
      bring. New-lighted lamps were gaining mastery, and the faces of
      the crowd showed pale under that glare, while on high the great
      white clouds slid swiftly, softly, over the purple sky.

      Men in evening dress had thrown back overcoats, stepping jauntily
      up the steps of Clubs; working folk loitered; and women—those
      women who at that time of night are solitary—solitary and moving
      eastward in a stream—swung slowly along, with expectation in
      their gait, dreaming of good wine and a good supper, or, for an
      unwonted minute, of kisses given for love.

      Those countless figures, going their ways under the lamps and the
      moving sky, had one and all received some restless blessing from
      the stir of spring. And one and all, like those clubmen with
      their opened coats, had shed something of caste, and creed, and
      custom, and by the cock of their hats, the pace of their walk,
      their laughter, or their silence, revealed their common kinship
      under the passionate heavens.

      Bosinney and June entered the theatre in silence, and mounted to
      their seats in the upper boxes. The piece had just begun, and the
      half-darkened house, with its rows of creatures peering all one
      way, resembled a great garden of flowers turning their faces to
      the sun.

      June had never before been in the upper boxes. From the age of
      fifteen she had habitually accompanied her grandfather to the
      stalls, and not common stalls, but the best seats in the house,
      towards the centre of the third row, booked by old Jolyon, at
      Grogan and Boyne’s, on his way home from the City, long before
      the day; carried in his overcoat pocket, together with his
      cigar-case and his old kid gloves, and handed to June to keep
      till the appointed night. And in those stalls—an erect old figure
      with a serene white head, a little figure, strenuous and eager,
      with a red-gold head—they would sit through every kind of play,
      and on the way home old Jolyon would say of the principal actor:
      “Oh, he’s a poor stick! You should have seen little Bobson!”

      She had looked forward to this evening with keen delight; it was
      stolen, chaperone-less, undreamed of at Stanhope Gate, where she
      was supposed to be at Soames’s. She had expected reward for her
      subterfuge, planned for her lover’s sake; she had expected it to
      break up the thick, chilly cloud, and make the relations between
      them which of late had been so puzzling, so tormenting—sunny and
      simple again as they had been before the winter. She had come
      with the intention of saying something definite; and she looked
      at the stage with a furrow between her brows, seeing nothing, her
      hands squeezed together in her lap. A swarm of jealous suspicions
      stung and stung her.

      If Bosinney was conscious of her trouble he made no sign.

      The curtain dropped. The first act had come to an end.

      “It’s awfully hot here!” said the girl; “I should like to go
      out.”

      She was very white, and she knew—for with her nerves thus
      sharpened she saw everything—that he was both uneasy and
      compunctious.

      At the back of the theatre an open balcony hung over the street;
      she took possession of this, and stood leaning there without a
      word, waiting for him to begin.

      At last she could bear it no longer.

      “I want to say something to you, Phil,” she said.

      “Yes?”

      The defensive tone of his voice brought the colour flying to her
      cheek, the words flying to her lips: “You don’t give me a chance
      to be nice to you; you haven’t for ages now!”

      Bosinney stared down at the street. He made no answer....

      June cried passionately: “You know I want to do everything for
      you—that I want to be everything to you....”

      A hum rose from the street, and, piercing it with a sharp “ping,”
      the bell sounded for the raising of the curtain. June did not
      stir. A desperate struggle was going on within her. Should she
      put everything to the proof? Should she challenge directly that
      influence, that attraction which was driving him away from her?
      It was her nature to challenge, and she said: “Phil, take me to
      see the house on Sunday!”

      With a smile quivering and breaking on her lips, and trying, how
      hard, not to show that she was watching, she searched his face,
      saw it waver and hesitate, saw a troubled line come between his
      brows, the blood rush into his face. He answered: “Not Sunday,
      dear; some other day!”

      “Why not Sunday? I shouldn’t be in the way on Sunday.”

      He made an evident effort, and said: “I have an engagement.”

      “You are going to take....”

      His eyes grew angry; he shrugged his shoulders, and answered: “An
      engagement that will prevent my taking you to see the house!”

      June bit her lip till the blood came, and walked back to her seat
      without another word, but she could not help the tears of rage
      rolling down her face. The house had been mercifully darkened for
      a crisis, and no one could see her trouble.

      Yet in this world of Forsytes let no man think himself immune
      from observation.

      In the third row behind, Euphemia, Nicholas’s youngest daughter,
      with her married-sister, Mrs. Tweetyman, were watching.

      They reported at Timothy’s, how they had seen June and her fiancé
      at the theatre.

      “In the stalls?” “No, not in the....” “Oh! in the dress circle,
      of course. That seemed to be quite fashionable nowadays with
      young people!”

      Well—not exactly. In the.... Anyway, _that_ engagement wouldn’t
      last long. They had never seen anyone look so thunder and
      lightningy as that little June! With tears of enjoyment in their
      eyes, they related how she had kicked a man’s hat as she returned
      to her seat in the middle of an act, and how the man had looked.
      Euphemia had a noted, silent laugh, terminating most
      disappointingly in squeaks; and when Mrs. Small, holding up her
      hands, said: “My dear! Kicked a ha-at?” she let out such a number
      of these that she had to be recovered with smelling-salts. As she
      went away she said to Mrs. Tweetyman:

      “Kicked a—ha-at! Oh! I shall die.”

      For “that little June” this evening, that was to have been “her
      treat,” was the most miserable she had ever spent. God knows she
      tried to stifle her pride, her suspicion, her jealousy!

      She parted from Bosinney at old Jolyon’s door without breaking
      down; the feeling that her lover must be conquered was strong
      enough to sustain her till his retiring footsteps brought home
      the true extent of her wretchedness.

      The noiseless “Sankey” let her in. She would have slipped up to
      her own room, but old Jolyon, who had heard her entrance, was in
      the dining-room doorway.

      “Come in and have your milk,” he said. “It’s been kept hot for
      you. You’re very late. Where have you been?”

      June stood at the fireplace, with a foot on the fender and an arm
      on the mantelpiece, as her grandfather had done when he came in
      that night of the opera. She was too near a breakdown to care
      what she told him.

      “We dined at Soames’s.”

      “H’m! the man of property! His wife there and Bosinney?”

      “Yes.”

      Old Jolyon’s glance was fixed on her with the penetrating gaze
      from which it was difficult to hide; but she was not looking at
      him, and when she turned her face, he dropped his scrutiny at
      once. He had seen enough, and too much. He bent down to lift the
      cup of milk for her from the hearth, and, turning away, grumbled:
      “You oughtn’t to stay out so late; it makes you fit for nothing.”

      He was invisible now behind his paper, which he turned with a
      vicious crackle; but when June came up to kiss him, he said:
      “Good-night, my darling,” in a tone so tremulous and unexpected,
      that it was all the girl could do to get out of the room without
      breaking into the fit of sobbing which lasted her well on into
      the night.

      When the door was closed, old Jolyon dropped his paper, and
      stared long and anxiously in front of him.

      “The beggar!” he thought. “I always knew she’d have trouble with
      him!”

      Uneasy doubts and suspicions, the more poignant that he felt
      himself powerless to check or control the march of events, came
      crowding upon him.

      Was the fellow going to jilt her? He longed to go and say to him:
      “Look here, you sir! Are you going to jilt my grand-daughter?”
      But how could he? Knowing little or nothing, he was yet certain,
      with his unerring astuteness, that there was something going on.
      He suspected Bosinney of being too much at Montpellier Square.

      “This fellow,” he thought, “may not be a scamp; his face is not a
      bad one, but he’s a queer fish. I don’t know what to make of him.
      I shall never know what to make of him! They tell me he works
      like a nigger, but I see no good coming of it. He’s unpractical,
      he has no method. When he comes here, he sits as glum as a
      monkey. If I ask him what wine he’ll have, he says: ‘Thanks, any
      wine.’ If I offer him a cigar, he smokes it as if it were a
      twopenny German thing. I never see him looking at June as he
      ought to look at her; and yet, he’s not after her money. If she
      were to make a sign, he’d be off his bargain to-morrow. But she
      won’t—not she! She’ll stick to him! She’s as obstinate as
      fate—she’ll never let go!”

      Sighing deeply, he turned the paper; in its columns, perchance he
      might find consolation.

      And upstairs in her room June sat at her open window, where the
      spring wind came, after its revel across the Park, to cool her
      hot cheeks and burn her heart.




      CHAPTER III DRIVE WITH SWITHIN

      Two lines of a certain song in a certain famous old school’s
      songbook run as follows:

      “How the buttons on his blue frock shone, tra-la-la!
      How he carolled and he sang, like a bird!...”

      Swithin did not exactly carol and sing like a bird, but he felt
      almost like endeavouring to hum a tune, as he stepped out of Hyde
      Park Mansions, and contemplated his horses drawn up before the
      door.

      The afternoon was as balmy as a day in June, and to complete the
      simile of the old song, he had put on a blue frock-coat,
      dispensing with an overcoat, after sending Adolf down three times
      to make sure that there was not the least suspicion of east in
      the wind; and the frock-coat was buttoned so tightly around his
      personable form, that, if the buttons did not shine, they might
      pardonably have done so. Majestic on the pavement he fitted on a
      pair of dog-skin gloves; with his large bell-shaped top hat, and
      his great stature and bulk he looked too primeval for a Forsyte.
      His thick white hair, on which Adolf had bestowed a touch of
      pomatum, exhaled the fragrance of opoponax and cigars—the
      celebrated Swithin brand, for which he paid one hundred and forty
      shillings the hundred, and of which old Jolyon had unkindly said,
      he wouldn’t smoke them as a gift; they wanted the stomach of a
      horse!

      “Adolf!”

      “Sare!”

      “The new plaid rug!”

      He would never teach that fellow to look smart; and Mrs. Soames
      he felt sure, had an eye!

      “The phaeton hood down; I am going—to—drive—a—lady!”

      A pretty woman would want to show off her frock; and well—he was
      going to drive a lady! It was like a new beginning to the good
      old days.

      Ages since he had driven a woman! The last time, if he
      remembered, it had been Juley; the poor old soul had been as
      nervous as a cat the whole time, and so put him out of patience
      that, as he dropped her in the Bayswater Road, he had said: “Well
      I’m d——d if I ever drive you again!” And he never had, not he!

      Going up to his horses’ heads, he examined their bits; not that
      he knew anything about bits—he didn’t pay his coachman sixty
      pounds a year to do his work for him, that had never been his
      principle. Indeed, his reputation as a horsey man rested mainly
      on the fact that once, on Derby Day, he had been welshed by some
      thimble-riggers. But someone at the Club, after seeing him drive
      his greys up to the door—he always drove grey horses, you got
      more style for the money, some thought—had called him
      “Four-in-hand Forsyte.” The name having reached his ears through
      that fellow Nicholas Treffry, old Jolyon’s dead partner, the
      great driving man notorious for more carriage accidents than any
      man in the kingdom—Swithin had ever after conceived it right to
      act up to it. The name had taken his fancy, not because he had
      ever driven four-in-hand, or was ever likely to, but because of
      something distinguished in the sound. Four-in-hand Forsyte! Not
      bad! Born too soon, Swithin had missed his vocation. Coming upon
      London twenty years later, he could not have failed to have
      become a stockbroker, but at the time when he was obliged to
      select, this great profession had not as yet become the chief
      glory of the upper-middle class. He had literally been forced
      into auctioneering.

      Once in the driving seat, with the reins handed to him, and
      blinking over his pale old cheeks in the full sunlight, he took a
      slow look round—Adolf was already up behind; the cockaded groom
      at the horses’ heads stood ready to let go; everything was
      prepared for the signal, and Swithin gave it. The equipage dashed
      forward, and before you could say Jack Robinson, with a rattle
      and flourish drew up at Soames’s door.

      Irene came out at once, and stepped in—he afterward described it
      at Timothy’s—“as light as—er—Taglioni, no fuss about it, no
      wanting this or wanting that;” and above all, Swithin dwelt on
      this, staring at Mrs. Septimus in a way that disconcerted her a
      good deal, “no silly nervousness!” To Aunt Hester he portrayed
      Irene’s hat. “Not one of your great flopping things, sprawling
      about, and catching the dust, that women are so fond of nowadays,
      but a neat little—” he made a circular motion of his hand, “white
      veil—capital taste.”

      “What was it made of?” inquired Aunt Hester, who manifested a
      languid but permanent excitement at any mention of dress.

      “Made of?” returned Swithin; “now how should I know?”

      He sank into silence so profound that Aunt Hester began to be
      afraid he had fallen into a trance. She did not try to rouse him
      herself, it not being her custom.

      “I wish somebody would come,” she thought; “I don’t like the look
      of him!”

      But suddenly Swithin returned to life. “Made of” he wheezed out
      slowly, “what should it be made of?”

      They had not gone four miles before Swithin received the
      impression that Irene liked driving with him. Her face was so
      soft behind that white veil, and her dark eyes shone so in the
      spring light, and whenever he spoke she raised them to him and
      smiled.

      On Saturday morning Soames had found her at her writing-table
      with a note written to Swithin, putting him off. Why did she want
      to put him off? he asked. She might put her own people off when
      she liked, he would not have her putting off _his_ people!

      She had looked at him intently, had torn up the note, and said:
      “Very well!”

      And then she began writing another. He took a casual glance
      presently, and saw that it was addressed to Bosinney.

      “What are you writing to _him_ about?” he asked.

      Irene, looking at him again with that intent look, said quietly:
      “Something he wanted me to do for him!”

      “Humph!” said Soames,—“Commissions!”

      “You’ll have your work cut out if you begin that sort of thing!”
      He said no more.

      Swithin opened his eyes at the mention of Robin Hill; it was a
      long way for his horses, and he always dined at half-past seven,
      before the rush at the Club began; the new chef took more trouble
      with an early dinner—a lazy rascal!

      He would like to have a look at the house, however. A house
      appealed to any Forsyte, and especially to one who had been an
      auctioneer. After all he said the distance was nothing. When he
      was a younger man he had had rooms at Richmond for many years,
      kept his carriage and pair there, and drove them up and down to
      business every day of his life.

      Four-in-hand Forsyte they called him! His T-cart, his horses had
      been known from Hyde Park Corner to the Star and Garter. The Duke
      of Z.... wanted to get hold of them, would have given him double
      the money, but he had kept them; know a good thing when you have
      it, eh? A look of solemn pride came portentously on his shaven
      square old face, he rolled his head in his stand-up collar, like
      a turkey-cock preening himself.

      She was really—a charming woman! He enlarged upon her frock
      afterwards to Aunt Juley, who held up her hands at his way of
      putting it.

      Fitted her like a skin—tight as a drum; that was how he liked
      ’em, all of a piece, none of your daverdy, scarecrow women! He
      gazed at Mrs. Septimus Small, who took after James—long and thin.

      “There’s style about her,” he went on, “fit for a king! And she’s
      so quiet with it too!”

      “She seems to have made quite a conquest of you, any way,”
      drawled Aunt Hester from her corner.

      Swithin heard extremely well when anybody attacked him.

      “What’s that?” he said. “I know a—pretty—woman when I see one,
      and all I can say is, I don’t see the young man about that’s fit
      for her; but perhaps—you—do, come, perhaps—you-do!”

      “Oh?” murmured Aunt Hester, “ask Juley!”

      Long before they reached Robin Hill, however, the unaccustomed
      airing had made him terribly sleepy; he drove with his eyes
      closed, a life-time of deportment alone keeping his tall and
      bulky form from falling askew.

      Bosinney, who was watching, came out to meet them, and all three
      entered the house together; Swithin in front making play with a
      stout gold-mounted Malacca cane, put into his hand by Adolf, for
      his knees were feeling the effects of their long stay in the same
      position. He had assumed his fur coat, to guard against the
      draughts of the unfinished house.

      The staircase—he said—was handsome! the baronial style! They
      would want some statuary about! He came to a standstill between
      the columns of the doorway into the inner court, and held out his
      cane inquiringly.

      What was this to be—this vestibule, or whatever they called it?
      But gazing at the skylight, inspiration came to him.

      “Ah! the billiard-room!”

      When told it was to be a tiled court with plants in the centre,
      he turned to Irene:

      “Waste this on plants? You take my advice and have a billiard
      table here!”

      Irene smiled. She had lifted her veil, banding it like a nun’s
      coif across her forehead, and the smile of her dark eyes below
      this seemed to Swithin more charming than ever. He nodded. She
      would take his advice he saw.

      He had little to say of the drawing or dining-rooms, which he
      described as “spacious”; but fell into such raptures as he
      permitted to a man of his dignity, in the wine-cellar, to which
      he descended by stone steps, Bosinney going first with a light.

      “You’ll have room here,” he said, “for six or seven hundred
      dozen—a very pooty little cellar!”

      Bosinney having expressed the wish to show them the house from
      the copse below, Swithin came to a stop.

      “There’s a fine view from here,” he remarked; “you haven’t such a
      thing as a chair?”

      A chair was brought him from Bosinney’s tent.

      “You go down,” he said blandly; “you two! I’ll sit here and look
      at the view.”

      He sat down by the oak tree, in the sun; square and upright, with
      one hand stretched out, resting on the nob of his cane, the other
      planted on his knee; his fur coat thrown open, his hat, roofing
      with its flat top the pale square of his face; his stare, very
      blank, fixed on the landscape.

      He nodded to them as they went off down through the fields. He
      was, indeed, not sorry to be left thus for a quiet moment of
      reflection. The air was balmy, not too much heat in the sun; the
      prospect a fine one, a remarka.... His head fell a little to one
      side; he jerked it up and thought: Odd! He—ah! They were waving
      to him from the bottom! He put up his hand, and moved it more
      than once. They were active—the prospect was remar.... His head
      fell to the left, he jerked it up at once; it fell to the right.
      It remained there; he was asleep.

      And asleep, a sentinel on the—top of the rise, he appeared to
      rule over this prospect—remarkable—like some image blocked out by
      the special artist, of primeval Forsytes in pagan days, to record
      the domination of mind over matter!

      And all the unnumbered generations of his yeoman ancestors, wont
      of a Sunday to stand akimbo surveying their little plots of land,
      their grey unmoving eyes hiding their instinct with its hidden
      roots of violence, their instinct for possession to the exclusion
      of all the world—all these unnumbered generations seemed to sit
      there with him on the top of the rise.

      But from him, thus slumbering, his jealous Forsyte spirit
      travelled far, into God-knows-what jungle of fancies; with those
      two young people, to see what they were doing down there in the
      copse—in the copse where the spring was running riot with the
      scent of sap and bursting buds, the song of birds innumerable, a
      carpet of bluebells and sweet growing things, and the sun caught
      like gold in the tops of the trees; to see what they were doing,
      walking along there so close together on the path that was too
      narrow; walking along there so close that they were always
      touching; to watch Irene’s eyes, like dark thieves, stealing the
      heart out of the spring. And a great unseen chaperon, his spirit
      was there, stopping with them to look at the little furry corpse
      of a mole, not dead an hour, with his mushroom-and-silver coat
      untouched by the rain or dew; watching over Irene’s bent head,
      and the soft look of her pitying eyes; and over that young man’s
      head, gazing at her so hard, so strangely. Walking on with them,
      too, across the open space where a wood-cutter had been at work,
      where the bluebells were trampled down, and a trunk had swayed
      and staggered down from its gashed stump. Climbing it with them,
      over, and on to the very edge of the copse, whence there
      stretched an undiscovered country, from far away in which came
      the sounds, “Cuckoo-cuckoo!”

      Silent, standing with them there, and uneasy at their silence!
      Very queer, very strange!

      Then back again, as though guilty, through the wood—back to the
      cutting, still silent, amongst the songs of birds that never
      ceased, and the wild scent—hum! what was it—like that herb they
      put in—back to the log across the path....

      And then unseen, uneasy, flapping above them, trying to make
      noises, his Forsyte spirit watched her balanced on the log, her
      pretty figure swaying, smiling down at that young man gazing up
      with such strange, shining eyes, slipping now—a—ah! falling,
      o—oh! sliding—down his breast; her soft, warm body clutched, her
      head bent back from his lips; his kiss; her recoil; his cry: “You
      must know—I love you!” Must know—indeed, a pretty...? Love! Hah!

      Swithin awoke; virtue had gone out of him. He had a taste in his
      mouth. Where was he?

      Damme! He had been asleep!

      He had dreamed something about a new soup, with a taste of mint
      in it.

      Those young people—where had they got to? His left leg had pins
      and needles.

      “Adolf!” The rascal was not there; the rascal was asleep
      somewhere.

      He stood up, tall, square, bulky in his fur, looking anxiously
      down over the fields, and presently he saw them coming.

      Irene was in front; that young fellow—what had they nicknamed
      him—“The Buccaneer?” looked precious hangdog there behind her;
      had got a flea in his ear, he shouldn’t wonder. Serve him right,
      taking her down all that way to look at the house! The proper
      place to look at a house from was the lawn.

      They saw him. He extended his arm, and moved it spasmodically to
      encourage them. But they had stopped. What were they standing
      there for, talking—talking? They came on again. She had been
      giving him a rub, he had not the least doubt of it, and no
      wonder, over a house like that—a great ugly thing, not the sort
      of house he was accustomed to.

      He looked intently at their faces, with his pale, immovable
      stare. That young man looked very queer!

      “You’ll never make anything of this!” he said tartly, pointing at
      the mansion;—“too newfangled!”

      Bosinney gazed at him as though he had not heard; and Swithin
      afterwards described him to Aunt Hester as “an extravagant sort
      of fellow very odd way of looking at you—a bumpy beggar!”

      What gave rise to this sudden piece of psychology he did not
      state; possibly Bosinney’s prominent forehead and cheekbones and
      chin, or something hungry in his face, which quarrelled with
      Swithin’s conception of the calm satiety that should characterize
      the perfect gentleman.

      He brightened up at the mention of tea. He had a contempt for
      tea—his brother Jolyon had been in tea; made a lot of money by
      it—but he was so thirsty, and had such a taste in his mouth, that
      he was prepared to drink anything. He longed to inform Irene of
      the taste in his mouth—she was so sympathetic—but it would not be
      a distinguished thing to do; he rolled his tongue round, and
      faintly smacked it against his palate.

      In a far corner of the tent Adolf was bending his cat-like
      moustaches over a kettle. He left it at once to draw the cork of
      a pint-bottle of champagne. Swithin smiled, and, nodding at
      Bosinney, said: “Why, you’re quite a Monte Cristo!” This
      celebrated novel—one of the half-dozen he had read—had produced
      an extraordinary impression on his mind.

      Taking his glass from the table, he held it away from him to
      scrutinize the colour; thirsty as he was, it was not likely that
      he was going to drink trash! Then, placing it to his lips, he
      took a sip.

      “A very nice wine,” he said at last, passing it before his nose;
      “not the equal of my Heidsieck!”

      It was at this moment that the idea came to him which he
      afterwards imparted at Timothy’s in this nutshell: “I shouldn’t
      wonder a bit if that architect chap were sweet upon Mrs. Soames!”

      And from this moment his pale, round eyes never ceased to bulge
      with the interest of his discovery.

      “The fellow,” he said to Mrs. Septimus, “follows her about with
      his eyes like a dog—the bumpy beggar! I don’t wonder at it—she’s
      a very charming woman, and, I should say, the pink of
      discretion!” A vague consciousness of perfume caging about Irene,
      like that from a flower with half-closed petals and a passionate
      heart, moved him to the creation of this image. “But I wasn’t
      sure of it,” he said, “till I saw him pick up her handkerchief.”

      Mrs. Small’s eyes boiled with excitement.

      “And did he give it her back?” she asked.

      “Give it back?” said Swithin: “I saw him slobber on it when he
      thought I wasn’t looking!”

      Mrs. Small gasped—too interested to speak.

      “But _she_ gave him no encouragement,” went on Swithin; he
      stopped, and stared for a minute or two in the way that alarmed
      Aunt Hester so—he had suddenly recollected that, as they were
      starting back in the phaeton, she had given Bosinney her hand a
      second time, and let it stay there too.... He had touched his
      horses smartly with the whip, anxious to get her all to himself.
      But she had looked back, and she had not answered his first
      question; neither had he been able to see her face—she had kept
      it hanging down.

      There is somewhere a picture, which Swithin has not seen, of a
      man sitting on a rock, and by him, immersed in the still, green
      water, a sea-nymph lying on her back, with her hand on her naked
      breast. She has a half-smile on her face—a smile of hopeless
      surrender and of secret joy.

      Seated by Swithin’s side, Irene may have been smiling like that.

      When, warmed by champagne, he had her all to himself, he
      unbosomed himself of his wrongs; of his smothered resentment
      against the new chef at the club; his worry over the house in
      Wigmore Street, where the rascally tenant had gone bankrupt
      through helping his brother-in-law as if charity did not begin at
      home; of his deafness, too, and that pain he sometimes got in his
      right side. She listened, her eyes swimming under their lids. He
      thought she was thinking deeply of his troubles, and pitied
      himself terribly. Yet in his fur coat, with frogs across the
      breast, his top hat aslant, driving this beautiful woman, he had
      never felt more distinguished.

      A coster, however, taking his girl for a Sunday airing, seemed to
      have the same impression about himself. This person had flogged
      his donkey into a gallop alongside, and sat, upright as a
      waxwork, in his shallopy chariot, his chin settled pompously on a
      red handkerchief, like Swithin’s on his full cravat; while his
      girl, with the ends of a fly-blown boa floating out behind, aped
      a woman of fashion. Her swain moved a stick with a ragged bit of
      string dangling from the end, reproducing with strange fidelity
      the circular flourish of Swithin’s whip, and rolled his head at
      his lady with a leer that had a weird likeness to Swithin’s
      primeval stare.

      Though for a time unconscious of the lowly ruffian’s presence,
      Swithin presently took it into his head that he was being guyed.
      He laid his whip-lash across the mares flank. The two chariots,
      however, by some unfortunate fatality continued abreast.
      Swithin’s yellow, puffy face grew red; he raised his whip to lash
      the costermonger, but was saved from so far forgetting his
      dignity by a special intervention of Providence. A carriage
      driving out through a gate forced phaeton and donkey-cart into
      proximity; the wheels grated, the lighter vehicle skidded, and
      was overturned.

      Swithin did not look round. On no account would he have pulled up
      to help the ruffian. Serve him right if he had broken his neck!

      But he could not if he would. The greys had taken alarm. The
      phaeton swung from side to side, and people raised frightened
      faces as they went dashing past. Swithin’s great arms, stretched
      at full length, tugged at the reins. His cheeks were puffed, his
      lips compressed, his swollen face was of a dull, angry red.

      Irene had her hand on the rail, and at every lurch she gripped it
      tightly. Swithin heard her ask:

      “Are we going to have an accident, Uncle Swithin?”

      He gasped out between his pants: “It’s nothing; a—little fresh!”

      “I’ve never been in an accident.”

      “Don’t you move!” He took a look at her. She was smiling,
      perfectly calm. “Sit still,” he repeated. “Never fear, I’ll get
      you home!”

      And in the midst of all his terrible efforts, he was surprised to
      hear her answer in a voice not like her own:

      _“I don’t care if I never get home!”_

      The carriage giving a terrific lurch, Swithin’s exclamation was
      jerked back into his throat. The horses, winded by the rise of a
      hill, now steadied to a trot, and finally stopped of their own
      accord.

      “When”—Swithin described it at Timothy’s—“I pulled ’em up, there
      she was as cool as myself. God bless my soul! she behaved as if
      she didn’t care whether she broke her neck or not! What was it
      she said: ‘I don’t care if I never get home?’ Leaning over the
      handle of his cane, he wheezed out, to Mrs. Small’s terror: “And
      I’m not altogether surprised, with a finickin’ feller like young
      Soames for a husband!”

      It did not occur to him to wonder what Bosinney had done after
      they had left him there alone; whether he had gone wandering
      about like the dog to which Swithin had compared him; wandering
      down to that copse where the spring was still in riot, the cuckoo
      still calling from afar; gone down there with her handkerchief
      pressed to lips, its fragrance mingling with the scent of mint
      and thyme. Gone down there with such a wild, exquisite pain in
      his heart that he could have cried out among the trees. Or what,
      indeed, the fellow had done. In fact, till he came to Timothy’s,
      Swithin had forgotten all about him.




      CHAPTER IV JAMES GOES TO SEE FOR HIMSELF

      Those ignorant of Forsyte ’Change would not, perhaps, foresee all
      the stir made by Irene’s visit to the house.

      After Swithin had related at Timothy’s the full story of his
