been quick and clean, and my head had come off 
properly, I mean, it would have saved me a great deal 
of pain and ridicule. However — ” Nearly Headless 
Nick shook his letter open and read furiously: 

“ ‘We can only accept huntsmen whose heads have 
parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate 
that it would be impossible otherwise for members to 
participate in hunt activities such as Horseback Head- 
Juggling and Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret, 
therefore, that I must inform you that you do not fulfill 
our requirements. With very best wishes, Sir Patrick 
Delaney -Podmore.’ ” 

Fuming, Nearly Headless Nick stuffed the letter away. 

“Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, 
Harry! Most people would think that’s good and 
beheaded, but oh, no, it’s not enough for Sir Properly 
Decapitated-Podmore . ” 

Nearly Headless Nick took several deep breaths and 
then said, in a far calmer tone, “So — what’s 
bothering you? Anything I can do?” 

“No,” said Harry. “Not unless you know where we can 
get seven free Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for 
our match against Sly — ” 

The rest of Harry’s sentence was drowned out by a 
high-pitched mewling from somewhere near his 

Page | 138 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




ankles. He looked down and found himself gazing into 
a pair of lamp-like yellow eyes. It was Mrs. Norris, the 
skeletal gray cat who was used by the caretaker, 

Argus Filch, as a sort of deputy in his endless battle 
against students. 

“You’d better get out of here, Harry,” said Nick 
quickly. “Filch isn’t in a good mood — he’s got the flu 
and some third years accidentally plastered frog 
brains all over the ceiling in dungeon five. He’s been 
cleaning all morning, and if he sees you dripping mud 
all over the place — ” 

“Right,” said Harry, backing away from the accusing 
stare of Mrs. Norris, but not quickly enough. Drawn 
to the spot by the mysterious power that seemed to 
connect him with his foul cat, Argus Filch burst 
suddenly through a tapestry to Harry’s right, 
wheezing and looking wildly about for the rule- 
breaker. There was a thick tartan scarf bound around 
his head, and his nose was unusually purple. 

“Filth!” he shouted, his jowls aquiver, his eyes 
popping alarmingly as he pointed at the muddy 
puddle that had dripped from Harry’s Quidditch 
robes. “Mess and muck everywhere! I’ve had enough 
of it, I tell you! Follow me, Potter!” 

So Harry waved a gloomy good-bye to Nearly Headless 
Nick and followed Filch back downstairs, doubling the 
number of muddy footprints on the floor. 

Harry had never been inside Filch’s office before; it 
was a place most students avoided. The room was 
dingy and windowless, lit by a single oil lamp 
dangling from the low ceiling. A faint smell of fried 
fish lingered about the place. Wooden filing cabinets 
stood around the walls; from their labels, Harry could 
see that they contained details of every pupil Filch 
Page | 139 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




had ever punished. Fred and George Weasley had an 
entire drawer to themselves. A highly polished 
collection of chains and manacles hung on the wall 
behind Filch’s desk. It was common knowledge that 
he was always begging Dumbledore to let him 
suspend students by their ankles from the ceiling. 

Filch grabbed a quill from a pot on his desk and 
began shuffling around looking for parchment. 

“Dung,” he muttered furiously, “great sizzling dragon 
bogies ... frog brains ... rat intestines ... I’ve had 
enough of it ... make an example ... where’s the form 
... yes ...” 

He retrieved a large roll of parchment from his desk 
drawer and stretched it out in front of him, dipping 
his long black quill into the ink pot. 

“ Name ... Harry Potter. Crime ...” 

“It was only a bit of mud!” said Harry. 

“It’s only a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me it’s an 
extra hour scrubbing!” shouted Filch, a drip shivering 
unpleasantly at the end of his bulbous nose. “Crime 
... befouling the castle ... suggested sentence ...” 

Dabbing at his streaming nose, Filch squinted 
unpleasantly at Harry, who waited with bated breath 
for his sentence to fall. 

But as Filch lowered his quill, there was a great 
BANG! on the ceiling of the office, which made the oil 
lamp rattle. 

“PEEVES!” Filch roared, flinging down his quill in a 
transport of rage. “I’ll have you this time, I’ll have 
you!” 

Page | 140 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets- J.K. Rowling 




And without a backward glance at Harry, Filch ran 
flat-footed from the office, Mrs. Norris streaking 
alongside him. 

Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grinning, airborne 
menace who lived to cause havoc and distress. Harry 
didn’t much like Peeves, but couldn’t help feeling 
grateful for his timing. Hopefully, whatever Peeves 
had done (and it sounded as though he’d wrecked 
something very big this time) would distract Filch 
from Harry. 

Thinking that he should probably wait for Filch to 
come back, Harry sank into a moth-eaten chair next 
to the desk. There was only one thing on it apart from 
his half-completed form: a large, glossy, purple 
envelope with silver lettering on the front. With a 
quick glance at the door to check that Filch wasn’t on 
his way back, Harry picked up the envelope and read: 

KWIKSPELL 

A Correspondence Course in Beginners’ Magic 

Intrigued, Harry flicked the envelope open and pulled 
out the sheaf of parchment inside. More curly silver 
writing on the front page said: 

Feel out of step in the world of modern magic? Find 
yourself making excuses not to perform simple spells? 
Ever been taunted for your woeful wandwork? 

There is an answer! 

Kwikspell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick-result, easy- 
learn course. Hundreds of witches and wizards have 
benefited from the Kwikspell method! 



Madam Z. Nettles of Topsham writes: 

Page | 141 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I had no memory for incantations and my potions 
were a family joke! Now, after a Kwikspell course, I am 
the center of attention at parties and friends beg for the 
recipe of my Scintillation Solution!” 

Warlock D. J. Prod of Didsbury says: 

“My wife used to sneer at my feeble charms, but one 
month into your fabulous Kwikspell course and I 
succeeded in turning her into a yak! 

Thank you, Kwikspell!” 

Fascinated, Harry thumbed through the rest of the 
envelope’s contents. Why on earth did Filch want a 
Kwikspell course? Did this mean he wasn’t a proper 
wizard? Harry was just reading “Lesson One: Holding 
Your Wand (Some Useful Tips)” when shuffling 
footsteps outside told him Filch was coming back. 
Stuffing the parchment back into the envelope, Harry 
threw it back onto the desk just as the door opened. 

Filch was looking triumphant. 

“That vanishing cabinet was extremely valuable!” he 
was saying gleefully to Mrs. Norris. “We’ll have Peeves 
out this time, my sweet — ” 

His eyes fell on Harry and then darted to the 
Kwikspell envelope, which, Harry realized too late, 
was lying two feet away from where it had started. 

Filch ’s pasty face went brick red. Harry braced 
himself for a tidal wave of fury. Filch hobbled across 
to his desk, snatched up the envelope, and threw it 
into a drawer. 

“Have you — did you read — ?” he sputtered. 



Page | 142 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” Harry lied quickly. 

Filch ’s knobbly hands were twisting together. 

“If I thought you’d read my private — not that it’s 
mine — for a friend — be that as it may — however — 



Harry was staring at him, alarmed; Filch had never 
looked madder. His eyes were popping, a tic was 
going in one of his pouchy cheeks, and the tartan 
scarf didn’t help. 

“Very well — go — and don’t breathe a word — not 
that — however, if you didn’t read — go now, I have to 
write up Peeves’ report — go — ” 

Amazed at his luck, Harry sped out of the office, up 
the corridor, and back upstairs. To escape from 
Filch ’s office without punishment was probably some 
kind of school record. 

“Harry! Harry! Did it work?” 

Nearly Headless Nick came gliding out of a classroom. 
Behind him, Harry could see the wreckage of a large 
black-and-gold cabinet that appeared to have been 
dropped from a great height. 

“I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filch’s 
office,” said Nick eagerly. “Thought it might distract 
him — ” 



“Was that you?” said Harry gratefully. “Yeah, it 
worked, I didn’t even get detention. Thanks, Nick!” 

They set off up the corridor together. Nearly Headless 
Nick, Harry noticed, was still holding Sir Patrick’s 
rejection letter. 

Page | 143 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I wish there was something I could do for you about 
the Headless Hunt,” Harry said. 



Nearly Headless Nick stopped in his tracks and Harry 
walked right through him. He wished he hadn’t; it 
was like stepping through an icy shower. 

“But there is something you could do for me,” said 
Nick excitedly. “Harry — would I be asking too much 
— but no, you wouldn’t want — ” 

“What is it?” said Harry. 

“Well, this Halloween will be my five hundredth 
deathday,” said Nearly Headless Nick, drawing 
himself up and looking dignified. 

“Oh,” said Harry, not sure whether he should look 
sorry or happy about this. “Right.” 

“I’m holding a party down in one of the roomier 
dungeons. Friends will be coming from all over the 
country. It would be such an honor if you would 
attend. Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger would be most 
welcome, too, of course — but I daresay you’d rather 
go to the school feast?” He watched Harry on 
tenterhooks. 

“No,” said Harry quickly, “I’ll come — ” 

“My dear boy! Harry Potter, at my deathday party! 
And” — he hesitated, looking excited — “do you think 
you could possibly mention to Sir Patrick how very 
frightening and impressive you find me?” 

“Of — of course,” said Harry. 

Nearly Headless Nick beamed at him. 



Page | 144 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“A deathday party?” said Hermione keenly when 
Harry had changed at last and joined her and Ron in 
the common room. “I bet there aren’t many living 
people who can say they’ve been to one of those — it’ll 
be fascinating!” 

“Why would anyone want to celebrate the day they 
died?” said Ron, who was halfway through his Potions 
homework and grumpy. “Sounds dead depressing to 
me....” 

Rain was still lashing the windows, which were now 
inky black, but inside all looked bright and cheerful. 
The firelight glowed over the countless squashy 
armchairs where people sat reading, talking, doing 
homework or, in the case of Fred and George Weasley, 
trying to find out what would happen if you fed a 
Filibuster firework to a salamander. Fred had 
“rescued” the brilliant orange, fire-dwelling lizard 
from a Care of Magical Creatures class and it was 
now smoldering gently on a table surrounded by a 
knot of curious people. 

Harry was at the point of telling Ron and Hermione 
about Filch and the Kwikspell course when the 
salamander suddenly whizzed into the air, emitting 
loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wildly round the 
room. The sight of Percy bellowing himself hoarse at 
Fred and George, the spectacular display of tangerine 
stars showering from the salamander’s mouth, and its 
escape into the fire, with accompanying explosions, 
drove both Filch and the Kwikspell envelope from 
Harry’s mind. 

By the time Halloween arrived, Harry was regretting 
his rash promise to go to the deathday party. The rest 
of the school was happily anticipating their Halloween 
feast; the Great Hall had been decorated with the 
usual live bats, Hagrid’s vast pumpkins had been 
Page | 145 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




carved into lanterns large enough for three men to sit 
in, and there were rumors that Dumbledore had 
booked a troupe of dancing skeletons for the 
entertainment. 

“A promise is a promise,” Hermione reminded Harry 
bossily. “You said you’d go to the deathday party.” 

So at seven o’clock, Harry, Ron, and Hermione walked 
straight past the doorway to the packed Great Hall, 
which was glittering invitingly with gold plates and 
candles, and directed their steps instead toward the 
dungeons. 

The passageway leading to Nearly Headless Nick’s 
party had been lined with candles, too, though the 
effect was far from cheerful: These were long, thin, 
jet-black tapers, all burning bright blue, casting a 
dim, ghostly light even over their own living faces. The 
temperature dropped with every step they took. As 
Harry shivered and drew his robes tightly around 
him, he heard what sounded like a thousand 
fingernails scraping an enormous blackboard. 

“Is that supposed to be music?” Ron whispered. They 
turned a corner and saw Nearly Headless Nick 
standing at a doorway hung with black velvet drapes. 

“My dear friends,” he said mournfully. “Welcome, 
welcome ... so pleased you could come. ...” 

He swept off his plumed hat and bowed them inside. 

It was an incredible sight. The dungeon was full of 
hundreds of pearly-white, translucent people, mostly 
drifting around a crowded dance floor, waltzing to the 
dreadful, quavering sound of thirty musical saws, 
played by an orchestra on a raised, black-draped 
platform. A chandelier overhead blazed midnight-blue 
Page | 146 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




with a thousand more black candles. Their breath 
rose in a mist before them; it was like stepping into a 
freezer. 

“Shall we have a look around?” Harry suggested, 
wanting to warm up his feet. 

“Careful not to walk through anyone,” said Ron 
nervously, and they set off around the edge of the 
dance floor. They passed a group of gloomy nuns, a 
ragged man wearing chains, and the Fat Friar, a 
cheerful Hufflepuff ghost, who was talking to a knight 
with an arrow sticking out of his forehead. Harry 
wasn’t surprised to see that the Bloody Baron, a 
gaunt, staring Slytherin ghost covered in silver 
bloodstains, was being given a wide berth by the 
other ghosts. 

“Oh, no,” said Hermione, stopping abruptly. “Turn 
back, turn back, I don’t want to talk to Moaning 
Myrtle — ” 

“Who?” said Harry as they backtracked quickly. 

“She haunts one of the toilets in the girls’ bathroom 
on the first floor,” said Hermione. 

“She haunts a toilet ?” 

“Yes. It’s been out-of-order all year because she keeps 
having tantrums and flooding the place. I never went 
in there anyway if I could avoid it; it’s awful trying to 
have a pee with her wailing at you — ” 

“Look, food!” said Ron. 

On the other side of the dungeon was a long table, 
also covered in black velvet. They approached it 
eagerly but next moment had stopped in their tracks, 

Page | 147 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




horrified. The smell was quite disgusting. Large, 
rotten fish were laid on handsome silver platters; 
cakes, burned charcoal-black, were heaped on 
salvers; there was a great maggoty haggis, a slab of 
cheese covered in furry green mold and, in pride of 
place, an enormous gray cake in the shape of a 
tombstone, with tar-like icing forming the words, 

SIR NICHOLAS DE MIMSY-PORPINGTON 
DIED 3 1 ST OCTOBER, 1 492 

Harry watched, amazed, as a portly ghost approached 
the table, crouched low, and walked through it, his 
mouth held wide so that it passed through one of the 
stinking salmon. 

“Can you taste it if you walk through it?” Harry asked 
him. 

“Almost,” said the ghost sadly, and he drifted away. 

“I expect they’ve let it rot to give it a stronger flavor,” 
said Hermione knowledgeably, pinching her nose and 
leaning closer to look at the putrid haggis. 

“Can we move? I feel sick,” said Ron. 

They had barely turned around, however, when a 
little man swooped suddenly from under the table and 
came to a halt in midair before them. 

“Hello, Peeves,” said Harry cautiously. 

Unlike the ghosts around them, Peeves the Poltergeist 
was the very reverse of pale and transparent. He was 
wearing a bright orange party hat, a revolving bow tie, 
and a broad grin on his wide, wicked face. 



Page | 148 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Nibbles?” he said sweetly, offering them a bowl of 
peanuts covered in fungus. 

“No thanks,” said Hermione. 

“Heard you talking about poor Myrtle,” said Peeves, 
his eyes dancing. “Rude you was about poor Myrtle.” 
He took a deep breath and bellowed, “OY! MYRTLE!” 

“Oh, no, Peeves, don’t tell her what I said, she’ll be 
really upset,” Hermione whispered frantically. “I didn’t 
mean it, I don’t mind her — er, hello, Myrtle.” 

The squat ghost of a girl had glided over. She had the 
glummest face Harry had ever seen, half-hidden 
behind lank hair and thick, pearly spectacles. 

“What?” she said sulkily. 

“How are you, Myrtle?” said Hermione in a falsely 
bright voice. “It’s nice to see you out of the toilet.” 

Myrtle sniffed. 

“Miss Granger was just talking about you — ” said 
Peeves slyly in Myrtle’s ear. 

“Just saying — saying — how nice you look tonight,” 
said Hermione, glaring at Peeves. 

Myrtle eyed Hermione suspiciously. 

“You’re making fun of me,” she said, silver tears 
welling rapidly in her small, see-through eyes. 

“No — honestly — didn’t I just say how nice Myrtle’s 
looking?” said Hermione, nudging Harry and Ron 
painfully in the ribs. 



Page | 149 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, yeah — ” 



“She did — ” 

“Don’t lie to me,” Myrtle gasped, tears now flooding 
down her face, while Peeves chuckled happily over her 
shoulder. “D’you think I don’t know what people call 
me behind my back? Fat Myrtle! Ugly Myrtle! 
Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle!” 

“You’ve forgotten pimply,” Peeves hissed in her ear. 

Moaning Myrtle burst into anguished sobs and fled 
from the dungeon. Peeves shot after her, pelting her 
with moldy peanuts, yelling, “Pimply\ Pimplyl” 

“Oh, dear,” said Hermione sadly. 

Nearly Headless Nick now drifted toward them 
through the crowd. 

“Enjoying yourselves?” 

“Oh, yes,” they lied. 

“Not a bad turnout,” said Nearly Headless Nick 
proudly. “The Wailing Widow came all the way up 
from Kent. ... It’s nearly time for my speech, I’d better 
go and warn the orchestra. ...” 

The orchestra, however, stopped playing at that very 
moment. They, and everyone else in the dungeon, fell 
silent, looking around in excitement, as a hunting 
horn sounded. 

“Oh, here we go,” said Nearly Headless Nick bitterly. 

Through the dungeon wall burst a dozen ghost 
horses, each ridden by a headless horseman. The 

Page | 150 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




assembly clapped wildly; Harry started to clap, too, 
but stopped quickly at the sight of Nick’s face. 

The horses galloped into the middle of the dance floor 
and halted, rearing and plunging. At the front of the 
pack was a large ghost who held his bearded head 
under his arm, from which position he was blowing 
the horn. The ghost leapt down, lifted his head high 
in the air so he could see over the crowd (everyone 
laughed), and strode over to Nearly Headless Nick, 
squashing his head back onto his neck. 

“Nick!” he roared. “How are you? Head still hanging in 
there?” 

He gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nearly Headless 
Nick on the shoulder. 

“Welcome, Patrick,” said Nick stiffly. 

“Live ’uns!” said Sir Patrick, spotting Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione and giving a huge, fake jump of 
astonishment, so that his head fell off again (the 
crowd howled with laughter). 

“Very amusing,” said Nearly Headless Nick darkly. 

“Don’t mind Nick!” shouted Sir Patrick’s head from 
the floor. “Still upset we won’t let him join the Hunt! 
But I mean to say — look at the fellow — ” 

“I think,” said Harry hurriedly, at a meaningful look 
from Nick, “Nick’s very — frightening and — er — ” 

“Ha!” yelled Sir Patrick’s head. “Bet he asked you to 
say that!” 

“If I could have everyone’s attention, it’s time for my 
speech!” said Nearly Headless Nick loudly, striding 

Page | 151 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




toward the podium and climbing into an icy blue 
spotlight. 

“My late lamented lords, ladies, and gentlemen, it is 
my great sorrow ...” 

But nobody heard much more. Sir Patrick and the 
rest of the Headless Hunt had just started a game of 
Head Hockey and the crowd were turning to watch. 
Nearly Headless Nick tried vainly to recapture his 
audience, but gave up as Sir Patrick’s head went 
sailing past him to loud cheers. 

Harry was very cold by now, not to mention hungry. 

“I can’t stand much more of this,” Ron muttered, his 
teeth chattering, as the orchestra ground back into 
action and the ghosts swept back onto the dance 
floor. 

“Let’s go,” Harry agreed. 

They backed toward the door, nodding and beaming 
at anyone who looked at them, and a minute later 
were hurrying back up the passageway full of black 
candles. 

“Pudding might not be finished yet,” said Ron 
hopefully, leading the way toward the steps to the 
entrance hall. 

And then Harry heard it. 

"... rip ... tear ... kill ...” 

It was the same voice, the same cold, murderous 
voice he had heard in Lockhart’s office. 



Page | 152 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




He stumbled to a halt, clutching at the stone wall, 
listening with all his might, looking around, squinting 
up and down the dimly lit passageway. 

“Harry, what’re you — ?” 

“It’s that voice again — shut up a minute — ” 

soo hungry ... for so long ...” 

“Listen!” said Harry urgently, and Ron and Hermione 
froze, watching him. 

“... kill ... time to kill ...” 

The voice was growing fainter. Harry was sure it was 
moving away — moving upward. A mixture of fear and 
excitement gripped him as he stared at the dark 
ceiling; how could it be moving upward? Was it a 
phantom, to whom stone ceilings didn’t matter? 

“This way,” he shouted, and he began to run, up the 
stairs, into the entrance hall. It was no good hoping to 
hear anything here, the babble of talk from the 
Halloween feast was echoing out of the Great Hall. 
Harry sprinted up the marble staircase to the first 
floor, Ron and Hermione clattering behind him. 

“Harry, what’re we — ” 

“SHH!” 

Harry strained his ears. Distantly, from the floor 
above, and growing fainter still, he heard the voice: 
“...I smell blood. ...I SMELL BLOOD\” 

His stomach lurched — 



Page | 153 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s going to kill someone!” he shouted, and ignoring 
Ron’s and Hermione’s bewildered faces, he ran up the 
next flight of steps three at a time, trying to listen 
over his own pounding footsteps — 

Harry hurtled around the whole of the second floor, 
Ron and Hermione panting behind him, not stopping 
until they turned a corner into the last, deserted 
passage. 

“Harry, what was that all about?” said Ron, wiping 
sweat off his face. “I couldn’t hear anything. ...” 

But Hermione gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the 
corridor. 

“Loo/c!” 

Something was shining on the wall ahead. They 
approached slowly, squinting through the darkness. 
Foot-high words had been daubed on the wall 
between two windows, shimmering in the light cast by 
the flaming torches. 

THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED. 
ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE. 

“What’s that thing — hanging underneath?” said Ron, 
a slight quiver in his voice. 

As they edged nearer, Harry almost slipped — there 
was a large puddle of water on the floor; Ron and 
Hermione grabbed him, and they inched toward the 
message, eyes fixed on a dark shadow beneath it. All 
three of them realized what it was at once, and leapt 
backward with a splash. 



Page | 154 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Norris, the caretaker’s cat, was hanging by her 
tail from the torch bracket. She was stiff as a board, 
her eyes wide and staring. 

For a few seconds, they didn’t move. Then Ron said, 
“Let’s get out of here.” 

“Shouldn’t we try and help — ” Harry began 
awkwardly. 

“Trust me,” said Ron. “We don’t want to be found 
here.” 

But it was too late. A rumble, as though of distant 
thunder, told them that the feast had just ended. 
From either end of the corridor where they stood 
came the sound of hundreds of feet climbing the 
stairs, and the loud, happy talk of well-fed people; 
next moment, students were crashing into the 
passage from both ends. 

The chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as 
the people in front spotted the hanging cat. Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione stood alone, in the middle of the 
corridor, as silence fell among the mass of students 
pressing forward to see the grisly sight. 

Then someone shouted through the quiet. 

“Enemies of the Heir, beware! You’ll be next, 
Mudbloods!” 

It was Draco Malfoy. He had pushed to the front of 
the crowd, his cold eyes alive, his usually bloodless 
face flushed, as he grinned at the sight of the 
hanging, immobile cat. 



Page | 155 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




9 




THE WRITING ON THE WALL 

“What’s going on here? What’s going on?” 

Attracted no doubt by Malfoy’s shout, Argus Filch 
came shouldering his way through the crowd. Then 
he saw Mrs. Norris and fell back, clutching his face in 
horror. 

“My cat! My cat! What’s happened to Mrs. Norris?” he 
shrieked. 

And his popping eyes fell on Harry. 

“You!” he screeched. “You! You’ve murdered my cat! 
You’ve killed her! I’ll kill you! I’ll — ” 

“Argus'.” 

Dumbledore had arrived on the scene, followed by a 
number of other teachers. In seconds, he had swept 
past Harry, Ron, and Hermione and detached Mrs. 
Norris from the torch bracket. 



Page | 156 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



“Come with me, Argus,” he said to Filch. “You, too, 

Mr. Potter, Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger.” 

Lockhart stepped forward eagerly. 

“My office is nearest, Headmaster — just upstairs — 
please feel free — ” 

“Thank you, Gilderoy,” said Dumbledore. 

The silent crowd parted to let them pass. Lockhart, 
looking excited and important, hurried after 
Dumbledore; so did Professors McGonagall and 
Snape. 

As they entered Lockhart’s darkened office there was 
a flurry of movement across the walls; Harry saw 
several of the Lockharts in the pictures dodging out of 
sight, their hair in rollers. The real Lockhart lit the 
candles on his desk and stood back. Dumbledore laid 
Mrs. Norris on the polished surface and began to 
examine her. Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged 
tense looks and sank into chairs outside the pool of 
candlelight, watching. 

The tip of Dumbledore ’s long, crooked nose was 
barely an inch from Mrs. Norris’s fur. He was looking 
at her closely through his half-moon spectacles, his 
long fingers gently prodding and poking. Professor 
McGonagall was bent almost as close, her eyes 
narrowed. Snape loomed behind them, half in 
shadow, wearing a most peculiar expression: It was 
as though he was trying hard not to smile. And 
Lockhart was hovering around all of them, making 
suggestions. 

“It was definitely a curse that killed her — probably 
the Trans-mogrifian Torture — I’ve seen it used many 



Page | 157 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




times, so unlucky I wasn’t there, I know the very 
countercurse that would have saved her. ...” 

Lockhart’s comments were punctuated by Filch ’s dry, 
racking sobs. He was slumped in a chair by the desk, 
unable to look at Mrs. Norris, his face in his hands. 
Much as he detested Filch, Harry couldn’t help feeling 
a bit sorry for him, though not nearly as sorry as he 
felt for himself. If Dumbledore believed Filch, he 
would be expelled for sure. 

Dumbledore was now muttering strange words under 
his breath and tapping Mrs. Norris with his wand but 
nothing happened: She continued to look as though 
she had been recently stuffed. 

"... I remember something very similar happening in 
Ouagadougou,” said Lockhart, “a series of attacks, 
the full story’s in my autobiography, I was able to 
provide the townsfolk with various amulets, which 
cleared the matter up at once. ...” 

The photographs of Lockhart on the walls were all 
nodding in agreement as he talked. One of them had 
forgotten to remove his hair net. 

At last Dumbledore straightened up. 

“She’s not dead, Argus,” he said softly. 

Lockhart stopped abruptly in the middle of counting 
the number of murders he had prevented. 

“Not dead?” choked Filch, looking through his fingers 
at Mrs. Norris. “But why’s she all — all stiff and 
frozen?” 



Page | 158 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“She has been Petrified,” said Dumbledore (“Ah! I 
thought so!” said Lockhart). “But how, I cannot say. 



“Ask him\” shrieked Filch, turning his blotched and 
tearstained face to Harry. 

“No second year could have done this,” said 
Dumbledore firmly. “It would take Dark Magic of the 
most advanced — ” 

“He did it, he did it!” Filch spat, his pouchy face 
purpling. “You saw what he wrote on the wall! He 
found — in my office — he knows I’m a — I’m a — ” 
Filch ’s face worked horribly. “He knows I’m a Squib!” 
he finished. 

“I never touched Mrs. Norris!” Harry said loudly, 
uncomfortably aware of everyone looking at him, 
including all the Lockharts on the walls. “And I don’t 
even know what a Squib is.” 

“Rubbish!” snarled Filch. “He saw my Kwikspell 
letter!” 

“If I might speak, Headmaster,” said Snape from the 
shadows, and Harry’s sense of foreboding increased; 
he was sure nothing Snape had to say was going to 
do him any good. 

“Potter and his friends may have simply been in the 
wrong place at the wrong time,” he said, a slight sneer 
curling his mouth as though he doubted it. “But we 
do have a set of suspicious circumstances here. Why 
was he in the upstairs corridor at all? Why wasn’t he 
at the Halloween feast?” 



Page | 159 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Ron and Hermione all launched into an 
explanation about the deathday party. "... there were 
hundreds of ghosts, they’ll tell you we were there — ” 

“But why not join the feast afterward?” said Snape, 
his black eyes glittering in the candlelight. “Why go 
up to that corridor?” 

Ron and Hermione looked at Harry. 

“Because — because — ” Harry said, his heart 
thumping very fast; something told him it would 
sound very far-fetched if he told them he had been led 
there by a bodiless voice no one but he could hear, 
“because we were tired and wanted to go to bed,” he 
said. 

“Without any supper?” said Snape, a triumphant 
smile flickering across his gaunt face. “I didn’t think 
