
Page | 516Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s good, isn’t it?” said Luna happily. “I wanted to 
have it chewing up a serpent to represent Slytherin, 
you know, but there wasn’t time. Anyway ... good 
luck, Ronald!” 

She drifted away. They had not quite recovered from 
the shock of Luna’s hat before Angelina came 
hurrying toward them, accompanied by Katie and 
Alicia, whose eyebrows had mercifully been returned 
to normal by Madam Pomfrey. 

“When you’re ready,” she said, “we’re going to go 
straight down to the pitch, check out conditions and 
change.” 

“We’ll be there in a bit,” Harry assured her. “Ron’s 
just got to have some breakfast.” 

It became clear after ten minutes, however, that Ron 
was not capable of eating anything more and Harry 
thought it best to get him down to the changing 
rooms. As they rose from the table, Hermione got up 
too, and taking Harry’s arm, she drew him to one 
side. 

“Don’t let Ron see what’s on those Slytherins’ 
badges,” she whispered urgently. 

Harry looked questioningly at her, but she shook her 
head warningly; Ron had just ambled over to them, 
looking lost and desperate. 

“Good luck, Ron,” said Hermione, standing on tiptoe 
and kissing him on the cheek. “And you, Harry — ” 

Ron seemed to come to himself slightly as they 
walked back across the Great Hall. He touched the 
spot on his face where Hermione had kissed him, 
looking puzzled, as though he was not quite sure 

Page | 517Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what had just happened. He seemed too distracted to 
notice much around him, but Harry cast a curious 
glance at the crown-shaped badges as they passed 
the Slytherin table, and this time he made out the 
words etched onto them: 

WEASLEY 

IS OUR KING 

With an unpleasant feeling that this could mean 
nothing good, he hurried Ron across the entrance 
hall, down the stone steps, and out into the icy air. 

The frosty grass crunched under their feet as they 
hurried down the sloping lawns toward the stadium. 
There was no wind at all and the sky was a uniform 
pearly white, which meant that visibility would be 
good without the drawback of direct sunlight in the 
eyes. Harry pointed out these encouraging factors to 
Ron as they walked, but he was not sure that Ron 
was listening. 

Angelina had changed already and was talking to the 
rest of the team when they entered. Harry and Ron 
pulled on their robes (Ron attempted to do his up 
back-to-front for several minutes before Alicia took 
pity on him and went to help) and then sat down to 
listen to the pre-match talk while the babble of voices 
outside grew steadily louder as the crowd came 
pouring out of the castle toward the pitch. 

“Okay, Eve only just found out the final lineup for 
Slytherin,” said Angelina, consulting a piece of 
parchment. “Last year’s Beaters, Derrick and Bole, 
have left now, but it looks as though Montague’s 
replaced them with the usual gorillas, rather than 
anyone who can fly particularly well. They’re two 



Page | 518Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




blokes called Crabbe and Goyle, I don’t know much 
about them — ” 

“We do,” said Harry and Ron together. 

“Well, they don’t look bright enough to tell one end of 
a broom from another,” said Angelina, pocketing her 
parchment, “but then I was always surprised Derrick 
and Bole managed to find their way onto the pitch 
without signposts.” 

“Crabbe and Goyle are in the same mold,” Harry 
assured her. 

They could hear hundreds of footsteps mounting the 
banked benches of the spectators’ stands now. Some 
people were singing, though Harry could not make 
out the words. He was starting to feel nervous, but he 
knew his butterflies were as nothing to Ron’s, who 
was clutching his stomach and staring straight ahead 
again, his jaw set and his complexion pale gray. 

“It’s time,” said Angelina in a hushed voice, looking at 
her watch. “C’mon everyone ... good luck.” 

The team rose, shouldered their brooms, and 
marched in single file out of the changing room and 
into the dazzling sunlight. A roar of sound greeted 
them in which Harry could still hear singing, though 
it was muffled by the cheers and whistles. 

The Slytherin team were standing waiting for them. 
They too were wearing those silver crown-shaped 
badges. The new captain, Montague, was built along 
the same lines as Dudley, with massive forearms like 
hairy hams. Behind him lurked Crabbe and Goyle, 
almost as large, blinking stupidly in the sunlight, 
swinging their new Beaters’ bats. Malfoy stood to one 
side, the sunlight gleaming on his white-blond head. 
Page | 519Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He caught Harry’s eye and smirked, tapping the 
crown-shaped badge on his chest. 

“Captains shake hands,” ordered the umpire, Madam 
Hooch, as Angelina and Montague reached each 
other. Harry could tell that Montague was trying to 
crush Angelina’s fingers, though she did not wince. 
“Mount your brooms...” 

Madam Hooch placed her whistle in her mouth and 
blew. 

The balls were released and the fourteen players shot 
upward; out of the corner of his eye Harry saw Ron 
streak off toward the goal hoops. He zoomed higher, 
dodging a Bludger, and set off on a wide lap of the 
pitch, gazing around for a glint of gold; on the other 
side of the stadium, Draco Malfoy was doing exactly 
the same. 

“And it’s Johnson, Johnson with the Quaffle, what a 
player that girl is, I’ve been saying it for years but she 
still won’t go out with me — ” 

“JORDAN!” yelled Professor McGonagall. 

“Just a fun fact, Professor, adds a bit of interest — 
and she’s ducked Warrington, she’s passed 
Montague, she’s — ouch — been hit from behind by a 
Bludger from Crabbe... Montague catches the Quaffle, 
Montague heading back up the pitch and — nice 
Bludger there from George Weasley, that’s a Bludger 
to the head for Montague, he drops the Quaffle, 
caught by Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffindor reverse 
passes to Alicia Spinnet and Spinnet’s away — ” 

Lee Jordan’s commentary rang through the stadium 
and Harry listened as hard as he could through the 



Page | 520Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wind whistling in his ears and the din of the crowd, 
all yelling and booing and singing — 

“ — dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger — close call, 
Alicia — and the crowd are loving this, just listen to 
them, what’s that they’re singing?” 

And as Lee paused to listen the song rose loud and 
clear from the sea of green and silver in the Slytherin 
section of the stands: 

Weasley cannot save a thing, 

He cannot block a single ring, 

That’s why Slytherins all sing: 

Weasley is our King. 

Weasley was born in a bin, 

He always lets the Quaffle in, 

Weasley will make sure we win, 

Weasley is our King. 

“ — and Alicia passes back to Angelina!” Lee shouted, 
and as Harry swerved, his insides boiling at what he 
had just heard, he knew Lee was trying to drown out 
the sound of the singing. “Come on now, Angelina — 
looks like she’s got just the Keeper to beat! — SHE 
SHOOTS — SHE — aaaah ...” 

Bletchley, the Slytherin Keeper, had saved the goal; 
he threw the Quaffle to Warrington who sped off with 
it, zigzagging in between Alicia and Katie; the singing 
from below grew louder and louder as he drew nearer 
and nearer Ron — 

Weasley is our King, 

Weasley is our King, 

He always lets the Quaffle in, 

Weasley is our King. 



Page | 521Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could not help himself: Abandoning his search 
for the Snitch, he turned his Firebolt toward Ron, a 
lone figure at the far end of the pitch, hovering before 
the three goal hoops while the massive Warrington 
pelted toward him ... 

“ — and it’s Warrington with the Quaffle, Warrington 
heading for goal, he’s out of Bludger range with just 
the Keeper ahead — ” 

A great swell of song rose from the Slytherin stands 
below: 

Weasley cannot save a thing, 

He cannot block a single ring . . . 

“ — so it’s the first test for new Gryffindor Keeper, 
Weasley, brother of Beaters, Fred and George, and a 
promising new talent on the team — come on, Ron!” 

But the scream of delight came from the Slytherin 
end: Ron had dived wildly, his arms wide, and the 
Quaffle had soared between them, straight through 
Ron’s central hoop. 

“Slytherin score!” came Lee’s voice amid the cheering 
and booing from the crowds below. “So that’s ten-nil 
to Slytherin — bad luck, Ron ...” 

The Slytherins sang even louder: 

WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN, 

HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN ... 

“ — and Gryffindor back in possession and it’s Katie 
Bell tanking up the pitch — ” cried Lee valiantly, 
though the singing was now so deafening that he 
could hardly make himself heard above it. 



Page | 522Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN, 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . . 

“Harry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?” screamed Angelina, 
soaring past him to keep up with Katie. “GET 
GOING!” 

Harry realized that he had been stationary in midair 
for more than a minute, watching the progress of the 
match without sparing a thought for the whereabouts 
of the Snitch; horrified, he went into a dive and 
started circling the pitch again, staring around, trying 
to ignore the chorus now thundering through the 
stadium: 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING, 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . . 

There was no sign of the Snitch anywhere he looked; 
Malfoy was still circling the stadium just like Harry. 
They passed midway around the pitch going in 
opposite directions and Harry heard Malfoy singing 
loudly, 

WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN . . . 

“ — and it’s Warrington again,” bellowed Lee, “who 
passes to Pucey, Pucey’s off past Spinnet, come on 
now Angelina, you can take him — turns out you 
can’t — but nice Bludger from Fred Weasley, I mean, 
George Weasley, oh who cares, one of them anyway, 
and Warrington drops the Quaffle and Katie Bell — er 
— drops it too — so that’s Montague with the Quaffle, 
Slytherin Captain Montague takes the Quaffle, and 
he’s off up the pitch, come on now Gryffindor, block 
him!” 

Harry zoomed around the end of the stadium behind 
the Slytherin goal hoops, willing himself not to look at 

Page | 523Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what was going on at Ron’s end; as he sped past the 
Slytherin Keeper, he heard Bletchley singing along 
with the crowd below, 

WEASLEY CANNOT SAVE A THING . . . 

“ — and Pucey’s dodged Alicia again, and he’s heading 
straight for goal, stop it, Ron!” 

Harry did not have to look to see what had happened: 
There was a terrible groan from the Gryffindor end, 
coupled with fresh screams and applause from the 
Slytherins. Looking down, Harry saw the pug-faced 
Pansy Parkinson right at the front of the stands, her 
back to the pitch as she conducted the Slytherin 
supporters who were roaring: 

THAT’S WHY SLYTHERINS ALL SING: 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING. 

But twenty-nil was nothing, there was still time for 
Gryffindor to catch up or catch the Snitch, a few goals 
and they would be in the lead as usual, Harry 
assured himself, bobbing and weaving through the 
other players in pursuit of something shiny that 
turned out to be Montague’s watch strap... 

But Ron let in two more goals. There was an edge of 
panic in Harry’s desire to find the Snitch now. If he 
could just get it soon and finish the game quickly ... 

“ — and Katie Bell of Gryffindor dodges Pucey, ducks 
Montague, nice swerve, Katie, and she throws to 
Johnson, Angelina Johnson takes the Quaffle, she’s 
past Warrington, she’s heading for goal, come on now 
Angelina — GRYFFINDOR SCORE! It’s forty-ten, forty- 
ten to Slytherin and Pucey has the Quaffle...” 



Page | 524Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could hear Luna’s ludicrous lion hat roaring 
amidst the Gryffindor cheers and felt heartened; only 
thirty points in it, that was nothing, they could pull 
back easily. Harry ducked a Bludger that Crabbe had 
sent rocketing in his direction and resumed his 
frantic scouring of the pitch for the Snitch, keeping 
one eye on Malfoy in case he showed signs of having 
spotted it, but Malfoy, like him, was continuing to 
soar around the stadium, searching fruitlessly . . . 

“ — Pucey throws to Warrington, Warrington to 
Montague, Montague back to Pucey — Johnson 
intervenes, Johnson takes the Quaffle, Johnson to 
Bell, this looks good — I mean bad — Bell’s hit by a 
Bludger from Goyle of Slytherin and it’s Pucey in 
possession again ...” 

WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN, 

HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN, 

WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN — 

But Harry had seen it at last: The tiny fluttering 
Golden Snitch was hovering feet from the ground at 
the Slytherin end of the pitch. 

He dived... 

In a matter of seconds, Malfoy was streaking out of 
the sky on Harry’s left, a green-and-silver blur lying 
flat on his broom... 

The Snitch skirted the foot of one of the goal hoops 
and scooted off toward the other side of the stands; 
its change of direction suited Malfoy, who was nearer. 
Harry pulled his Firebolt around, he and Malfoy were 
now neck and neck . . . 



Page | 525Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Feet from the ground, Harry lifted his right hand from 
his broom, stretching toward the Snitch ... to his 
right, Malfoy’s arm extended too, reaching, groping ... 

It was over in two breathless, desperate, windswept 
seconds — Harry’s fingers closed around the tiny, 
struggling ball — Malfoy’s fingernails scrabbled the 
back of Harry’s hand hopelessly — Harry pulled his 
broom upward, holding the struggling ball in his 
hand and the Gryffindor spectators screamed their 
approval... 

They were saved, it did not matter that Ron had let in 
those goals, nobody would remember as long as 
Gryffindor had won — 

WHAM 

A Bludger hit Harry squarely in the small of the back 
and he flew forward off his broom; luckily he was only 
five or six feet above the ground, having dived so low 
to catch the Snitch, but he was winded all the same 
as he landed flat on his back on the frozen pitch. He 
heard Madam Hooch’s shrill whistle, an uproar in the 
stands compounded of catcalls, angry yells and 
jeering, a thud, then Angelina’s frantic voice. 

“Are you all right?” 

“ ’Course I am,” said Harry grimly, taking her hand 
and allowing her to pull him to his feet. Madam 
Hooch was zooming toward one of the Slytherin 
players above him, though he could not see who it 
was at this angle. 

“It was that thug, Crabbe,” said Angelina angrily. “He 
whacked the Bludger at you the moment he saw you’d 
got the Snitch — but we won, Harry, we won!” 



Page | 526Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heard a snort from behind him and turned 
around, still holding the Snitch tightly in his hand: 
Draco Malfoy had landed close by; white-faced with 
fury, he was still managing to sneer. 

“Saved Weasley’s neck, haven’t you?” he said to 
Harry. “I’ve never seen a worse Keeper ... but then he 
was born in a bin... Did you like my lyrics, Potter?” 

Harry did not answer; he turned away to meet the 
rest of the team who were now landing one by one, 
yelling and punching the air in triumph, all except 
Ron, who had dismounted from his broom over by the 
goalposts and was making his way slowly back to the 
changing rooms alone. 

“We wanted to write another couple of verses!” Malfoy 
called, as Katie and Alicia hugged Harry. “But we 
couldn’t find rhymes for fat and ugly — we wanted to 
sing about his mother, see — ” 

“Talk about sour grapes,” said Angelina, casting 
Malfoy a disgusted look. 

“ — we couldn’t fit in useless loser either — for his 
father, you know — ” 

Fred and George had realized what Malfoy was talking 
about. Halfway through shaking Harry’s hand they 
stiffened, looking around at Malfoy. 

“Leave it,” said Angelina at once, taking Fred by the 
arm. “Leave it, Fred, let him yell, he’s just sore he 
lost, the jumped-up little — ” 

“ — but you like the Weasleys, don’t you, Potter?” said 
Malfoy, sneering. “Spend holidays there and 
everything, don’t you? Can’t see how you stand the 



Page | 527Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




stink, but I suppose when you’ve been dragged up by 
Muggles even the Weasleys’ hovel smells okay — ” 

Harry grabbed hold of George; meanwhile it was 
taking the combined efforts of Angelina, Alicia, and 
Katie to stop Fred leaping on Malfoy, who was 
laughing openly. Harry looked around for Madam 
Hooch, but she was still berating Crabbe for his illegal 
Bludger attack. 

“Or perhaps,” said Malfoy, leering as he backed away, 
“you can remember what your mother’s house stank 
like, Potter, and Weasley’s pigsty reminds you of it — ” 

Harry was not aware of releasing George, all he knew 
was that a second later both of them were sprinting at 
Malfoy. He had completely forgotten the fact that all 
the teachers were watching: All he wanted to do was 
cause Malfoy as much pain as possible. With no time 
to draw out his wand, he merely drew back the fist 
clutching the Snitch and sank it as hard as he could 
into Malfoy’s stomach — 

“Harry! HARRY! GEORGE! 1VO!” 

He could hear girls’ voices screaming, Malfoy yelling, 
George swearing, a whistle blowing, and the bellowing 
of the crowd around him, but he did not care, not 
until somebody in the vicinity yelled “ IMPEDIMENTA !” 
and only when he was knocked over backward by the 
force of the spell did he abandon the attempt to 
punch every inch of Malfoy he could reach... 

“What do you think you’re doing?” screamed Madam 
Hooch, as Harry leapt to his feet again; it was she 
who had hit him with the Impediment Jinx. She was 
holding her whistle in one hand and a wand in the 
other, her broom lay abandoned several feet away. 
Malfoy was curled up on the ground, whimpering and 
Page | 528Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




moaning, his nose bloody; George was sporting a 
swollen lip; Fred was still being forcibly restrained by 
the three Chasers, and Crabbe was cackling in the 
background. “I’ve never seen behavior like it — back 
up to the castle, both of you, and straight to your 
Head of House’s office! Go! Now\” 

Harry and George marched off the pitch, both 
panting, neither saying a word to each other. The 
howling and jeering of the crowd grew fainter and 
fainter until they reached the entrance hall, where 
they could hear nothing except the sound of their own 
footsteps. Harry became aware that something was 
still struggling in his right hand, the knuckles of 
which he had bruised against Malfoy’s jaw; looking 
down he saw the Snitch’s silver wings protruding 
from between his fingers, struggling for release. 

They had barely reached the door of Professor 
McGonagall’s office when she came marching along 
the corridor behind them. She was wearing a 
Gryffindor scarf, but tore it from her throat with 
shaking hands as she strode toward them, looking 
livid. 

“In!” she said furiously, pointing to the door. Harry 
and George entered. She strode around behind her 
desk and faced them, quivering with rage as she 
threw the Gryffindor scarf aside onto the floor. 

“Well?” she said. “I have never seen such a disgraceful 
exhibition. Two onto one! Explain yourselves!” 

“Malfoy provoked us,” said Harry stiffly. 

“Provoked you?” shouted Professor McGonagall, 
slamming a fist onto her desk so that her tartan 
biscuit tin slid sideways off it and burst open, littering 
the floor with Ginger Newts. “He’d just lost, hadn’t he, 

Page | 529Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




of course he wanted to provoke you! But what on 
earth he can have said that justified what you two — ” 

“He insulted my parents,” snarled George. “And 
Harry’s mother.” 

“But instead of leaving it to Madam Hooch to sort out, 
you two decided to give an exhibition of Muggle 
dueling, did you?” bellowed Professor McGonagall. 
“Have you any idea what you’ve — ?” 

“Hem, hem.” 

George and Harry both spun around. Dolores 
Umbridge was standing in the doorway wrapped in a 
green tweed cloak that greatly enhanced her 
resemblance to a giant toad, and smiling in the 
horribly sickly, ominous way that Harry had come to 
associate with imminent misery. 

“May I help, Professor McGonagall?” asked Professor 
Umbridge in her most poisonously sweet voice. 

Blood rushed into Professor McGonagall’s face. 

“Help?” she repeated in a constricted voice. “What do 
you mean, ‘help’?” 

Professor Umbridge moved forward into the office, still 
smiling her sickly smile. 

“Why, I thought you might be grateful for a little extra 
authority.” 

Harry would not have been surprised to see sparks fly 
from Professor McGonagall’s nostrils. 

“You thought wrong,” she said, turning her back on 
Umbridge. “Now, you two had better listen closely. I 

Page | 530Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




do not care what provocation Malfoy offered you, I do 
not care if he insulted every family member you 
possess, your behavior was disgusting and I am 
giving each of you a week’s worth of detention! Do not 
look at me like that, Potter, you deserve it! And if 
either of you ever — ” 

“Hem, hem.” 

Professor McGonagall closed her eyes as though 
praying for patience as she turned her face toward 
Professor Umbridge again. 

“ Yes?” 

“I think they deserve rather more than detentions,” 
said Umbridge, smiling still more broadly. 

Professor McGonagall’s eyes flew open. “But 
unfortunately,” she said, with an attempt at a 
reciprocal smile that made her look as though she 
had lockjaw, “it is what I think that counts, as they 
are in my House, Dolores.” 

“Well, actually, Minerva,” simpered Umbridge, “I think 
you’ll find that what I think does count. Now, where 
is it? Cornelius just sent it... I mean,” she gave a little 
false laugh as she rummaged in her handbag, “the 
Minister just sent it... Ah yes ...” 

She had pulled out a piece of parchment that she now 
unfurled, clearing her throat fussily before starting to 
read what it said. 

“Hem, hem ... ‘Educational Decree Number Twenty- 
five ...’” 

“Not another one!” exclaimed Professor McGonagall 
violently. 

Page | 531Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, yes,” said Umbridge, still smiling. “As a matter 
of fact, Minerva, it was you who made me see that we 
needed a further amendment... You remember how 
you overrode me, when I was unwilling to allow the 
Gryffindor Quidditch team to re-form? How you took 
the case to Dumbledore, who insisted that the team 
be allowed to play? Well, now, I couldn’t have that. I 
contacted the Minister at once, and he quite agreed 
with me that the High Inquisitor has to have the 
power to strip pupils of privileges, or she — that is to 
say, I — would have less authority than common 
teachers! And you see now, don’t you, Minerva, how 
right I was in attempting to stop the Gryffindor team 
re-forming? Dreadful tempers . . . Anyway, I was 
reading out our amendment ... hem, hem ... The High 
Inquisitor will henceforth have supreme authority 
over all punishments, sanctions, and removal of 
privileges pertaining to the students of Hogwarts, and 
the power to alter such punishments, sanctions, and 
removals of privileges as may have been ordered by 
other staff members. Signed, Cornelius Fudge, 
Minister of Magic, Order of Merlin First Class, etc., 
etc...’” 

She rolled up the parchment and put it back into her 
handbag, still smiling. 

“So ... I really think I will have to ban these two from 
playing Quidditch ever again,” she said, looking from 
Harry to George and back again. 

Harry felt the Snitch fluttering madly in his hand. 

“Ban us?” he said, and his voice sounded strangely 
distant. “From playing ... ever again?” 

“Yes, Mr. Potter, I think a lifelong ban ought to do the 
trick,” said Umbridge, her smile widening still further 
as she watched him struggle to comprehend what she 

Page | 532Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had said. “You and Mr. Weasley here. And I think, to 
be safe, this young man’s twin ought to be stopped 
too — if his teammates had not restrained him, I feel 
sure he would have attacked young Mr. Malfoy as 
well. I will want their broomsticks confiscated, of 
course; I shall keep them safely in my office, to make 
sure there is no infringement of my ban. But I am not 
unreasonable, Professor McGonagall,” she continued, 
turning back to Professor McGonagall who was now 
standing as still as though carved from ice, staring at 
her. “The rest of the team can continue playing, I saw 
no signs of violence from any of them. Well ... good 
afternoon to you.” And with a look of the utmost 
satisfaction Umbridge left the room, leaving a 
horrified silence in her wake. 

“Banned,” said Angelina in a hollow voice, late that 
evening in the common room. “ Banned . No Seeker 
and no Beaters . . . What on earth are we going to do?” 

It did not feel as though they had won the match at 
all. Everywhere Harry looked there were disconsolate 
and angry faces; the team themselves were slumped 
around the fire, all apart from Ron, who had not been 
seen since the end of the match. 

“It’s just so unfair,” said Alicia numbly. “I mean, what 
about Crabbe and that Bludger he hit after the 
whistle had been blown? Has she banned him?” 

“No,” said Ginny miserably; she and Hermione were 
sitting on either side of Harry. “He just got lines, I 
heard Montague laughing about it at dinner.” 

“And banning Fred when he didn’t even do anything!” 
said Alicia furiously, pummeling her knee with her 
fist. 



Page | 533Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s not my fault I didn’t,” said Fred, with a very ugly 
look on his face. “I would’ve pounded the little 
scumbag to a pulp if you three hadn’t been holding 
me back.” 

Harry stared miserably at the dark window. Snow was 
falling. The Snitch he had caught earlier was now 
zooming around and around the common room; 
people were watching its progress as though 
hypnotized and Crookshanks was leaping from chair 
to chair, trying to catch it. 

“I’m going to bed,” said Angelina, getting slowly to her 
feet. 

“Maybe this will all turn out to have been a bad 
dream... Maybe I’ll wake up tomorrow and find we 
haven’t played yet...” 

She was soon followed by Alicia and Katie. Fred and 
George sloped off to bed some time later, glowering at 
everyone they passed, and Ginny went not long after 
that. Only Harry and Hermione were left beside the 
fire. 

“Have you seen Ron?” Hermione asked in a low voice. 
Harry shook his head. 

“I think he’s avoiding us,” said Hermione. “Where do 
you think he — ?” 

But at that precise moment, there was a creaking 
sound behind them as the Fat Lady swung forward 
and Ron came clambering through the portrait hole. 
He was very pale indeed and there was snow in his 
hair. When he saw Harry and Hermione he stopped 
dead in his tracks. 



Page | 534Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Where have you been?” said Hermione anxiously, 
springing up. 



“Walking,” Ron mumbled. He was still wearing his 
Quidditch things. 

“You look frozen,” said Hermione. “Come and sit 
down!” 

Ron walked to the fireside and sank into the chair 
farthest from Harry’s, not looking at him. The stolen 
Snitch zoomed over their heads. 

“I’m sorry,” Ron mumbled, looking at his feet. 

“What for?” said Harry. 

“For thinking I can play Quidditch,” said Ron. “I’m 
going to resign first thing tomorrow.” 

“If you resign,” said Harry testily, “there’ll only be 
three players left on the team.” And when Ron looked 
puzzled, he said, “I’ve been given a lifetime ban. So’ve 
Fred and George.” 

“What?” Ron yelped. 

Hermione told him the full story; Harry could not bear 
to tell it again. When she had finished, Ron looked 
more anguished than ever. 

“This is all my fault — ” 

“You didn’t make me punch Malfoy,” said Harry 
angrily. 

“ — if I wasn’t so lousy at Quidditch — ” 

“ — it’s got nothing to do with that — ” 

Page | 535Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ — it was that song that wound me up — ” 

“ — it would’ve wound anyone up — ” 

Hermione got up and walked to the window, away 
from the argument, watching the snow swirling down 
against the pane. 

“Look, drop it, will you!” Harry burst out. “It’s bad 
enough without you blaming yourself for everything!” 

Ron said nothing but sat gazing miserably at the 
damp hem of his robes. After a while he said in a dull 
voice, “This is the worst I’ve ever felt in my life.” 

“Join the club,” said Harry bitterly. 

“Well,” said Hermione, her voice trembling slightly. “I 
can think of one thing that might cheer you both up.” 

“Oh yeah?” said Harry skeptically. 

“Yeah,” said Hermione, turning away from the pitch- 
black, snow-flecked window, a broad smile spreading 
across her face. “Hagrid’s back.” 



Page | 536Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





HAGRID’S TALE 

Harry sprinted up to the boys’ dormitory to fetch the 
Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder’s Map from his 
trunk; he was so quick that he and Ron were ready to 
leave at least five minutes before Hermione hurried 
back down from the girls’ dormitories, wearing scarf, 
gloves, and one of her own knobbly elf hats. 

“Well, it’s cold out there!” she said defensively, as Ron 
clicked his tongue impatiently. 

They crept through the portrait hole and covered 
themselves hastily in the cloak — Ron had grown so 
much he now needed to crouch to prevent his feet 
showing — then, moving slowly and cautiously, they 
proceeded down the many staircases, pausing at 
intervals to check the map for signs of Filch or Mrs. 
Norris. They were lucky; they saw nobody but Nearly 
Headless Nick, who was gliding along absentmindedly 
humming something that sounded horribly like 
“Weasley Is Our King.” They crept across the entrance 
hall and then out into the silent, snowy grounds. 

With a great leap of his heart, Harry saw little golden 
squares of light ahead and smoke coiling up from 

Page | 537Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Hagrid’s chimney. He set off at a quick march, the 
other two jostling and bumping along behind him, 
and they crunched excitedly through the thickening 
snow until at last they reached the wooden front door; 
when Harry raised his fist and knocked three times, a 
dog started barking frantically inside. 

“Hagrid, it’s us!” Harry called through the keyhole. 

“Shoulda known!” said a gruff voice. 

They beamed at one another under the cloak; they 
could tell that Hagrid’s voice was pleased. “Bin home 
three seconds ... Out the way, Fang ... Out the way, 
yeh dozy dog ...” 

The bolt was drawn back, the door creaked open, and 
Hagrid’s head appeared in the gap. 

Hermione screamed. 

“Merlin’s beard, keep it down!” said Hagrid hastily, 
staring wildly over their heads. “Under that cloak, are 
yeh? Well, get in, get in!” 

“I’m sorry!” Hermione gasped, as the three of them 
squeezed past Hagrid into the house and pulled the 
cloak off themselves so he could see them. “I just — 
oh, Hagrid).” 

“It’s nuthin’, it’s nuthin’!” said Hagrid hastily, 
shutting the door behind them and hurrying to close 
all the curtains, but Hermione continued to gaze up 
at him in horror. 

Hagrid’s hair was matted with congealed blood, and 
his left eye had been reduced to a puffy slit amid a 
mass of purple-and-black bruises. There were many 
cuts on his face and hands, some of them still 

Page | 538Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




bleeding, and he was moving gingerly, which made 
Harry suspect broken ribs. It was obvious that he had 
only just got home; a thick black traveling cloak lay 
over the back of a chair and a haversack large enough 
to carry several small children leaned against the wall 
inside the door. Hagrid himself, twice the size of a 
normal man and three times as broad, was now 
limping over to the fire and placing a copper kettle 
