      vow—you came to me without a penny. You had all I could give you.
      You broke that vow without cause, you made me a by-word; you
      refused me a child; you’ve left me in prison; you—you still move
      me so that I want you—I want you. Well, what do you think of
      yourself?”

      Irene turned, her face was deadly pale, her eyes burning dark.

      “God made me as I am,” she said; “wicked if you like—but not so
      wicked that I’ll give myself again to a man I hate.”

      The sunlight gleamed on her hair as she moved away, and seemed to
      lay a caress all down her clinging cream-coloured frock.

      Soames could neither speak nor move. That word “hate”—so extreme,
      so primitive—made all the Forsyte in him tremble. With a deep
      imprecation he strode away from where she had vanished, and ran
      almost into the arms of the lady sauntering back—the fool, the
      shadowing fool!

      He was soon dripping with perspiration, in the depths of the
      Bois.

      “Well,” he thought, “I need have no consideration for her now;
      she has not a grain of it for me. I’ll show her this very day
      that she’s my wife still.”

      But on the way home to his hotel, he was forced to the conclusion
      that he did not know what he meant. One could not make scenes in
      public, and short of scenes in public what was there he could do?
      He almost cursed his own thin-skinnedness. She might deserve no
      consideration; but he—alas! deserved some at his own hands. And
      sitting lunchless in the hall of his hotel, with tourists passing
      every moment, Baedeker in hand, he was visited by black
      dejection. In irons! His whole life, with every natural instinct
      and every decent yearning gagged and fettered, and all because
      Fate had driven him seventeen years ago to set his heart upon
      this woman—so utterly, that even now he had no real heart to set
      on any other! Cursed was the day he had met her, and his eyes for
      seeing in her anything but the cruel Venus she was! And yet,
      still seeing her with the sunlight on the clinging China crepe of
      her gown, he uttered a little groan, so that a tourist who was
      passing, thought: “Man in pain! Let’s see! what did I have for
      lunch?”

      Later, in front of a café near the Opera, over a glass of cold
      tea with lemon and a straw in it, he took the malicious
      resolution to go and dine at her hotel. If she were there, he
      would speak to her; if she were not, he would leave a note. He
      dressed carefully, and wrote as follows:

      “Your idyll with that fellow Jolyon Forsyte is known to me at all
      events. If you pursue it, understand that I will leave no stone
      unturned to make things unbearable for him.

      ‘S. F.’”

      He sealed this note but did not address it, refusing to write the
      maiden name which she had impudently resumed, or to put the word
      Forsyte on the envelope lest she should tear it up unread. Then
      he went out, and made his way through the glowing streets,
      abandoned to evening pleasure-seekers. Entering her hotel, he
      took his seat in a far corner of the dining-room whence he could
      see all entrances and exits. She was not there. He ate little,
      quickly, watchfully. She did not come. He lingered in the lounge
      over his coffee, drank two liqueurs of brandy. But still she did
      not come. He went over to the keyboard and examined the names.
      Number twelve, on the first floor! And he determined to take the
      note up himself. He mounted red-carpeted stairs, past a little
      salon; eight-ten-twelve! Should he knock, push the note under,
      or...? He looked furtively round and turned the handle. The door
      opened, but into a little space leading to another door; he
      knocked on that—no answer. The door was locked. It fitted very
      closely to the floor; the note would not go under. He thrust it
      back into his pocket, and stood a moment listening. He felt
      somehow certain that she was not there. And suddenly he came
      away, passing the little salon down the stairs. He stopped at the
      bureau and said:

      “Will you kindly see that Mrs. Heron has this note?”

      “Madame Heron left to-day, Monsieur—suddenly, about three
      o’clock. There was illness in her family.”

      Soames compressed his lips. “Oh!” he said; “do you know her
      address?”

      “_Non, Monsieur_. England, I think.”

      Soames put the note back into his pocket and went out. He hailed
      an open horse-cab which was passing.

      “Drive me anywhere!”

      The man, who, obviously, did not understand, smiled, and waved
      his whip. And Soames was borne along in that little
      yellow-wheeled Victoria all over star-shaped Paris, with here and
      there a pause, and the question, “_C’est par ici, Monsieur?_”
      “No, go on,” till the man gave it up in despair, and the
      yellow-wheeled chariot continued to roll between the tall,
      flat-fronted shuttered houses and plane-tree avenues—a little
      Flying Dutchman of a cab.

      “Like my life,” thought Soames, “without object, on and on!”




      CHAPTER II IN THE WEB


      Soames returned to England the following day, and on the third
      morning received a visit from Mr. Polteed, who wore a flower and
      carried a brown billycock hat. Soames motioned him to a seat.

      “The news from the war is not so bad, is it?” said Mr. Polteed.
      “I hope I see you well, sir.”

      “Thanks! quite.”

      Mr. Polteed leaned forward, smiled, opened his hand, looked into
      it, and said softly:

      “I think we’ve done your business for you at last.”

      “What?” ejaculated Soames.

      “Nineteen reports quite suddenly what I think we shall be
      justified in calling conclusive evidence,” and Mr. Polteed
      paused.

      “Well?”

      “On the 10th instant, after witnessing an interview between 17
      and a party, earlier in the day, 19 can swear to having seen him
      coming out of her bedroom in the hotel about ten o’clock in the
      evening. With a little care in the giving of the evidence that
      will be enough, especially as 17 has left Paris—no doubt with the
      party in question. In fact, they both slipped off, and we haven’t
      got on to them again, yet; but we shall—we shall. She’s worked
      hard under very difficult circumstances, and I’m glad she’s
      brought it off at last.” Mr. Polteed took out a cigarette, tapped
      its end against the table, looked at Soames, and put it back. The
      expression on his client’s face was not encouraging.

      “Who is this new person?” said Soames abruptly.

      “That we don’t know. She’ll swear to the fact, and she’s got his
      appearance pat.”

      Mr. Polteed took out a letter, and began reading:

      “‘Middle-aged, medium height, blue dittoes in afternoon, evening
      dress at night, pale, dark hair, small dark moustache, flat
      cheeks, good chin, grey eyes, small feet, guilty look....’”

      Soames rose and went to the window. He stood there in sardonic
      fury. Congenital idiot—spidery congenital idiot! Seven months at
      fifteen pounds a week—to be tracked down as his own wife’s lover!
      Guilty look! He threw the window open.

      “It’s hot,” he said, and came back to his seat.

      Crossing his knees, he bent a supercilious glance on Mr. Polteed.

      “I doubt if that’s quite good enough,” he said, drawling the
      words, “with no name or address. I think you may let that lady
      have a rest, and take up our friend 47 at this end.” Whether
      Polteed had spotted him he could not tell; but he had a mental
      vision of him in the midst of his cronies dissolved in
      inextinguishable laughter. “Guilty look!” Damnation!

      Mr. Polteed said in a tone of urgency, almost of pathos: “I
      assure you we have put it through sometimes on less than that.
      It’s Paris, you know. Attractive woman living alone. Why not risk
      it, sir? We might screw it up a peg.”

      Soames had sudden insight. The fellow’s professional zeal was
      stirred: “Greatest triumph of my career; got a man his divorce
      through a visit to his own wife’s bedroom! Something to talk of
      there, when I retire!” And for one wild moment he thought: “Why
      not?” After all, hundreds of men of medium height had small feet
      and a guilty look!

      “I’m not authorised to take any risk!” he said shortly.

      Mr. Polteed looked up.

      “Pity,” he said, “quite a pity! That other affair seemed very
      costive.”

      Soames rose.

      “Never mind that. Please watch 47, and take care not to find a
      mare’s nest. Good-morning!”

      Mr. Polteed’s eye glinted at the words “mare’s nest!”

      “Very good. You shall be kept informed.”

      And Soames was alone again. The spidery, dirty, ridiculous
      business! Laying his arms on the table, he leaned his forehead on
      them. Full ten minutes he rested thus, till a managing clerk
      roused him with the draft prospectus of a new issue of shares,
      very desirable, in Manifold and Topping’s. That afternoon he left
      work early and made his way to the Restaurant Bretagne. Only
      Madame Lamotte was in. Would _Monsieur_ have tea with her?

      Soames bowed.

      When they were seated at right angles to each other in the little
      room, he said abruptly:

      “I want a talk with you, _Madame_.”

      The quick lift of her clear brown eyes told him that she had long
      expected such words.

      “I have to ask you something first: That young doctor—what’s his
      name? Is there anything between him and Annette?”

      Her whole personality had become, as it were, like jet—clear-cut,
      black, hard, shining.

      “Annette is young,” she said; “so is _monsieur le docteur_.
      Between young people things move quickly; but Annette is a good
      daughter. Ah! what a jewel of a nature!”

      The least little smile twisted Soames’ lips.

      “Nothing definite, then?”

      “But definite—no, indeed! The young man is veree nice, but—what
      would you? There is no money at present.”

      She raised her willow-patterned tea-cup; Soames did the same.
      Their eyes met.

      “I am a married man,” he said, “living apart from my wife for
      many years. I am seeking to divorce her.”

      Madame Lamotte put down her cup. Indeed! What tragic things there
      were! The entire absence of sentiment in her inspired a queer
      species of contempt in Soames.

      “I am a rich man,” he added, fully conscious that the remark was
      not in good taste. “It is useless to say more at present, but I
      think you understand.”

      Madame’s eyes, so open that the whites showed above them, looked
      at him very straight.

      “_Ah! ça—mais nous avons le temps!_” was all she said. “Another
      little cup?” Soames refused, and, taking his leave, walked
      westward.

      He had got that off his mind; she would not let Annette commit
      herself with that cheerful young ass until...! But what chance of
      his ever being able to say: “I’m free?” What chance? The future
      had lost all semblance of reality. He felt like a fly, entangled
      in cobweb filaments, watching the desirable freedom of the air
      with pitiful eyes.

      He was short of exercise, and wandered on to Kensington Gardens,
      and down Queen’s Gate towards Chelsea. Perhaps she had gone back
      to her flat. That at all events he could find out. For since that
      last and most ignominious repulse his wounded self-respect had
      taken refuge again in the feeling that she must have a lover. He
      arrived before the little Mansions at the dinner-hour. No need to
      enquire! A grey-haired lady was watering the flower-boxes in her
      window. It was evidently let. And he walked slowly past again,
      along the river—an evening of clear, quiet beauty, all harmony
      and comfort, except within his heart.




      CHAPTER III RICHMOND PARK


      On the afternoon that Soames crossed to France a cablegram was
      received by Jolyon at Robin Hill:

      “Your son down with enteric no immediate danger will cable
      again.”

      It reached a household already agitated by the imminent departure
      of June, whose berth was booked for the following day. She was,
      indeed, in the act of confiding Eric Cobbley and his family to
      her father’s care when the message arrived.

      The resolution to become a Red Cross nurse, taken under stimulus
      of Jolly’s enlistment, had been loyally fulfilled with the
      irritation and regret which all Forsytes feel at what curtails
      their individual liberties. Enthusiastic at first about the
      “wonderfulness” of the work, she had begun after a month to feel
      that she could train herself so much better than others could
      train her. And if Holly had not insisted on following her
      example, and being trained too, she must inevitably have “cried
      off.” The departure of Jolly and Val with their troop in April
      had further stiffened her failing resolve. But now, on the point
      of departure, the thought of leaving Eric Cobbley, with a wife
      and two children, adrift in the cold waters of an unappreciative
      world weighed on her so that she was still in danger of backing
      out. The reading of that cablegram, with its disquieting reality,
      clinched the matter. She saw herself already nursing Jolly—for of
      course they would let her nurse her own brother! Jolyon—ever wide
      and doubtful—had no such hope. Poor June!

      Could any Forsyte of her generation grasp how rude and brutal
      life was? Ever since he knew of his boy’s arrival at Cape Town
      the thought of him had been a kind of recurrent sickness in
      Jolyon. He could not get reconciled to the feeling that Jolly was
      in danger all the time. The cablegram, grave though it was, was
      almost a relief. He was now safe from bullets, anyway. And
      yet—this enteric was a virulent disease! _The Times_ was full of
      deaths therefrom. Why could _he_ not be lying out there in that
      up-country hospital, and his boy safe at home? The un-Forsytean
      self-sacrifice of his three children, indeed, had quite
      bewildered Jolyon. He would eagerly change places with Jolly,
      because he loved his boy; but no such personal motive was
      influencing _them_. He could only think that it marked the
      decline of the Forsyte type.

      Late that afternoon Holly came out to him under the old oak-tree.
      She had grown up very much during these last months of hospital
      training away from home. And, seeing her approach, he thought:
      “She has more sense than June, child though she is; more wisdom.
      Thank God _she_ isn’t going out.” She had seated herself in the
      swing, very silent and still. “She feels this,” thought Jolyon,
      “as much as I” and, seeing her eyes fixed on him, he said: “Don’t
      take it to heart too much, my child. If he weren’t ill, he might
      be in much greater danger.”

      Holly got out of the swing.

      “I want to tell you something, Dad. It was through me that Jolly
      enlisted and went out.”

      “How’s that?”

      “When you were away in Paris, Val Dartie and I fell in love. We
      used to ride in Richmond Park; we got engaged. Jolly found it
      out, and thought he ought to stop it; so he dared Val to enlist.
      It was all my fault, Dad; and I want to go out too. Because if
      anything happens to either of them I should feel awful. Besides,
      I’m just as much trained as June.”

      Jolyon gazed at her in a stupefaction that was tinged with irony.
      So this was the answer to the riddle he had been asking himself;
      and his three children were Forsytes after all. Surely Holly
      might have told him all this before! But he smothered the
      sarcastic sayings on his lips. Tenderness to the young was
      perhaps the most sacred article of his belief. He had got, no
      doubt, what he deserved. Engaged! So this was why he had so lost
      touch with her! And to young Val Dartie—nephew of Soames—in the
      other camp! It was all terribly distasteful. He closed his easel,
      and set his drawing against the tree.

      “Have you told June?”

      “Yes; she says she’ll get me into her cabin somehow. It’s a
      single cabin; but one of us could sleep on the floor. If you
      consent, she’ll go up now and get permission.”

      “Consent?” thought Jolyon. “Rather late in the day to ask for
      that!” But again he checked himself.

      “You’re too young, my dear; they won’t let you.”

      “June knows some people that she helped to go to Cape Town. If
      they won’t let me nurse yet, I could stay with them and go on
      training there. Let me go, Dad!”

      Jolyon smiled because he could have cried.

      “I never stop anyone from doing anything,” he said.

      Holly flung her arms round his neck.

      “Oh! Dad, you are the best in the world.”

      “That means the worst,” thought Jolyon. If he had ever doubted
      his creed of tolerance he did so then.

      “I’m not friendly with Val’s family,” he said, “and I don’t know
      Val, but Jolly didn’t like him.”

      Holly looked at the distance and said:

      “I love him.”

      “That settles it,” said Jolyon dryly, then catching the
      expression on her face, he kissed her, with the thought: “Is
      anything more pathetic than the faith of the young?” Unless he
      actually forbade her going it was obvious that he must make the
      best of it, so he went up to town with June. Whether due to her
      persistence, or the fact that the official they saw was an old
      school friend of Jolyon’s, they obtained permission for Holly to
      share the single cabin. He took them to Surbiton station the
      following evening, and they duly slid away from him, provided
      with money, invalid foods, and those letters of credit without
      which Forsytes do not travel.

      He drove back to Robin Hill under a brilliant sky to his late
      dinner, served with an added care by servants trying to show him
      that they sympathised, eaten with an added scrupulousness to show
      them that he appreciated their sympathy. But it was a real relief
      to get to his cigar on the terrace of flag-stones—cunningly
      chosen by young Bosinney for shape and colour—with night closing
      in around him, so beautiful a night, hardly whispering in the
      trees, and smelling so sweet that it made him ache. The grass was
      drenched with dew, and he kept to those flagstones, up and down,
      till presently it began to seem to him that he was one of three,
      not wheeling, but turning right about at each end, so that his
      father was always nearest to the house, and his son always
      nearest to the terrace edge. Each had an arm lightly within his
      arm; he dared not lift his hand to his cigar lest he should
      disturb them, and it burned away, dripping ash on him, till it
      dropped from his lips, at last, which were getting hot. They left
      him then, and his arms felt chilly. Three Jolyons in one Jolyon
      they had walked.

      He stood still, counting the sounds—a carriage passing on the
      highroad, a distant train, the dog at Gage’s farm, the whispering
      trees, the groom playing on his penny whistle. A multitude of
      stars up there—bright and silent, so far off! No moon as yet!
      Just enough light to show him the dark flags and swords of the
      iris flowers along the terrace edge—his favourite flower that had
      the night’s own colour on its curving crumpled petals. He turned
      round to the house. Big, unlighted, not a soul beside himself to
      live in all that part of it. Stark loneliness! He could not go on
      living here alone. And yet, so long as there was beauty, why
      should a man feel lonely? The answer—as to some idiot’s
      riddle—was: Because he did. The greater the beauty, the greater
      the loneliness, for at the back of beauty was harmony, and at the
      back of harmony was—union. Beauty could not comfort if the soul
      were out of it. The night, maddeningly lovely, with bloom of
      grapes on it in starshine, and the breath of grass and honey
      coming from it, he could not enjoy, while she who was to him the
      life of beauty, its embodiment and essence, was cut off from him,
      utterly cut off now, he felt, by honourable decency.

      He made a poor fist of sleeping, striving too hard after that
      resignation which Forsytes find difficult to reach, bred to their
      own way and left so comfortably off by their fathers. But after
      dawn he dozed off, and soon was dreaming a strange dream.

      He was on a stage with immensely high rich curtains—high as the
      very stars—stretching in a semi-circle from footlights to
      footlights. He himself was very small, a little black restless
      figure roaming up and down; and the odd thing was that he was not
      altogether himself, but Soames as well, so that he was not only
      experiencing but watching. This figure of himself and Soames was
      trying to find a way out through the curtains, which, heavy and
      dark, kept him in. Several times he had crossed in front of them
      before he saw with delight a sudden narrow rift—a tall chink of
      beauty the colour of iris flowers, like a glimpse of Paradise,
      remote, ineffable. Stepping quickly forward to pass into it, he
      found the curtains closing before him. Bitterly disappointed
      he—or was it Soames?—moved on, and there was the chink again
      through the parted curtains, which again closed too soon. This
      went on and on and he never got through till he woke with the
      word “Irene” on his lips. The dream disturbed him badly,
      especially that identification of himself with Soames.

      Next morning, finding it impossible to work, he spent hours
      riding Jolly’s horse in search of fatigue. And on the second day
      he made up his mind to move to London and see if he could not get
      permission to follow his daughters to South Africa. He had just
      begun to pack the following morning when he received this letter:

      “GREEN HOTEL,
      “RICHMOND.
      “_June_ 13.

       “MY DEAR JOLYON,
          “You will be surprised to see how near I am to you. Paris
          became impossible—and I have come here to be within reach of
          your advice. I would so love to see you again. Since you left
          Paris I don’t think I have met anyone I could really talk to.
          Is all well with you and with your boy? No one knows, I
          think, that I am here at present.

      “Always your friend,
      “IRENE.”

      Irene within three miles of him!—and again in flight! He stood
      with a very queer smile on his lips. This was more than he had
      bargained for!

      About noon he set out on foot across Richmond Park, and as he
      went along, he thought: “Richmond Park! By Jove, it suits us
      Forsytes!” Not that Forsytes lived there—nobody lived there save
      royalty, rangers, and the deer—but in Richmond Park Nature was
      allowed to go so far and no further, putting up a brave show of
      being natural, seeming to say: “Look at my instincts—they are
      almost passions, very nearly out of hand, but not quite, of
      course; the very hub of possession is to possess oneself.” Yes!
      Richmond Park possessed itself, even on that bright day of June,
      with arrowy cuckoos shifting the tree-points of their calls, and
      the wood doves announcing high summer.

      The Green Hotel, which Jolyon entered at one o’clock, stood
      nearly opposite that more famous hostelry, the Crown and Sceptre;
      it was modest, highly respectable, never out of cold beef,
      gooseberry tart, and a dowager or two, so that a carriage and
      pair was almost always standing before the door.

      In a room draped in chintz so slippery as to forbid all emotion,
      Irene was sitting on a piano stool covered with crewel work,
      playing “Hansel and Gretel” out of an old score. Above her on a
      wall, not yet Morris-papered, was a print of the Queen on a pony,
      amongst deer-hounds, Scotch caps, and slain stags; beside her in
      a pot on the window-sill was a white and rosy fuchsia. The
      Victorianism of the room almost talked; and in her clinging frock
      Irene seemed to Jolyon like Venus emerging from the shell of the
      past century.

      “If the proprietor had eyes,” he said, “he would show you the
      door; you have broken through his decorations.” Thus lightly he
      smothered up an emotional moment. Having eaten cold beef, pickled
      walnut, gooseberry tart, and drunk stone-bottle ginger-beer, they
      walked into the Park, and light talk was succeeded by the silence
      Jolyon had dreaded.

      “You haven’t told me about Paris,” he said at last.

      “No. I’ve been shadowed for a long time; one gets used to that.
      But then Soames came. By the little Niobe—the same story; would I
      go back to him?”

      “Incredible!”

      She had spoken without raising her eyes, but she looked up now.
      Those dark eyes clinging to his said as no words could have: “I
      have come to an end; if you want me, here I am.”

      For sheer emotional intensity had he ever—old as he was—passed
      through such a moment?

      The words: “Irene, I adore you!” almost escaped him. Then, with a
      clearness of which he would not have believed mental vision
      capable, he saw Jolly lying with a white face turned to a white
      wall.

      “My boy is very ill out there,” he said quietly.

      Irene slipped her arm through his.

      “Let’s walk on; I understand.”

      No miserable explanation to attempt! She had understood! And they
      walked on among the bracken, knee-high already, between the
      rabbit-holes and the oak-trees, talking of Jolly. He left her two
      hours later at the Richmond Hill Gate, and turned towards home.

      “She knows of my feeling for her, then,” he thought. Of course!
      One could not keep knowledge of that from such a woman!




      CHAPTER IV OVER THE RIVER


      Jolly was tired to death of dreams. They had left him now too wan
      and weak to dream again; left him to lie torpid, faintly
      remembering far-off things; just able to turn his eyes and gaze
      through the window near his cot at the trickle of river running
      by in the sands, at the straggling milk-bush of the Karoo beyond.
      He knew what the Karoo was now, even if he had not seen a Boer
      roll over like a rabbit, or heard the whine of flying bullets.
      This pestilence had sneaked on him before he had smelled powder.
      A thirsty day and a rash drink, or perhaps a tainted fruit—who
      knew? Not he, who had not even strength left to grudge the evil
      thing its victory—just enough to know that there were many lying
      here with him, that he was sore with frenzied dreaming; just
      enough to watch that thread of river and be able to remember
      faintly those far-away things....

      The sun was nearly down. It would be cooler soon. He would have
      liked to know the time—to feel his old watch, so butter-smooth,
      to hear the repeater strike. It would have been friendly,
      home-like. He had not even strength to remember that the old
      watch was last wound the day he began to lie here. The pulse of
      his brain beat so feebly that faces which came and went, nurse’s,
      doctor’s, orderly’s, were indistinguishable, just one indifferent
      face; and the words spoken about him meant all the same thing,
      and that almost nothing. Those things he used to do, though far
      and faint, were more distinct—walking past the foot of the old
      steps at Harrow “bill”—“Here, sir! Here, sir!”—wrapping boots in
      the Westminster Gazette, greenish paper, shining
      boots—grandfather coming from somewhere dark—a smell of earth—the
      mushroom house! Robin Hill! Burying poor old Balthasar in the
      leaves! Dad! Home....

      Consciousness came again with noticing that the river had no
      water in it—someone was speaking too. Want anything? No. What
      could one want? Too weak to want—only to hear his watch
      strike....

      Holly! She wouldn’t bowl properly. Oh! Pitch them up! Not
      sneaks!... “Back her, Two and Bow!” He was Two!... Consciousness
      came once more with a sense of the violet dusk outside, and a
      rising blood-red crescent moon. His eyes rested on it fascinated;
      in the long minutes of brain-nothingness it went moving up and
      up....

      “He’s going, doctor!” Not pack boots again? Never? “Mind your
      form, Two!” Don’t cry! Go quietly—over the river—sleep!... Dark?
      If somebody would—strike—his—watch!...




      CHAPTER V SOAMES ACTS


      A sealed letter in the handwriting of Mr. Polteed remained
      unopened in Soames’ pocket throughout two hours of sustained
      attention to the affairs of the “New Colliery Company,” which,
      declining almost from the moment of old Jolyon’s retirement from
      the Chairmanship, had lately run down so fast that there was now
      nothing for it but a “winding-up.” He took the letter out to
      lunch at his City Club, sacred to him for the meals he had eaten
      there with his father in the early seventies, when James used to
      like him to come and see for himself the nature of his future
      life.

      Here in a remote corner before a plate of roast mutton and mashed
      potato, he read:

      “DEAR SIR,
          “In accordance with your suggestion we have duly taken the
          matter up at the other end with gratifying results.
          Observation of 47 has enabled us to locate 17 at the Green
          Hotel, Richmond. The two have been observed to meet daily
          during the past week in Richmond Park. Nothing absolutely
          crucial has so far been notified. But in conjunction with
          what we had from Paris at the beginning of the year, I am
          confident we could now satisfy the Court. We shall, of
          course, continue to watch the matter until we hear from you.

      “Very faithfully yours,
      “CLAUD POLTEED.”

      Soames read it through twice and beckoned to the waiter:

      “Take this away; it’s cold.”

      “Shall I bring you some more, sir?”

      “No. Get me some coffee in the other room.”

      And, paying for what he had not eaten, he went out, passing two
      acquaintances without sign of recognition.

      “Satisfy the Court!” he thought, sitting at a little round marble
      table with the coffee before him. That fellow Jolyon! He poured
      out his coffee, sweetened and drank it. He would disgrace him in
      the eyes of his own children! And rising, with that resolution
      hot within him, he found for the first time the inconvenience of
      being his own solicitor. He could not treat this scandalous
      matter in his own office. He must commit the soul of his private
      dignity to a stranger, some other professional dealer in family
      dishonour. Who was there he could go to? Linkman and Laver in
      Budge Row, perhaps—reliable, not too conspicuous, only nodding
      acquaintances. But before he saw them he must see Polteed again.
      But at this thought Soames had a moment of sheer weakness. To
      part with his secret? How find the words? How subject himself to
      contempt and secret laughter? Yet, after all, the fellow knew
      already—oh yes, he knew! And, feeling that he must finish with it
      now, he took a cab into the West End.

      In this hot weather the window of Mr. Polteed’s room was
      positively open, and the only precaution was a wire gauze,
      preventing the intrusion of flies. Two or three had tried to come
      in, and been caught, so that they seemed to be clinging there
      with the intention of being devoured presently. Mr. Polteed,
      following the direction of his client’s eye, rose apologetically
      and closed the window.

      “Posing ass!” thought Soames. Like all who fundamentally believe
      in themselves he was rising to the occasion, and, with his little
      sideway smile, he said: “I’ve had your letter. I’m going to act.
      I suppose you know who the lady you’ve been watching really is?”
      Mr. Polteed’s expression at that moment was a masterpiece. It so
      clearly said: “Well, what do you think? But mere professional
      knowledge, I assure you—pray forgive it!” He made a little half
      airy movement with his hand, as who should say: “Such things—such
      things will happen to us all!”

      “Very well, then,” said Soames, moistening his lips: “there’s no
      need to say more. I’m instructing Linkman and Laver of Budge Row
      to act for me. I don’t want to hear your evidence, but kindly
      make your report to them at five o’clock, and continue to observe
      the utmost secrecy.”

      Mr. Polteed half closed his eyes, as if to comply at once. “My
      dear sir,” he said.

      “Are you convinced,” asked Soames with sudden energy, “that there
      is enough?”

      The faintest movement occurred to Mr. Polteed’s shoulders.

      “You can risk it,” he murmured; “with what we have, and human
      nature, you can risk it.”

      Soames rose. “You will ask for Mr. Linkman. Thanks; don’t get
      up.” He could not bear Mr. Polteed to slide as usual between him
      and the door. In the sunlight of Piccadilly he wiped his
      forehead. This had been the worst of it—he could stand the
      strangers better. And he went back into the City to do what still
      lay before him.

      That evening in Park Lane, watching his father dine, he was
      overwhelmed by his old longing for a son—a son, to watch _him_
      eat as he went down the years, to be taken on _his_ knee as James
      on a time had been wont to take him; a son of his own begetting,
      who could understand him because he was the same flesh and
      blood—understand, and comfort him, and become more rich and
      cultured than himself because he would start even better off. To
      get old—like that thin, grey wiry-frail figure sitting there—and
      be quite alone with possessions heaping up around him; to take no
      interest in anything because it had no future and must pass away
      from him to hands and mouths and eyes for whom he cared no jot!
      No! He would force it through now, and be free to marry, and have
      a son to care for him before he grew to be like the old old man
      his father, wistfully watching now his sweetbread, now his son.

      In that mood he went up to bed. But, lying warm between those
      fine linen sheets of Emily’s providing, he was visited by
      memories and torture. Visions of Irene, almost the solid feeling
      of her body, beset him. Why had he ever been fool enough to see
      her again, and let this flood back on him so that it was pain to
      think of her with that fellow—that stealing fellow.




      CHAPTER VI A SUMMER DAY


      His boy was seldom absent from Jolyon’s mind in the days which
      followed the first walk with Irene in Richmond Park. No further
      news had come; enquiries at the War Office elicited nothing; nor
      could he expect to hear from June and Holly for three weeks at
      least. In these days he felt how insufficient were his memories
      of Jolly, and what an amateur of a father he had been. There was
      not a single memory in which anger played a part; not one
      reconciliation, because there had never been a rupture; nor one
      heart-to-heart confidence, not even when Jolly’s mother died.
      Nothing but half-ironical affection. He had been too afraid of
      committing himself in any direction, for fear of losing his
      liberty, or interfering with that of his boy.

      Only in Irene’s presence had he relief, highly complicated by the
      ever-growing perception of how divided he was between her and his
      son. With Jolly was bound up all that sense of continuity and
      social creed of which he had drunk deeply in his youth and again
      during his boy’s public school and varsity life—all that sense of
      not going back on what father and son expected of each other.
      With Irene was bound up all his delight in beauty and in Nature.
      And he seemed to know less and less which was the stronger within
      him. From such sentimental paralysis he was rudely awakened,
      however, one afternoon, just as he was starting off to Richmond,
      by a young man with a bicycle and a face oddly familiar, who came
      forward faintly smiling.

      “Mr. Jolyon Forsyte? Thank you!” Placing an envelope in Jolyon’s
      hand he wheeled off the path and rode away. Bewildered, Jolyon
      opened it.

      “Admiralty Probate and Divorce, Forsyte _v._ Forsyte and
      Forsyte!”

      A sensation of shame and disgust was followed by the instant
      reaction “Why, here’s the very thing you want, and you don’t like
      it!” But she must have had one too; and he must go to her at
      once. He turned things over as he went along. It was an ironical
      business. For, whatever the Scriptures said about the heart, it
      took more than mere longings to satisfy the law. They could
      perfectly well defend this suit, or at least in good faith try
      to. But the idea of doing so revolted Jolyon. If not her lover in
      deed he was in desire, and he knew that she was ready to come to
      him. Her face had told him so. Not that he exaggerated her
      feeling for him. She had had her grand passion, and he could not
      expect another from her at his age. But she had trust in him,
      affection for him, and must feel that he would be a refuge.
      Surely she would not ask him to defend the suit, knowing that he
      adored her! Thank Heaven she had not that maddening British
      conscientiousness which refused happiness for the sake of
      refusing! She must rejoice at this chance of being free after
      seventeen years of death in life! As to publicity, the fat was in
      the fire! To defend the suit would not take away the slur. Jolyon
      had all the proper feeling of a Forsyte whose privacy is
      threatened: If he was to be hung by the Law, by all means let it
      be for a sheep! Moreover the notion of standing in a witness box
      and swearing to the truth that no gesture, not even a word of
      love had passed between them seemed to him more degrading than to
      take the tacit stigma of being an adulterer—more truly degrading,
      considering the feeling in his heart, and just as bad and painful
      for his children. The thought of explaining away, if he could,
      before a judge and twelve average Englishmen, their meetings in
      Paris, and the walks in Richmond Park, horrified him. The
      brutality and hypocritical censoriousness of the whole process;
      the probability that they would not be believed—the mere vision
      of her, whom he looked on as the embodiment of Nature and of
      Beauty, standing there before all those suspicious, gloating eyes
      was hideous to him. No, no! To defend a suit only made a London
      holiday, and sold the newspapers. A thousand times better accept
      what Soames and the gods had sent!

      “Besides,” he thought honestly, “who knows whether, even for my
      boy’s sake, I could have stood this state of things much longer?
      Anyway, her neck will be out of chancery at last!” Thus absorbed,
      he was hardly conscious of the heavy heat. The sky had become
      overcast, purplish with little streaks of white. A heavy
      heat-drop plashed a little star pattern in the dust of the road
      as he entered the Park. “Phew!” he thought, “thunder! I hope
      she’s not come to meet me; there’s a ducking up there!” But at
      that very minute he saw Irene coming towards the Gate. “We must
      scuttle back to Robin Hill,” he thought.

      The storm had passed over the Poultry at four o’clock, bringing
      welcome distraction to the clerks in every office. Soames was
      drinking a cup of tea when a note was brought in to him:

      “DEAR SIR,

      _Forsyte v. Forsyte and Forsyte_

          “In accordance with your instructions, we beg to inform you
          that we personally served the respondent and co-respondent in
          this suit to-day, at Richmond, and Robin Hill, respectively.

      “Faithfully yours,
      “LINKMAN AND LAVER.”

      For some minutes Soames stared at that note. Ever since he had
      given those instructions he had been tempted to annul them. It
      was so scandalous, such a general disgrace! The evidence, too,
      what he had heard of it, had never seemed to him conclusive;
      somehow, he believed less and less that those two had gone all
      lengths. But this, of course, would drive them to it; and he
      suffered from the thought. That fellow to have her love, where he
      had failed! Was it too late? Now that they had been brought up
      sharp by service of this petition, had he not a lever with which
      he could force them apart? “But if I don’t act at once,” he
      thought, “it will be too late, now they’ve had this thing. I’ll
      go and see him; I’ll go down!”

      And, sick with nervous anxiety, he sent out for one of the
      “new-fangled” motor-cabs. It might take a long time to run that
      fellow to ground, and Goodness knew what decision they might come
      to after such a shock! “If I were a theatrical ass,” he thought,
      “I suppose I should be taking a horse-whip or a pistol or
      something!” He took instead a bundle of papers in the case of
      “Magentie versus Wake,” intending to read them on the way down.
      He did not even open them, but sat quite still, jolted and
      jarred, unconscious of the draught down the back of his neck, or
      the smell of petrol. He must be guided by the fellow’s attitude;
      the great thing was to keep his head!

      London had already begun to disgorge its workers as he neared
      Putney Bridge; the ant-heap was on the move outwards. What a lot
      of ants, all with a living to get, holding on by their eyelids in
      the great scramble! Perhaps for the first time in his life Soames
      thought: “_I_ could let go if I liked! Nothing could touch me; I
      could snap my fingers, live as I wished—enjoy myself!” No! One
      could not live as he had and just drop it all—settle down in
      Capua, to spend the money and reputation he had made. A man’s
      life was what he possessed and sought to possess. Only fools
      thought otherwise—fools, and socialists, and libertines!

      The cab was passing villas now, going a great pace. “Fifteen
      miles an hour, I should think!” he mused; “this’ll take people
      out of town to live!” and he thought of its bearing on the
      portions of London owned by his father—he himself had never taken
      to that form of investment, the gambler in him having all the
      outlet needed in his pictures. And the cab sped on, down the hill
      past Wimbledon Common. This interview! Surely a man of fifty-two
      with grown-up children, and hung on the line, would not be
      reckless. “He won’t want to disgrace the family,” he thought; “he
      was as fond of his father as I am of mine, and they were
      brothers. That woman brings destruction—what is it in her? I’ve
      never known.” The cab branched off, along the side of a wood, and
      he heard a late cuckoo calling, almost the first he had heard
      that year. He was now almost opposite the site he had originally
      chosen for his house, and which had been so unceremoniously
      rejected by Bosinney in favour of his own choice. He began
      passing his handkerchief over his face and hands, taking deep
      breaths to give him steadiness. “Keep one’s head,” he thought,
      “keep one’s head!”

      The cab turned in at the drive which might have been his own, and
      the sound of music met him. He had forgotten the fellow’s
      daughters.

      “I may be out again directly,” he said to the driver, “or I may
      be kept some time”; and he rang the bell.

      Following the maid through the curtains into the inner hall, he
      felt relieved that the impact of this meeting would be broken by
      June or Holly, whichever was playing in there, so that with
      complete surprise he saw Irene at the piano, and Jolyon sitting
      in an armchair listening. They both stood up. Blood surged into
      Soames’ brain, and all his resolution to be guided by this or
      that left him utterly. The look of his farmer forbears—dogged
      Forsytes down by the sea, from “Superior Dosset” back—grinned out
      of his face.

      “Very pretty!” he said.

      He heard the fellow murmur:

      “This is hardly the place—we’ll go to the study, if you don’t
      mind.” And they both passed him through the curtain opening. In
      the little room to which he followed them, Irene stood by the
      open window, and the “fellow” close to her by a big chair. Soames
      pulled the door to behind him with a slam; the sound carried him
      back all those years to the day when he had shut out Jolyon—shut
      him out for meddling with his affairs.

      “Well,” he said, “what have you to say for yourselves?”

      The fellow had the effrontery to smile.

      “What we have received to-day has taken away your right to ask. I
      should imagine you will be glad to have your neck out of
      chancery.”

      “Oh!” said Soames; “you think so! I came to tell you that I’ll
      divorce her with every circumstance of disgrace to you both,
      unless you swear to keep clear of each other from now on.”

      He was astonished at his fluency, because his mind was stammering
      and his hands twitching. Neither of them answered; but their
      faces seemed to him as if contemptuous.

      “Well,” he said; “you—Irene?”

      Her lips moved, but Jolyon laid his hand on her arm.

      “Let her alone!” said Soames furiously. “Irene, will you swear
      it?”

      “No.”

      “Oh! and you?”

      “Still less.”

      “So then you’re guilty, are you?”

      “Yes, guilty.” It was Irene speaking in that serene voice, with
      that unreached air which had maddened him so often; and, carried
      beyond himself, he cried:

      “_You_ are a devil.”

      “Go out! Leave this house, or I’ll do you an injury.”

      That fellow to talk of injuries! Did he know how near his throat
      was to being scragged?

      “A trustee,” he said, “embezzling trust property! A thief,
      stealing his cousin’s wife.”

      “Call me what you like. You have chosen your part, we have chosen
      ours. Go out!”

      If he had brought a weapon Soames might have used it at that
      moment.

      “I’ll make you pay!” he said.

      “I shall be very happy.”

      At that deadly turning of the meaning of his speech by the son of
      him who had nicknamed him “the man of property,” Soames stood
      glaring. It was ridiculous!

      There they were, kept from violence by some secret force. No blow
      possible, no words to meet the case. But he could not, did not
      know how to turn and go away. His eyes fastened on Irene’s
      face—the last time he would ever see that fatal face—the last
      time, no doubt!

      “You,” he said suddenly, “I hope you’ll treat him as you treated
      me—that’s all.”

      He saw her wince, and with a sensation not quite triumph, not
      quite relief, he wrenched open the door, passed out through the
      hall, and got into his cab. He lolled against the cushion with
      his eyes shut. Never in his life had he been so near to murderous
      violence, never so thrown away the restraint which was his second
      nature. He had a stripped and naked feeling, as if all virtue had
