
“Excuse me?” 

“Where’s Luna?” 

Xenophilius halted on the top step. 

“I — I’ve already told you. She is down at Bottom 
Bridge, fishing for Plimpies.” 

“So why have you only laid that tray for four?” 

Xenophilius tried to speak, but no sound came out. 
The only noise was the continued chugging of the 
printing press, and a slight rattle from the tray as 
Xenophilius ’s hands shook. 

“I don’t think Luna’s been here for weeks,” said Harry. 
“Her clothes are gone, her bed hasn’t been slept in. 
Where is she? And why do you keep looking out of the 
window?” 

Xenophilius dropped the tray: The bowls bounced and 
smashed. Harry, Ron, and Hermione drew their 
wands: Xenophilius froze, his hand about to enter his 
pocket. At that moment the printing press gave a 
huge bang and numerous Quibblers came streaming 
across the floor from underneath the tablecloth; the 
press fell silent at last. 

Hermione stooped down and picked up one of the 
magazines, her wand still pointing at Mr. Lovegood. 



Page | 472 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, look at this.” 



He strode over to her as quickly as he could through 
all the clutter. The front of The Quibbler carried his 
own picture, emblazoned with the words 
UNDESIRABLE NUMBER ONE and captioned with 
the reward money. 

“The Quibbler’s going for a new angle, then?” Harry 
asked coldly, his mind working very fast. “Is that 
what you were doing when you went into the garden, 
Mr. Lovegood? Sending an owl to the Ministry?” 

Xenophilius licked his lips. 

“They took my Luna,” he whispered. “Because of what 
I’ve been writing. They took my Luna and I don’t know 
where she is, what they’ve done to her. But they 
might give her back to me if I — if I — ” 

“Hand over Harry?” Hermione finished for him. 

“No deal,” said Ron flatly. “Get out of the way, we’re 
leaving.” 

Xenophilius looked ghastly, a century old, his lips 
drawn back into a dreadful leer. 

“They will be here at any moment. I must save Luna. I 
cannot lose Luna. You must not leave.” 

He spread his arms in front of the staircase, and 
Harry had a sudden vision of his mother doing the 
same thing in front of his crib. 

“Don’t make us hurt you,” Harry said. “Get out of the 
way, Mr. Lovegood.” 

“HARRY!” Hermione screamed. 

Page | 473 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Figures on broomsticks were flying past the windows. 
As the three of them looked away from him, 
Xenophilius drew his wand. Harry realized their 
mistake just in time: He launched himself sideways, 
shoving Ron and Hermione out of harm’s way as 
Xenophilius’s Stunning Spell soared across the room 
and hit the Erumpent horn. 

There was a colossal explosion. The sound of it 
seemed to blow the room apart: Fragments of wood 
and paper and rubble flew in all directions, along with 
an impenetrable cloud of thick white dust. Harry flew 
through the air, then crashed to the floor, unable to 
see as debris rained upon him, his arms over his 
head. He heard Hermione’s scream, Ron’s yell, and a 
series of sickening metallic thuds, which told him 
that Xenophilius had been blasted off his feet and 
fallen backward down the spiral stairs. 

Half buried in rubble, Harry tried to raise himself: He 
could barely breathe or see for dust. Half of the 
ceiling had fallen in, and the end of Luna’s bed was 
hanging through the hole. The bust of Rowena 
Ravenclaw lay beside him with half its face missing, 
fragments of torn parchment were floating through 
the air, and most of the printing press lay on its side, 
blocking the top of the staircase to the kitchen. Then 
another white shape moved close by, and Hermione, 
coated in dust like a second statue, pressed her finger 
to her lips. 

The door downstairs crashed open. 

“Didn’t I tell you there was no need to hurry, 

Travers?” said a rough voice. “Didn’t 1 tell you this 
nutter was just raving as usual?” 

There was a bang and a scream of pain from 
Xenophilius. 

Page | 474 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No ... no ... upstairs ... Potter!” 

“I told you last week, Lovegood, we weren’t coming 
back for anything less than some solid information! 
Remember last week? When you wanted to swap your 
daughter for that stupid bleeding headdress? And the 
week before” — another bang, another squeal — 
“when you thought we’d give her back if you offered 
us proof there are Crumple” — bang — “Headed” — 
bang — “Snorkacks?” 

“No — no — I beg you!” sobbed Xenophilius. “It really 
is Potter! Really!” 

“And now it turns out you only called us here to try 
and blow us up!” roared the Death Eater, and there 
was a volley of bangs interspersed with squeals of 
agony from Xenophilius. 

“The place looks like it’s about to fall in, Selwyn,” said 
a cool second voice, echoing up the mangled 
staircase. “The stairs are completely blocked. Could 
try clearing it? Might bring the place down.” 

“You lying piece of filth,” shouted the wizard named 
Selwyn. “You’ve never seen Potter in your life, have 
you? Thought you’d lure us here to kill us, did you? 
And you think you’ll get your girl back like this?” 

“I swear ... I swear ... Potter’s upstairs!” 

“Homenum revelio,” said the voice at the foot of the 
stairs. 

Harry heard Hermione gasp, and he had the odd 
sensation that something was swooping low over him, 
immersing his body in its shadow. 



Page | 475 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s someone up there all right, Selwyn,” said the 
second man sharply. 



“It’s Potter, I tell you, it’s Potter!” sobbed Xenophilius. 
“Please ... please ... give me Luna, just let me have 
Luna. ...” 

“You can have your little girl, Lovegood,” said Selwyn, 
“if you get up those stairs and bring me down Harry 
Potter. But if this is a plot, if it’s a trick, if you’ve got 
an accomplice waiting up there to ambush us, we’ll 
see if we can spare a bit of your daughter for you to 
bury.” 

Xenophilius gave a wail of fear and despair. There 
were scurryings and scrapings: Xenophilius was 
trying to get through the debris on the stairs. 

“Come on,” Harry whispered, “we’ve got to get out of 
here.” 

He started to dig himself out under cover of all the 
noise Xenophilius was making on the staircase. Ron 
was buried deepest: Harry and Hermione climbed, as 
quietly as they could, over all the wreckage to where 
he lay, trying to prise a heavy chest of drawers off his 
legs. While Xenophilius ’s banging and scraping drew 
nearer and nearer, Hermione managed to free Ron 
with the use of a Hover Charm. 

“All right,” breathed Hermione, as the broken printing 
press blocking the top of the stairs began to tremble; 
Xenophilius was feet away from them. She was still 
white with dust. “Do you trust me, Harry?” 

Harry nodded. 

“Okay then,” Hermione whispered, “give me the 
Invisibility Cloak. Ron, you’re going to put it on.” 

Page | 476 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Me? But Harry — ” 



“Please, Ron\ Harry, hold on tight to my hand, Ron, 
grab my shoulder.” 

Harry held out his left hand. Ron vanished beneath 
the Cloak. The printing press blocking the stairs was 
vibrating: Xenophilius was trying to shift it using a 
Hover Charm. Harry did not know what Hermione 
was waiting for. 

“Hold tight,” she whispered. “Hold tight ... any second 



Xenophilius’s paper- white face appeared over the top 
of the sideboard. 

“Obliviate\” cried Hermione, pointing her wand first 
into his face, then at the floor beneath them. 
“Deprimo\” 

She had blasted a hole in the sitting room floor. They 
fell like boulders, Harry still holding onto her hand for 
dear life; there was a scream from below, and he 
glimpsed two men trying to get out of the way as vast 
quantities of rubble and broken furniture rained all 
around them from the shattered ceiling. Hermione 
twisted in midair and the thundering of the collapsing 
house rang in Harry’s ears as she dragged him once 
more into darkness. 



Page | 477 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE DEATHLY HALLOWS 

Harry fell, panting, onto grass and scrambled up at 
once. They seemed to have landed in the corner of a 
field at dusk; Hermione was already running in a 
circle around them, waving her wand. 

“Protego Totalum ... Salvio Hexia ...” 

“That treacherous old bleeder!” Ron panted, emerging 
from beneath the Invisibility Cloak and throwing it to 
Harry. “Hermione, you’re a genius, a total genius, I 
can’t believe we got out of that!” 

“ Cave Inimicum ... Didn’t I say it was an Erumpent 
horn, didn’t I tell him? And now his house has been 
blown apart!” 

“Serves him right,” said Ron, examining his torn jeans 
and the cuts to his legs. “What d’you reckon they’ll do 
to him?” 

“Oh, I hope they don’t kill him!” groaned Hermione. 
“That’s why I wanted the Death Eaters to get a 



Page | 478 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



glimpse of Harry before we left, so they knew 
Xenophilius hadn’t been lying!” 



“Why hide me, though?” asked Ron. 

“You’re supposed to be in bed with spattergroit, Ron! 
They’ve kidnapped Luna because her father 
supported Harry! What would happen to your family if 
they knew you’re with him?” 

“But what about your mum and dad?” 

“They’re in Australia,” said Hermione. “They should 
be all right. They don’t know anything.” 

“You’re a genius,” Ron repeated, looking awed. 

“Yeah, you are, Hermione,” agreed Harry fervently. “I 
don’t know what we’d do without you.” 

She beamed, but became solemn at once. 

“What about Luna?” 

“Well, if they’re telling the truth and she’s still alive — 
” began Ron. 

“Don’t say that, don’t say it!” squealed Hermione. 

“She must be alive, she must!” 

“Then she’ll be in Azkaban, I expect,” said Ron. 
“Whether she survives the place, though ... Loads 
don’t. ...” 

“She will,” said Harry. He could not bear to 
contemplate the alternative. “She’s tough, Luna, 
much tougher than you’d think. She’s probably 
teaching all the inmates about Wrackspurts and 
Nargles.” 

Page | 479 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I hope you’re right,” said Hermione. She passed a 
hand over her eyes. “I’d feel so sorry for Xenophilius if 



“ — if he hadn’t just tried to sell us to the Death 
Eaters, yeah,” said Ron. 

They put up the tent and retreated inside it, where 
Ron made them tea. After their narrow escape, the 
chilly, musty old place felt like home: safe, familiar, 
and friendly. 

“Oh, why did we go there?” groaned Hermione after a 
few minutes’ silence. “Harry, you were right, it was 
Godric’s Hollow all over again, a complete waste of 
time! The Deathly Hallows ... such rubbish ... 
although actually,” a sudden thought seemed to have 
struck her, “he might have made it all up, mightn’t 
he? He probably doesn’t believe in the Deathly 
Hallows at all, he just wanted to keep us talking until 
the Death Eaters arrived!” 

“I don’t think so,” said Ron. “It’s a damn sight harder 
making stuff up when you’re under stress than you’d 
think. I found that out when the Snatchers caught 
me. It was much easier pretending to be Stan, 
because I knew a bit about him, than inventing a 
whole new person. Old Lovegood was under loads of 
pressure, trying to make sure we stayed put. I reckon 
he told us the truth, or what he thinks is the truth, 
just to keep us talking.” 

“Well, I don’t suppose it matters,” sighed Hermione. 
“Even if he was being honest, I never heard such a lot 
of nonsense in all my life.” 

“Hang on, though,” said Ron. “The Chamber of 
Secrets was supposed to be a myth, wasn’t it?” 



Page | 480 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But the Deathly Hallows can’t exist, Ron!” 



“You keep saying that, but one of them can,” said 
Ron. “Harry’s Invisibility Cloak — ” 

“ The Tale of the Three Brothers’ is a story,” said 
Hermione firmly. “A story about how humans are 
frightened of death. If surviving was as simple as 
hiding under the Invisibility Cloak, we’d have 
everything we need already!” 

“I don’t know. We could do with an unbeatable wand,” 
said Harry, turning the blackthorn wand he so 
disliked over in his fingers. 

“There’s no such thing, Harry!” 

“You said there have been loads of wands — the 
Deathstick and whatever they were called — ” 

“All right, even if you want to kid yourself the Elder 
Wand’s real, what about the Resurrection Stone?” Her 
fingers sketched quotation marks around the name, 
and her tone dripped sarcasm. “No magic can raise 
the dead, and that’s that!” 

“When my wand connected with You-Know-Who’s, it 
made my mum and dad appear ... and Cedric ...” 

“But they weren’t really back from the dead, were 
they?” said Hermione. “Those kinds of — of pale 
imitations aren’t the same as truly bringing someone 
back to life.” 

“But she, the girl in the tale, didn’t really come back, 
did she? The story says that once people are dead, 
they belong with the dead. But the second brother 
still got to see her and talk to her, didn’t he? He even 
lived with her for a while. ...” 

Page | 481 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He saw concern and something less easily definable 
in Hermione’s expression. Then, as she glanced at 
Ron, Harry realized that it was fear: He had scared 
her with his talk of living with dead people. 

“So that Peverell bloke who’s buried in Godric’s 
Hollow,” he said hastily, trying to sound robustly 
sane, “you don’t know anything about him, then?” 

“No,” she replied, looking relieved at the change of 
subject. “I looked him up after I saw the mark on his 
grave; if he’d been anyone famous or done anything 
important, I’m sure he’d be in one of our books. The 
only place I’ve managed to find the name ‘Peverell’ is 
Nature’s Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. I borrowed 
it from Kreacher,” she explained as Ron raised his 
eyebrows. “It lists the pure-blood families that are 
now extinct in the male line. Apparently the Peverells 
were one of the earliest families to vanish.” 

“ ‘Extinct in the male line’?” repeated Ron. 

“It means the name’s died out,” said Hermione, 
“centuries ago, in the case of the Peverells. They could 
still have descendants, though, they’d just be called 
something different.” 

And then it came to Harry in one shining piece, the 
memory that had stirred at the sound of the name 
“Peverell”: a filthy old man brandishing an ugly ring 
in the face of a Ministry official, and he cried aloud, 
“Marvolo Gaunt!” 

“Sorry?” said Ron and Hermione together. 

“Marvolo Gaunti You -Know- Who’s grandfather! In the 
Pensieve! With Dumbledore! Marvolo Gaunt said he 
was descended from the Peverells!” 



Page | 482 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron and Hermione looked bewildered. 



“The ring, the ring that became the Horcrux, Marvolo 
Gaunt said it had the Peverell coat of arms on it! I 
saw him waving it in the bloke from the Ministry’s 
face, he nearly shoved it up his nose!” 

“The Peverell coat of arms?” said Hermione sharply. 
“Could you see what it looked like?” 

“Not really,” said Harry, trying to remember. “There 
was nothing fancy on there, as far as I could see; 
maybe a few scratches. I only ever saw it really close 
up after it had been cracked open.” 

Harry saw Hermione ’s comprehension in the sudden 
widening of her eyes. Ron was looking from one to the 
other, astonished. 

“Blimey ... You reckon it was this sign again? The 
sign of the Hallows?” 

“Why not?” said Harry excitedly. “Marvolo Gaunt was 
an ignorant old git who lived like a pig, all he cared 
about was his ancestry. If that ring had been passed 
down through the centuries, he might not have 
known what it really was. There were no books in that 
house, and trust me, he wasn’t the type to read fairy 
tales to his kids. He’d have loved to think the 
scratches on the stone were a coat of arms, because 
as far as he was concerned, having pure blood made 
you practically royal.” 

“Yes ... and that’s all very interesting,” said Hermione 
cautiously, “but Harry, if you’re thinking what I think 
you’re think — ” 



Page | 483 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, why not? Why not?” said Harry, abandoning 
caution. “It was a stone, wasn’t it?” He looked at Ron 
for support. “What if it was the Resurrection Stone?” 

Ron’s mouth fell open. 

“Blimey — but would it still work if Dumbledore broke 
— ?” 

“Work? Work? Ron, it never worked! There’s no such 
thing as a Resurrection Stone\” 

Hermione had leapt to her feet, looking exasperated 
and angry. “Harry, you’re trying to fit everything into 
the Hallows story — ” 

“Fit everything in?” he repeated. “Hermione, it fits of 
its own accord! I know the sign of the Deathly Hallows 
was on that stone! Gaunt said he was descended from 
the Peverells!” 

“A minute ago you told us you never saw the mark on 
the stone properly!” 

“Where d’you reckon the ring is now?” Ron asked 
Harry. “What did Dumbledore do with it after he 
broke it open?” 

But Harry’s imagination was racing ahead, far beyond 
Ron and Hermione ’s. ... 

Three objects, or Hallows, which, if united, will make 
the possessor master of Death . . . Master . . . Conqueror 
... Vanquisher ... The last enemy that shall be 
destroyed is death. . . . 

And he saw himself, possessor of the Hallows, facing 
Voldemort, whose Horcruxes were no match ... 

Neither can live while the other survives. ... Was this 

Page | 484 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the answer? Hallows versus Horcruxes? Was there a 
way, after all, to ensure that he was the one who 
triumphed? If he were the master of the Deathly 
Hallows, would he be safe? 

“Harry?” 

But he scarcely heard Hermione: He had pulled out 
his Invisibility Cloak and was running it through his 
fingers, the cloth supple as water, light as air. He had 
never seen anything to equal it in his nearly seven 
years in the Wizarding world. The Cloak was exactly 
what Xenophilius had described: A cloak that really 
and truly renders the wearer completely invisible, and 
endures eternally, giving constant and impenetrable 
concealment, no matter what spells are cast at it ... 

And then, with a gasp, he remembered — 

“Dumbledore had my Cloak the night my parents 
died!” 

His voice shook and he could feel the color in his face, 
but he did not care. 

“My mum told Sirius that Dumbledore borrowed the 
Cloak! This is why! He wanted to examine it, because 
he thought it was the third Hallow! Ignotus Peverell is 
buried in Godric’s Hollow. ...” Harry was walking 
blindly around the tent, feeling as though great new 
vistas of truth were opening all around him. “He’s my 
ancestor! I’m descended from the third brother! It all 
makes sense!” 

He felt armed in certainty, in his belief in the Hallows, 
as if the mere idea of possessing them was giving him 
protection, and he felt joyous as he turned back to 
the other two. 



Page | 485 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry,” said Hermione again, but he was busy 
undoing the pouch around his neck, his fingers 
shaking hard. 

“Read it,” he told her, pushing his mother’s letter into 
her hand. “Read it! Dumbledore had the Cloak, 
Hermione! Why else would he want it? He didn’t need 
a Cloak, he could perform a Disillusionment Charm 
so powerful that he made himself completely invisible 
without one!” 

Something fell to the floor and rolled, glittering, under 
a chair: He had dislodged the Snitch when he pulled 
out the letter. He stooped to pick it up, and then the 
newly tapped spring of fabulous discoveries threw 
him another gift, and shock and wonder erupted 
inside him so that he shouted out. 

“IT’S IN HERE! He left me the ring — it’s in the 
Snitch!” 

“You — you reckon?” 

He could not understand why Ron looked taken 
aback. It was so obvious, so clear to Harry: 

Everything fit, everything. . . . His Cloak was the third 
Hallow, and when he discovered how to open the 
Snitch he would have the second, and then all he 
needed to do was find the first Hallow, the Elder 
Wand, and then — 

But it was as though a curtain fell on a lit stage: All 
his excitement, all his hope and happiness were 
extinguished at a stroke, and he stood alone in the 
darkness, and the glorious spell was broken. 

“That’s what he’s after.” 



Page | 486 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The change in his voice made Ron and Hermione look 
even more scared. 

“You-Know-Who’s after the Elder Wand.” 

He turned his back on their strained, incredulous 
faces. He knew it was the truth. It all made sense. 
Voldemort was not seeking a new wand; he was 
seeking an old wand, a very old wand indeed. Harry 
walked to the entrance of the tent, forgetting about 
Ron and Hermione as he looked out into the night, 
thinking. ... 

Voldemort had been raised in a Muggle orphanage. 
Nobody could have told him The Tales of Beedle the 
Bard when he was a child, any more than Harry had 
heard them. Hardly any wizards believed in the 
Deathly Hallows. Was it likely that Voldemort knew 
about them? 

Harry gazed into the darkness. ... If Voldemort had 
known about the Deathly Hallows, surely he would 
have sought them, done anything to possess them: 
three objects that made the possessor master of 
Death? If he had known about the Deathly Hallows, 
he might not have needed Horcruxes in the first 
place. Didn’t the simple fact that he had taken a 
Hallow, and turned it into a Horcrux, demonstrate 
that he did not know this last great Wizarding secret? 

Which meant that Voldemort sought the Elder Wand 
without realizing its full power, without 
understanding that it was one of three . . . for the 
wand was the Hallow that could not be hidden, whose 
existence was best known. ... The bloody trail of the 
Elder Wand is splattered across the pages of 
Wizarding history . . . 



Page | 487 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry watched the cloudy sky, curves of smoke-gray 
and silver sliding over the face of the white moon. He 
felt lightheaded with amazement at his discoveries. 

He turned back into the tent. It was a shock to see 
Ron and Hermione standing exactly where he had left 
them, Hermione still holding Lily’s letter, Ron at her 
side looking slightly anxious. Didn’t they realize how 
far they had traveled in the last few minutes? 

“This is it,” Harry said, trying to bring them inside the 
glow of his own astonished certainty. “This explains 
everything. The Deathly Hallows are real, and I’ve got 
one — maybe two — ” 

He held up the Snitch. 

“ — and You-Know-Who’s chasing the third, but he 
doesn’t realize ... he just thinks it’s a powerful wand 



“Harry,” said Hermione, moving across to him and 
handing him back Lily’s letter, “I’m sorry, but I think 
you’ve got this wrong, all wrong.” 

“But don’t you see? It all fits — ” 

“No, it doesn’t,” she said. “It doesn’t , Harry, you’re 
just getting carried away. Please,” she said as he 
started to speak, “please just answer me this: If the 
Deathly Hallows really existed, and Dumbledore knew 
about them, knew that the person who possessed all 
three of them would be master of Death — Harry, why 
wouldn’t he have told you? Why?” 

He had his answer ready. 

“But you said it, Hermione! You’ve got to find out 
about them for yourself! It’s a Quest!” 

Page | 488 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




“But I only said that to try and persuade you to come 
to the Lovegoods’!” cried Hermione in exasperation. “I 
didn’t really believe it!” 

Harry took no notice. 

“Dumbledore usually let me find out stuff for myself. 
He let me try my strength, take risks. This feels like 
the kind of thing he’d do.” 

“Harry, this isn’t a game, this isn’t practice! This is 
the real thing, and Dumbledore left you very clear 
instructions: Find and destroy the Horcruxes! That 
symbol doesn’t mean anything, forget the Deathly 
Hallows, we can’t afford to get sidetracked — ” 

Harry was barely listening to her. He was turning the 
Snitch over and over in his hands, half expecting it to 
break open, to reveal the Resurrection Stone, to prove 
to Hermione that he was right, that the Deathly 
Hallows were real. 

She appealed to Ron. 

“You don’t believe in this, do you?” 

Harry looked up. Ron hesitated. 

“I dunno ... I mean ... bits of it sort of fit together,” 
said Ron awkwardly. “But when you look at the whole 
thing ...” He took a deep breath. “I think we’re 
supposed to get rid of Horcruxes, Harry. That’s what 
Dumbledore told us to do. Maybe ... maybe we should 
forget about this Hallows business.” 

“Thank you, Ron,” said Hermione. “I’ll take first 
watch.” 



Page | 489 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




And she strode past Harry and sat down in the tent 
entrance, bringing the action to a fierce full stop. 

But Harry hardly slept that night. The idea of the 
Deathly Hallows had taken possession of him, and he 
could not rest while agitating thoughts whirled 
through his mind: the wand, the stone, and the 
Cloak, if he could just possess them all. ... 

I open at the close. ... But what was ‘the close’? Why 
couldn’t he have the stone now? If only he had the 
stone, he could ask Dumbledore these questions in 
person . . . and Harry murmured words to the Snitch 
in the darkness, trying everything, even Parseltongue, 
but the golden ball would not open. ... 

And the wand, the Elder Wand, where was that 
hidden? Where was Voldemort searching now? Harry 
wished his scar would burn and show him 
Voldemort’s thoughts, because for the first time ever, 
he and Voldemort were united in wanting the very 
same thing. . . . Hermione would not like that idea, of 
course. ... But then, she did not believe ... 

Xenophilius had been right, in a way . . . Limited. 
Narrow. Close-minded. The truth was that she was 
scared of the idea of the Deathly Hallows, especially of 
the Resurrection Stone ... and Harry pressed his 
mouth again to the Snitch, kissing it, nearly 
swallowing it, but the cold metal did not yield. ... 

It was nearly dawn when he remembered Luna, alone 
in a cell in Azkaban, surrounded by dementors, and 
he suddenly felt ashamed of himself. He had forgotten 
all about her in his feverish contemplation of the 
Hallows. If only they could rescue her; but dementors 
in those numbers would be virtually unassailable. 

Now he came to think about it, he had not yet tried 
casting a Patronus with the blackthorn wand. ... He 
must try that in the morning. . . . 

Page | 490 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




If only there was a way of getting a better wand . . . 

And desire for the Elder Wand, the Deathstick, 
unbeatable, invincible, swallowed him once more. ... 

They packed up the tent next morning and moved on 
through a dreary shower of rain. The downpour 
pursued them to the coast, where they pitched the 
tent that night, and persisted through the whole 
week, through sodden landscapes that Harry found 
bleak and depressing. He could think only of the 
Deathly Hallows. It was as though a flame had been 
lit inside him that nothing, not Hermione ’s flat 
disbelief nor Ron’s persistent doubts, could 
extinguish. And yet the fiercer the longing for the 
Hallows burned inside him, the less joyful it made 
him. He blamed Ron and Hermione: Their determined 
indifference was as bad as the relentless rain for 
dampening his spirits, but neither could erode his 
certainty, which remained absolute. Harry’s belief in 
and longing for the Hallows consumed him so much 
that he felt quite isolated from the other two and their 
obsession with the Horcruxes. 

“Obsession?” said Hermione in a low fierce voice, 
when Harry was careless enough to use the word one 
evening, after Hermione had told him off for his lack 
of interest in locating more Horcruxes. “We’re not the 
ones with an obsession, Harry! We’re the ones trying 
to do what Dumbledore wanted us to do!” 

But he was impervious to the veiled criticism. 
Dumbledore had left the sign of the Hallows for 
Hermione to decipher, and he had also, Harry 
remained convinced of it, left the Resurrection Stone 
hidden in the golden Snitch. Neither can live while the 
other survives. ... master of Death ... Why didn’t Ron 
and Hermione understand? 



Page | 491 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ ‘The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death,’ ” 
Harry quoted calmly. 

“I thought it was You-Know-Who we were supposed to 
be fighting?” Hermione retorted, and Harry gave up 
on her. 

Even the mystery of the silver doe, which the other 
two insisted on discussing, seemed less important to 
Harry now, a vaguely interesting sideshow. The only 
other thing that mattered to him was that his scar 
had begun to prickle again, although he did all he 
could to hide this fact from the other two. He sought 
solitude whenever it happened, but was disappointed 
by what he saw. The visions he and Voldemort were 
sharing had changed in quality; they had become 
blurred, shifting as though they were moving in and 
out of focus. Harry was just able to make out the 
indistinct features of an object that looked like a 
skull, and something like a mountain that was more 
shadow than substance. Used to images sharp as 
reality, Harry was disconcerted by the change. He was 
worried that the connection between himself and 
Voldemort had been damaged, a connection that he 
both feared and, whatever he had told Hermione, 
prized. Somehow Harry connected these unsatisfying, 
vague images with the destruction of his wand, as if it 
was the blackthorn wand’s fault that he could no 
longer see into Voldemort’s mind as well as before. 

As the weeks crept on, Harry could not help but 
notice, even through his new self-absorption, that 
Ron seemed to be taking charge. Perhaps because he 
was determined to make up for having walked out on 
them, perhaps because Harry’s descent into 
listlessness galvanized his dormant leadership 
qualities, Ron was the one now encouraging and 
exhorting the other two into action. 



Page | 492 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Three Horcruxes left,” he kept saying. “We need a 
plan of action, come on! Where haven’t we looked? 
Let’s go through it again. The orphanage ...” 

Diagon Alley, Hogwarts, the Riddle House, Borgin and 
Burkes, Albania, every place that they knew Tom 
Riddle had ever lived or worked, visited or murdered, 
Ron and Hermione raked over them again, Harry 
joining in only to stop Hermione pestering him. He 
would have been happy to sit alone in silence, trying 
to read Voldemort’s thoughts, to find out more about 
the Elder Wand, but Ron insisted on journeying to 
ever more unlikely places simply, Harry was aware, to 
keep them moving. 

“You never know,” was Ron’s constant refrain. “Upper 
Flagley is a Wizarding village, he might’ve wanted to 
live there. Let’s go and have a poke around.” 

These frequent forays into Wizarding territory brought 
them within occasional sight of Snatchers. 

“Some of them are supposed to be as bad as Death 
Eaters,” said Ron. “The lot that got me were a bit 
pathetic, but Bill reckons some of them are really 
dangerous. They said on Potterwatch — ” 

“On what?” said Harry. 

“ Potterwatch , didn’t I tell you that’s what it was 
called? The program I keep trying to get on the radio, 
the only one that tells the truth about what’s going 
on! Nearly all the programs are following You-Know- 
Who’s line, all except Potterwatch. I really want you to 
hear it, but it’s tricky tuning in. ...” 

Ron spent evening after evening using his wand to 
beat out various rhythms on top of the wireless while 
the dials whirled. Occasionally they would catch 

Page | 493 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




snatches of advice on how to treat dragon pox, and 
once a few bars of “A Cauldron Full of Hot Strong 
Love.” While he tapped, Ron continued to try to hit on 
the correct password, muttering strings of random 
words under his breath. 

“They’re normally something to do with the Order,” he 
told them. “Bill had a real knack for guessing them. 
I’m bound to get one in the end. ...” 
