      five-pointed star, made of eleven diamonds. Swithin looked at the
      star. He had a pretty taste in stones; no question could have
      been more sympathetically devised to distract his attention.

      “Who gave you that?” he asked.

      “Soames.”

      There was no change in her face, but Swithin’s pale eyes bulged
      as though he might suddenly have been afflicted with insight.

      “I dare say you’re dull at home,” he said. “Any day you like to
      come and dine with me, I’ll give you as good a bottle of wine as
      you’ll get in London.”

      “Miss June Forsyte—Mr. Jolyon Forsyte!... Mr. Boswainey!...”

      Swithin moved his arm, and said in a rumbling voice:

      “Dinner, now—dinner!”

      He took in Irene, on the ground that he had not entertained her
      since she was a bride. June was the portion of Bosinney, who was
      placed between Irene and his fiancée. On the other side of June
      was James with Mrs. Nicholas, then old Jolyon with Mrs. James,
      Nicholas with Hatty Chessman, Soames with Mrs. Small, completing,
      the circle to Swithin again.

      Family dinners of the Forsytes observe certain traditions. There
      are, for instance, no _hors d’œuvres_. The reason for this is
      unknown. Theory among the younger members traces it to the
      disgraceful price of oysters; it is more probably due to a desire
      to come to the point, to a good practical sense deciding at once
      that _hors d’œuvres_ are but poor things. The Jameses alone,
      unable to withstand a custom almost universal in Park Lane, are
      now and then unfaithful.

      A silent, almost morose, inattention to each other succeeds to
      the subsidence into their seats, lasting till well into the first
      entree, but interspersed with remarks such as, “Tom’s bad again;
      I can’t tell what’s the matter with him!” “I suppose Ann doesn’t
      come down in the mornings?”—“What’s the name of your doctor,
      Fanny?” “Stubbs?” “He’s a quack!”—“Winifred? She’s got too many
      children. Four, isn’t it? She’s as thin as a lath!”—“What d’you
      give for this sherry, Swithin? Too dry for me!”

      With the second glass of champagne, a kind of hum makes itself
      heard, which, when divested of casual accessories and resolved
      into its primal element, is found to be James telling a story,
      and this goes on for a long time, encroaching sometimes even upon
      what must universally be recognised as the crowning point of a
      Forsyte feast—“the saddle of mutton.”

      No Forsyte has given a dinner without providing a saddle of
      mutton. There is something in its succulent solidity which makes
      it suitable to people “of a certain position.” It is nourishing
      and tasty; the sort of thing a man remembers eating. It has a
      past and a future, like a deposit paid into a bank; and it is
      something that can be argued about.

      Each branch of the family tenaciously held to a particular
      locality—old Jolyon swearing by Dartmoor, James by Welsh, Swithin
      by Southdown, Nicholas maintaining that people might sneer, but
      there was nothing like New Zealand! As for Roger, the “original”
      of the brothers, he had been obliged to invent a locality of his
      own, and with an ingenuity worthy of a man who had devised a new
      profession for his sons, he had discovered a shop where they sold
      German; on being remonstrated with, he had proved his point by
      producing a butcher’s bill, which showed that he paid more than
      any of the others. It was on this occasion that old Jolyon,
      turning to June, had said in one of his bursts of philosophy:

      “You may depend upon it, they’re a cranky lot, the Forsytes—and
      you’ll find it out, as you grow older!”

      Timothy alone held apart, for though he ate saddle of mutton
      heartily, he was, he said, afraid of it.

      To anyone interested psychologically in Forsytes, this great
      saddle-of-mutton trait is of prime importance; not only does it
      illustrate their tenacity, both collectively and as individuals,
      but it marks them as belonging in fibre and instincts to that
      great class which believes in nourishment and flavour, and yields
      to no sentimental craving for beauty.

      Younger members of the family indeed would have done without a
      joint altogether, preferring guinea-fowl, or lobster
      salad—something which appealed to the imagination, and had less
      nourishment—but these were females; or, if not, had been
      corrupted by their wives, or by mothers, who having been forced
      to eat saddle of mutton throughout their married lives, had
      passed a secret hostility towards it into the fibre of their
      sons.

      The great saddle-of-mutton controversy at an end, a Tewkesbury
      ham commenced, together with the least touch of West
      Indian—Swithin was so long over this course that he caused a
      block in the progress of the dinner. To devote himself to it with
      better heart, he paused in his conversation.

      From his seat by Mrs. Septimus Small Soames was watching. He had
      a reason of his own connected with a pet building scheme, for
      observing Bosinney. The architect might do for his purpose; he
      looked clever, as he sat leaning back in his chair, moodily
      making little ramparts with bread-crumbs. Soames noted his dress
      clothes to be well cut, but too small, as though made many years
      ago.

      He saw him turn to Irene and say something and her face sparkle
      as he often saw it sparkle at other people—never at himself. He
      tried to catch what they were saying, but Aunt Juley was
      speaking.

      Hadn’t that always seemed very extraordinary to Soames? Only last
      Sunday dear Mr. Scoles, had been so witty in his sermon, so
      sarcastic, “For what,” he had said, “shall it profit a man if he
      gain his own soul, but lose all his property?” That, he had said,
      was the motto of the middle-class; now, what _had_ he meant by
      that? Of course, it might be what middle-class people
      believed—she didn’t know; what did Soames think?

      He answered abstractedly: “How should I know? Scoles is a humbug,
      though, isn’t he?” For Bosinney was looking round the table, as
      if pointing out the peculiarities of the guests, and Soames
      wondered what he was saying. By her smile Irene was evidently
      agreeing with his remarks. She seemed always to agree with other
      people.

      Her eyes were turned on himself; Soames dropped his glance at
      once. The smile had died off her lips.

      A humbug? But what did Soames mean? If Mr. Scoles was a humbug, a
      clergyman—then anybody might be—it was frightful!

      “Well, and so they are!” said Soames.

      During Aunt Juley’s momentary and horrified silence he caught
      some words of Irene’s that sounded like: “Abandon hope, all ye
      who enter here!”

      But Swithin had finished his ham.

      “Where do you go for your mushrooms?” he was saying to Irene in a
      voice like a courtier’s; “you ought to go to Smileybob’s—he’ll
      give ’em you fresh. These _little_ men, they won’t take the
      trouble!”

      Irene turned to answer him, and Soames saw Bosinney watching her
      and smiling to himself. A curious smile the fellow had. A
      half-simple arrangement, like a child who smiles when he is
      pleased. As for George’s nickname—“The Buccaneer”—he did not
      think much of that. And, seeing Bosinney turn to June, Soames
      smiled too, but sardonically—he did not like June, who was not
      looking too pleased.

      This was not surprising, for she had just held the following
      conversation with James:

      “I stayed on the river on my way home, Uncle James, and saw a
      beautiful site for a house.”

      James, a slow and thorough eater, stopped the process of
      mastication.

      “Eh?” he said. “Now, where was that?”

      “Close to Pangbourne.”

      James placed a piece of ham in his mouth, and June waited.

      “I suppose you wouldn’t know whether the land about there was
      freehold?” he asked at last. “_You_ wouldn’t know anything about
      the price of land about there?”

      “Yes,” said June; “I made inquiries.” Her little resolute face
      under its copper crown was suspiciously eager and aglow.

      James regarded her with the air of an inquisitor.

      “What? You’re not thinking of buying land!” he ejaculated,
      dropping his fork.

      June was greatly encouraged by his interest. It had long been her
      pet plan that her uncles should benefit themselves and Bosinney
      by building country-houses.

      “Of course not,” she said. “I thought it would be such a splendid
      place for—you or—someone to build a country-house!”

      James looked at her sideways, and placed a second piece of ham in
      his mouth....

      “Land ought to be very dear about there,” he said.

      What June had taken for personal interest was only the impersonal
      excitement of every Forsyte who hears of something eligible in
      danger of passing into other hands. But she refused to see the
      disappearance of her chance, and continued to press her point.

      “You ought to go into the country, Uncle James. I wish I had a
      lot of money, I wouldn’t live another day in London.”

      James was stirred to the depths of his long thin figure; he had
      no idea his niece held such downright views.

      “Why don’t you go into the country?” repeated June; “it would do
      you a lot of good.”

      “Why?” began James in a fluster. “Buying land—what good d’you
      suppose I can do buying land, building houses?—I couldn’t get
      four per cent. for my money!”

      “What does that matter? You’d get fresh air.”

      “Fresh air!” exclaimed James; “what should I do with fresh air,”

      “I should have thought anybody liked to have fresh air,” said
      June scornfully.

      James wiped his napkin all over his mouth.

      “You don’t know the value of money,” he said, avoiding her eye.

      “No! and I hope I never shall!” and, biting her lip with
      inexpressible mortification, poor June was silent.

      Why were her own relations so rich, and Phil never knew where the
      money was coming from for to-morrow’s tobacco. Why couldn’t they
      do something for him? But they were so selfish. Why couldn’t they
      build country-houses? She had all that naive dogmatism which is
      so pathetic, and sometimes achieves such great results. Bosinney,
      to whom she turned in her discomfiture, was talking to Irene, and
      a chill fell on Jun’s spirit. Her eyes grew steady with anger,
      like old Jolyon’s when his will was crossed.

      James, too, was much disturbed. He felt as though someone had
      threatened his right to invest his money at five per cent. Jolyon
      had spoiled her. None of _his_ girls would have said such a
      thing. James had always been exceedingly liberal to his children,
      and the consciousness of this made him feel it all the more
      deeply. He trifled moodily with his strawberries, then, deluging
      them with cream, he ate them quickly; they, at all events, should
      not escape him.

      No wonder he was upset. Engaged for fifty-four years (he had been
      admitted a solicitor on the earliest day sanctioned by the law)
      in arranging mortgages, preserving investments at a dead level of
      high and safe interest, conducting negotiations on the principle
      of securing the utmost possible out of other people compatible
      with safety to his clients and himself, in calculations as to the
      exact pecuniary possibilities of all the relations of life, he
      had come at last to think purely in terms of money. Money was now
      his light, his medium for seeing, that without which he was
      really unable to see, really not cognisant of phenomena; and to
      have this thing, “I hope I shall never know the value of money!”
      said to his face, saddened and exasperated him. He knew it to be
      nonsense, or it would have frightened him. What was the world
      coming to! Suddenly recollecting the story of young Jolyon,
      however, he felt a little comforted, for what could you expect
      with a father like that! This turned his thoughts into a channel
      still less pleasant. What was all this talk about Soames and
      Irene?

      As in all self-respecting families, an emporium had been
      established where family secrets were bartered, and family stock
      priced. It was known on Forsyte ’Change that Irene regretted her
      marriage. Her regret was disapproved of. She ought to have known
      her own mind; no dependable woman made these mistakes.

      James reflected sourly that they had a nice house (rather small)
      in an excellent position, no children, and no money troubles.
      Soames was reserved about his affairs, but he must be getting a
      very warm man. He had a capital income from the business—for
      Soames, like his father, was a member of that well-known firm of
      solicitors, Forsyte, Bustard and Forsyte—and had always been very
      careful. He had done quite unusually well with some mortgages he
      had taken up, too—a little timely foreclosure—most lucky hits!

      There was no reason why Irene should not be happy, yet they said
      she’d been asking for a separate room. He knew where that ended.
      It wasn’t as if Soames drank.

      James looked at his daughter-in-law. That unseen glance of his
      was cold and dubious. Appeal and fear were in it, and a sense of
      personal grievance. Why should he be worried like this? It was
      very likely all nonsense; women were funny things! They
      exaggerated so, you didn’t know what to believe; and then, nobody
      told him anything, he had to find out everything for himself.
      Again he looked furtively at Irene, and across from her to
      Soames. The latter, listening to Aunt Juley, was looking up,
      under his brows in the direction of Bosinney.

      “He’s fond of her, I know,” thought James. “Look at the way he’s
      always giving her things.”

      And the extraordinary unreasonableness of her disaffection struck
      him with increased force. It was a pity, too, she was a taking
      little thing, and he, James, would be really quite fond of her if
      she’d only let him. She had taken up lately with June; _that_ was
      doing her no good, that was certainly doing her no good. She was
      getting to have opinions of her own. He didn’t know what she
      wanted with anything of the sort. She’d a good home, and
      everything she could wish for. He felt that her friends ought to
      be chosen for her. To go on like this was dangerous.

      June, indeed, with her habit of championing the unfortunate, had
      dragged from Irene a confession, and, in return, had preached the
      necessity of facing the evil, by separation, if need be. But in
      the face of these exhortations, Irene had kept a brooding
      silence, as though she found terrible the thought of this
      struggle carried through in cold blood. He would never give her
      up, she had said to June.

      “Who cares?” June cried; “let him do what he likes—you’ve only to
      stick to it!” And she had not scrupled to say something of this
      sort at Timothy’s; James, when he heard of it, had felt a natural
      indignation and horror.

      What if Irene were to take it into her head to—he could hardly
      frame the thought—to leave Soames? But he felt this thought so
      unbearable that he at once put it away; the shady visions it
      conjured up, the sound of family tongues buzzing in his ears, the
      horror of the conspicuous happening so close to him, to one of
      his own children! Luckily, she had no money—a beggarly fifty
      pound a year! And he thought of the deceased Heron, who had had
      nothing to leave her, with contempt. Brooding over his glass, his
      long legs twisted under the table, he quite omitted to rise when
      the ladies left the room. He would have to speak to Soames—would
      have to put him on his guard; they could not go on like this, now
      that such a contingency had occurred to him. And he noticed with
      sour disfavour that June had left her wine-glasses full of wine.

      “That little, thing’s at the bottom of it all,” he mused;
      “Irene’d never have thought of it herself.” James was a man of
      imagination.

      The voice of Swithin roused him from his reverie.

      “I gave four hundred pounds for it,” he was saying. “Of course
      it’s a regular work of art.”

      “Four hundred! H’m! that’s a lot of money!” chimed in Nicholas.

      The object alluded to was an elaborate group of statuary in
      Italian marble, which, placed upon a lofty stand (also of
      marble), diffused an atmosphere of culture throughout the room.
      The subsidiary figures, of which there were six, female, nude,
      and of highly ornate workmanship, were all pointing towards the
      central figure, also nude, and female, who was pointing at
      herself; and all this gave the observer a very pleasant sense of
      her extreme value. Aunt Juley, nearly opposite, had had the
      greatest difficulty in not looking at it all the evening.

      Old Jolyon spoke; it was he who had started the discussion.

      “Four hundred fiddlesticks! Don’t tell me you gave four hundred
      for _that?_”

      Between the points of his collar Swithin’s chin made the second
      painful oscillatory movement of the evening.

      “Four-hundred-pounds, of English money; not a farthing less. I
      don’t regret it. It’s not common English—it’s genuine modern
      Italian!”

      Soames raised the corner of his lip in a smile, and looked across
      at Bosinney. The architect was grinning behind the fumes of his
      cigarette. Now, indeed, he looked more like a buccaneer.

      “There’s a lot of work about it,” remarked James hastily, who was
      really moved by the size of the group. “It’d sell well at
      Jobson’s.”

      “The poor foreign dey-vil that made it,” went on Swithin, “asked
      me five hundred—I gave him four. It’s worth eight. Looked
      half-starved, poor dey-vil!”

      “Ah!” chimed in Nicholas suddenly, “poor, seedy-lookin’ chaps,
      these artists; it’s a wonder to me how they live. Now, there’s
      young Flageoletti, that Fanny and the girls are always hav’in’
      in, to play the fiddle; if he makes a hundred a year it’s as much
      as ever he does!”

      James shook his head. “Ah!” he said, “_I_ don’t know how they
      live!”

      Old Jolyon had risen, and, cigar in mouth, went to inspect the
      group at close quarters.

      “Wouldn’t have given two for it!” he pronounced at last.

      Soames saw his father and Nicholas glance at each other
      anxiously; and, on the other side of Swithin, Bosinney, still
      shrouded in smoke.

      “I wonder what _he_ thinks of it?” thought Soames, who knew well
      enough that this group was hopelessly _vieux jeu;_ hopelessly of
      the last generation. There was no longer any sale at Jobson’s for
      such works of art.

      Swithin’s answer came at last. “You never knew anything about a
      statue. You’ve got your pictures, and that’s all!”

      Old Jolyon walked back to his seat, puffing his cigar. It was not
      likely that he was going to be drawn into an argument with an
      obstinate beggar like Swithin, pig-headed as a mule, who had
      never known a statue from a—-straw hat.

      “Stucco!” was all he said.

      It had long been physically impossible for Swithin to start; his
      fist came down on the table.

      “Stucco! I should like to see anything you’ve got in your house
      half as good!”

      And behind his speech seemed to sound again that rumbling
      violence of primitive generations.

      It was James who saved the situation.

      “Now, what do you say, Mr. Bosinney? You’re an architect; you
      ought to know all about statues and things!”

      Every eye was turned upon Bosinney; all waited with a strange,
      suspicious look for his answer.

      And Soames, speaking for the first time, asked:

      “Yes, Bosinney, what do you say?”

      Bosinney replied coolly:

      “The work is a remarkable one.”

      His words were addressed to Swithin, his eyes smiled slyly at old
      Jolyon; only Soames remained unsatisfied.

      “Remarkable for what?”

      “For its naiveté.”

      The answer was followed by an impressive silence; Swithin alone
      was not sure whether a compliment was intended.




      CHAPTER IV PROJECTION OF THE HOUSE

      Soames Forsyte walked out of his green-painted front door three
      days after the dinner at Swithin’s, and looking back from across
      the Square, confirmed his impression that the house wanted
      painting.

      He had left his wife sitting on the sofa in the drawing-room, her
      hands crossed in her lap, manifestly waiting for him to go out.
      This was not unusual. It happened, in fact, every day.

      He could not understand what she found wrong with him. It was not
      as if he drank! Did he run into debt, or gamble, or swear; was he
      violent; were his friends rackety; did he stay out at night? On
      the contrary.

      The profound, subdued aversion which he felt in his wife was a
      mystery to him, and a source of the most terrible irritation.
      That she had made a mistake, and did not love him, had tried to
      love him and could not love him, was obviously no reason.

      He that could imagine so outlandish a cause for his wife’s not
      getting on with him was certainly no Forsyte.

      Soames was forced, therefore, to set the blame entirely down to
      his wife. He had never met a woman so capable of inspiring
      affection. They could not go anywhere without his seeing how all
      the men were attracted by her; their looks, manners, voices,
      betrayed it; her behaviour under this attention had been beyond
      reproach. That she was one of those women—not too common in the
      Anglo-Saxon race—born to be loved and to love, who when not
      loving are not living, had certainly never even occurred to him.
      Her power of attraction, he regarded as part of her value as his
      property; but it made him, indeed, suspect that she could give as
      well as receive; and she gave him nothing! “Then why did she
      marry me?” was his continual thought. He had forgotten his
      courtship; that year and a half when he had besieged and lain in
      wait for her, devising schemes for her entertainment, giving her
      presents, proposing to her periodically, and keeping her other
      admirers away with his perpetual presence. He had forgotten the
      day when, adroitly taking advantage of an acute phase of her
      dislike to her home surroundings, he crowned his labours with
      success. If he remembered anything, it was the dainty
      capriciousness with which the gold-haired, dark-eyed girl had
      treated him. He certainly did not remember the look on her
      face—strange, passive, appealing—when suddenly one day she had
      yielded, and said that she would marry him.

      It had been one of those real devoted wooings which books and
      people praise, when the lover is at length rewarded for hammering
      the iron till it is malleable, and all must be happy ever after
      as the wedding bells.

      Soames walked eastwards, mousing doggedly along on the shady
      side.

      The house wanted doing, up, unless he decided to move into the
      country, and build.

      For the hundredth time that month he turned over this problem.
      There was no use in rushing into things! He was very comfortably
      off, with an increasing income getting on for three thousand a
      year; but his invested capital was not perhaps so large as his
      father believed—James had a tendency to expect that his children
      should be better off than they were. “I can manage eight thousand
      easily enough,” he thought, “without calling in either
      Robertson’s or Nicholl’s.”

      He had stopped to look in at a picture shop, for Soames was an
      “amateur” of pictures, and had a little-room in No. 62,
      Montpellier Square, full of canvases, stacked against the wall,
      which he had no room to hang. He brought them home with him on
      his way back from the City, generally after dark, and would enter
      this room on Sunday afternoons, to spend hours turning the
      pictures to the light, examining the marks on their backs, and
      occasionally making notes.

      They were nearly all landscapes with figures in the foreground, a
      sign of some mysterious revolt against London, its tall houses,
      its interminable streets, where his life and the lives of his
      breed and class were passed. Every now and then he would take one
      or two pictures away with him in a cab, and stop at Jobson’s on
      his way into the City.

      He rarely showed them to anyone; Irene, whose opinion he secretly
      respected and perhaps for that reason never solicited, had only
      been into the room on rare occasions, in discharge of some wifely
      duty. She was not asked to look at the pictures, and she never
      did. To Soames this was another grievance. He hated that pride of
      hers, and secretly dreaded it.

      In the plate-glass window of the picture shop his image stood and
      looked at him.

      His sleek hair under the brim of the tall hat had a sheen like
      the hat itself; his cheeks, pale and flat, the line of his
      clean-shaven lips, his firm chin with its greyish shaven tinge,
      and the buttoned strictness of his black cut-away coat, conveyed
      an appearance of reserve and secrecy, of imperturbable, enforced
      composure; but his eyes, cold,—grey, strained—looking, with a
      line in the brow between them, examined him wistfully, as if they
      knew of a secret weakness.

      He noted the subjects of the pictures, the names of the painters,
      made a calculation of their values, but without the satisfaction
      he usually derived from this inward appraisement, and walked on.

      No. 62 would do well enough for another year, if he decided to
      build! The times were good for building, money had not been so
      dear for years; and the site he had seen at Robin Hill, when he
      had gone down there in the spring to inspect the Nicholl
      mortgage—what could be better! Within twelve miles of Hyde Park
      Corner, the value of the land certain to go up, would always
      fetch more than he gave for it; so that a house, if built in
      really good style, was a first-class investment.

      The notion of being the one member of his family with a country
      house weighed but little with him; for to a true Forsyte,
      sentiment, even the sentiment of social position, was a luxury
      only to be indulged in after his appetite for more material
      pleasure had been satisfied.

      To get Irene out of London, away from opportunities of going
      about and seeing people, away from her friends and those who put
      ideas into her head! That was the thing! She was too thick with
      June! June disliked him. He returned the sentiment. They were of
      the same blood.

      It would be everything to get Irene out of town. The house would
      please her, she would enjoy messing about with the decoration,
      she was very artistic!

      The house must be in good style, something that would always be
      certain to command a price, something unique, like that last
      house of Parkes, which had a tower; but Parkes had himself said
      that his architect was ruinous. You never knew where you were
      with those fellows; if they had a name they ran you into no end
      of expense and were conceited into the bargain.

      And a common architect was no good—the memory of Parkes’ tower
      precluded the employment of a common architect:

      This was why he had thought of Bosinney. Since the dinner at
      Swithin’s he had made enquiries, the result of which had been
      meagre, but encouraging: “One of the new school.”

      “Clever?”

      “As clever as you like—a bit—a bit up in the air!”

      He had not been able to discover what houses Bosinney had built,
      nor what his charges were. The impression he gathered was that he
      would be able to make his own terms. The more he reflected on the
      idea, the more he liked it. It would be keeping the thing in the
      family, with Forsytes almost an instinct; and he would be able to
      get “favoured-nation,” if not nominal terms—only fair,
      considering the chance to Bosinney of displaying his talents, for
      this house must be no common edifice.

      Soames reflected complacently on the work it would be sure to
      bring the young man; for, like every Forsyte, he could be a
      thorough optimist when there was anything to be had out of it.

      Bosinney’s office was in Sloane Street, close at, hand, so that
      he would be able to keep his eye continually on the plans.

      Again, Irene would not be to likely to object to leave London if
      her greatest friend’s lover were given the job. Jun’s marriage
      might depend on it. Irene could not decently stand in the way of
      Jun’s marriage; she would never do that, he knew her too well.
      And June would be pleased; of this he saw the advantage.

      Bosinney looked clever, but he had also—and—it was one of his
      great attractions—an air as if he did not quite know on which
      side his bread were buttered; he should be easy to deal with in
      money matters. Soames made this reflection in no defrauding
      spirit; it was the natural attitude of his mind—of the mind of
      any good business man—of all those thousands of good business men
      through whom he was threading his way up Ludgate Hill.

      Thus he fulfilled the inscrutable laws of his great class—of
      human nature itself—when he reflected, with a sense of comfort,
      that Bosinney would be easy to deal with in money matters.

      While he elbowed his way on, his eyes, which he usually kept
      fixed on the ground before his feet, were attracted upwards by
      the dome of St. Paul’s. It had a peculiar fascination for him,
      that old dome, and not once, but twice or three times a week,
      would he halt in his daily pilgrimage to enter beneath and stop
      in the side aisles for five or ten minutes, scrutinizing the
      names and epitaphs on the monuments. The attraction for him of
      this great church was inexplicable, unless it enabled him to
      concentrate his thoughts on the business of the day. If any
      affair of particular moment, or demanding peculiar acuteness, was
      weighing on his mind, he invariably went in, to wander with
      mouse-like attention from epitaph to epitaph. Then retiring in
      the same noiseless way, he would hold steadily on up Cheapside, a
      thought more of dogged purpose in his gait, as though he had seen
      something which he had made up his mind to buy.

      He went in this morning, but, instead of stealing from monument
      to monument, turned his eyes upwards to the columns and spacings
      of the walls, and remained motionless.

      His uplifted face, with the awed and wistful look which faces
      take on themselves in church, was whitened to a chalky hue in the
      vast building. His gloved hands were clasped in front over the
      handle of his umbrella. He lifted them. Some sacred inspiration
      perhaps had come to him.

      “Yes,” he thought, “I must have room to hang my pictures.”

      That evening, on his return from the City, he called at
      Bosinney’s office. He found the architect in his shirt-sleeves,
      smoking a pipe, and ruling off lines on a plan. Soames refused a
      drink, and came at once to the point.

      “If you’ve nothing better to do on Sunday, come down with me to
      Robin Hill, and give me your opinion on a building site.”

      “Are you going to build?”

      “Perhaps,” said Soames; “but don’t speak of it. I just want your
      opinion.”

      “Quite so,” said the architect.

      Soames peered about the room.

      “You’re rather high up here,” he remarked.

      Any information he could gather about the nature and scope of
      Bosinney’s business would be all to the good.

      “It does well enough for me so far,” answered the architect.
      “You’re accustomed to the swells.”

      He knocked out his pipe, but replaced it empty between his teeth;
      it assisted him perhaps to carry on the conversation. Soames
      noted a hollow in each cheek, made as it were by suction.

      “What do you pay for an office like this?” said he.

      “Fifty too much,” replied Bosinney.

      This answer impressed Soames favourably.

      “I suppose it _is_ dear,” he said. “I’ll call for you—on Sunday
      about eleven.”

      The following Sunday therefore he called for Bosinney in a
      hansom, and drove him to the station. On arriving at Robin Hill,
      they found no cab, and started to walk the mile and a half to the
      site.

      It was the 1st of August—a perfect day, with a burning sun and
      cloudless sky—and in the straight, narrow road leading up the
      hill their feet kicked up a yellow dust.

      “Gravel soil,” remarked Soames, and sideways he glanced at the
      coat Bosinney wore. Into the side-pockets of this coat were
      thrust bundles of papers, and under one arm was carried a
      queer-looking stick. Soames noted these and other peculiarities.

      No one but a clever man, or, indeed, a buccaneer, would have
      taken such liberties with his appearance; and though these
      eccentricities were revolting to Soames, he derived a certain
      satisfaction from them, as evidence of qualities by which he must
      inevitably profit. If the fellow could build houses, what did his
      clothes matter?

      “I told you,” he said, “that I want this house to be a surprise,
      so don’t say anything about it. I never talk of my affairs until
      they’re carried through.”

      Bosinney nodded.

      “Let women into your plans,” pursued Soames, “and you never know
      where it’ll end.”

      “Ah!” Said Bosinney, “women are the devil!”

      This feeling had long been at the bottom of Soames’s heart; he
      had never, however, put it into words.

      “Oh!” he muttered, “so you’re beginning to....” He stopped, but
      added, with an uncontrollable burst of spite: “Jun’s got a temper
      of her own—always had.”

      “A temper’s not a bad thing in an angel.”

      Soames had never called Irene an angel. He could not so have
      violated his best instincts, letting other people into the secret
      of her value, and giving himself away. He made no reply.

      They had struck into a half-made road across a warren. A
      cart-track led at right-angles to a gravel pit, beyond which the
      chimneys of a cottage rose amongst a clump of trees at the border
      of a thick wood. Tussocks of feathery grass covered the rough
      surface of the ground, and out of these the larks soared into the
      haze of sunshine. On the far horizon, over a countless succession
      of fields and hedges, rose a line of downs.

      Soames led till they had crossed to the far side, and there he
      stopped. It was the chosen site; but now that he was about to
      divulge the spot to another he had become uneasy.

      “The agent lives in that cottage,” he said; “he’ll give us some
      lunch—we’d better have lunch before we go into this matter.”

      He again took the lead to the cottage, where the agent, a tall
      man named Oliver, with a heavy face and grizzled beard, welcomed
      them. During lunch, which Soames hardly touched, he kept looking
      at Bosinney, and once or twice passed his silk handkerchief
      stealthily over his forehead. The meal came to an end at last,
      and Bosinney rose.

      “I dare say you’ve got business to talk over,” he said; “I’ll
      just go and nose about a bit.” Without waiting for a reply he
      strolled out.

      Soames was solicitor to this estate, and he spent nearly an hour
      in the agent’s company, looking at ground-plans and discussing
      the Nicholl and other mortgages; it was as it were by an
      afterthought that he brought up the question of the building
      site.

      “Your people,” he said, “ought to come down in their price to me,
      considering that I shall be the first to build.”

      Oliver shook his head.

      The site you’ve fixed on, Sir, he said, “is the cheapest we’ve
      got. Sites at the top of the slope are dearer by a good bit.”

      “Mind,” said Soames, “I’ve not decided; it’s quite possible I
      shan’t build at all. The ground rent’s very high.”

      “Well, Mr. Forsyte, I shall be sorry if you go off, and I think
      you’ll make a mistake, Sir. There’s not a bit of land near London
      with such a view as this, nor one that’s cheaper, all things
      considered; we’ve only to advertise, to get a mob of people after
      it.”

      They looked at each other. Their faces said very plainly: “I
      respect you as a man of business; and you can’t expect me to
      believe a word you say.”

      Well, repeated Soames, “I haven’t made up my mind; the thing will
      very likely go off!” With these words, taking up his umbrella, he
      put his chilly hand into the agent’s, withdrew it without the
      faintest pressure, and went out into the sun.

      He walked slowly back towards the site in deep thought. His
      instinct told him that what the agent had said was true. A cheap
      site. And the beauty of it was, that he knew the agent did not
      really think it cheap; so that his own intuitive knowledge was a
      victory over the agent’s.

      “Cheap or not, I mean to have it,” he thought.

      The larks sprang up in front of his feet, the air was full of
      butterflies, a sweet fragrance rose from the wild grasses. The
      sappy scent of the bracken stole forth from the wood, where,
      hidden in the depths, pigeons were cooing, and from afar on the
      warm breeze, came the rhythmic chiming of church bells.

      Soames walked with his eyes on the ground, his lips opening and
      closing as though in anticipation of a delicious morsel. But when
      he arrived at the site, Bosinney was nowhere to be seen. After
      waiting some little time, he crossed the warren in the direction
      of the slope. He would have shouted, but dreaded the sound of his
      voice.

      The warren was as lonely as a prairie, its silence only broken by
      the rustle of rabbits bolting to their holes, and the song of the
      larks.

      Soames, the pioneer-leader of the great Forsyte army advancing to
      the civilization of this wilderness, felt his spirit daunted by
      the loneliness, by the invisible singing, and the hot, sweet air.
      He had begun to retrace his steps when he at last caught sight of
      Bosinney.

      The architect was sprawling under a large oak tree, whose trunk,
      with a huge spread of bough and foliage, ragged with age, stood
      on the verge of the rise.

      Soames had to touch him on the shoulder before he looked up.

      “Hallo! Forsyte,” he said, “I’ve found the very place for your
      house! Look here!”

      Soames stood and looked, then he said, coldly:

      “You may be very clever, but this site will cost me half as much
      again.”

      “Hang the cost, man. Look at the view!”

      Almost from their feet stretched ripe corn, dipping to a small
      dark copse beyond. A plain of fields and hedges spread to the
      distant grey-bluedowns. In a silver streak to the right could be
      seen the line of the river.

      The sky was so blue, and the sun so bright, that an eternal
      summer seemed to reign over this prospect. Thistledown floated
      round them, enraptured by the serenity, of the ether. The heat
      danced over the corn, and, pervading all, was a soft, insensible
      hum, like the murmur of bright minutes holding revel between
      earth and heaven.

      Soames looked. In spite of himself, something swelled in his
      breast. To live here in sight of all this, to be able to point it
      out to his friends, to talk of it, to possess it! His cheeks
      flushed. The warmth, the radiance, the glow, were sinking into
      his senses as, four years before, Irene’s beauty had sunk into
      his senses and made him long for her. He stole a glance at
      Bosinney, whose eyes, the eyes of the coachman’s “half-tame
      leopard,” seemed running wild over the landscape. The sunlight
      had caught the promontories of the fellow’s face, the bumpy
      cheekbones, the point of his chin, the vertical ridges above his
      brow; and Soames watched this rugged, enthusiastic, careless face
      with an unpleasant feeling.

      A long, soft ripple of wind flowed over the corn, and brought a
      puff of warm air into their faces.

      “I could build you a teaser here,” said Bosinney, breaking the
      silence at last.

      “I dare say,” replied Soames, drily. “You haven’t got to pay for
      it.”

      “For about eight thousand I could build you a palace.”

      Soames had become very pale—a struggle was going on within him.
      He dropped his eyes, and said stubbornly:

      “I can’t afford it.”

      And slowly, with his mousing walk, he led the way back to the
      first site.

      They spent some time there going into particulars of the
      projected house, and then Soames returned to the agent’s cottage.

      He came out in about half an hour, and, joining Bosinney, started
      for the station.

      “Well,” he said, hardly opening his lips, “I’ve taken that site
      of yours, after all.”

      And again he was silent, confusedly debating how it was that this
      fellow, whom by habit he despised, should have overborne his own
      decision.




      CHAPTER V A FORSYTE MÉNAGE

      Like the enlightened thousands of his class and generation in
      this great city of London, who no longer believe in red velvet
      chairs, and know that groups of modern Italian marble are “_vieux
      jeu_,” Soames Forsyte inhabited a house which did what it could.
      It owned a copper door knocker of individual design, windows
      which had been altered to open outwards, hanging flower boxes
      filled with fuchsias, and at the back (a great feature) a little
      court tiled with jade-green tiles, and surrounded by pink
      hydrangeas in peacock-blue tubs. Here, under a parchment-coloured
      Japanese sunshade covering the whole end, inhabitants or visitors
      could be screened from the eyes of the curious while they drank
      tea and examined at their leisure the latest of Soames’s little
      silver boxes.

      The inner decoration favoured the First Empire and William
      Morris. For its size, the house was commodious; there were
      countless nooks resembling birds’ nests, and little things made
      of silver were deposited like eggs.

      In this general perfection two kinds of fastidiousness were at
      war. There lived here a mistress who would have dwelt daintily on
      a desert island; a master whose daintiness was, as it were, an
      investment, cultivated by the owner for his advancement, in
      accordance with the laws of competition. This competitive
      daintiness had caused Soames in his Marlborough days to be the
      first boy into white waistcoats in summer, and corduroy
      waistcoats in winter, had prevented him from ever appearing in
      public with his tie climbing up his collar, and induced him to
      dust his patent leather boots before a great multitude assembled
      on Speech Day to hear him recite Molière.

      Skin-like immaculateness had grown over Soames, as over many
      Londoners; impossible to conceive of him with a hair out of
      place, a tie deviating one-eighth of an inch from the
      perpendicular, a collar unglossed! He would not have gone without
      a bath for worlds—it was the fashion to take baths; and how
      bitter was his scorn of people who omitted them!

      But Irene could be imagined, like some nymph, bathing in wayside
      streams, for the joy of the freshness and of seeing her own fair
      body.

      In this conflict throughout the house the woman had gone to the
      wall. As in the struggle between Saxon and Celt still going on
      within the nation, the more impressionable and receptive
      temperament had had forced on it a conventional superstructure.

      Thus the house had acquired a close resemblance to hundreds of
      other houses with the same high aspirations, having become: “That
      very charming little house of the Soames Forsytes, quite
      individual, my dear—really elegant.”

      For Soames Forsyte—read James Peabody, Thomas Atkins, or Emmanuel
      Spagnoletti, the name in fact of any upper-middle class
      Englishman in London with any pretensions to taste; and though
      the decoration be different, the phrase is just.

      On the evening of August 8, a week after the expedition to Robin
      Hill, in the dining-room of this house—“quite individual, my
      dear—really elegant”—Soames and Irene were seated at dinner. A
      hot dinner on Sundays was a little distinguishing elegance common
      to this house and many others. Early in married life Soames had
      laid down the rule: “The servants must give us hot dinner on
      Sundays—they’ve nothing to do but play the concertina.”

      The custom had produced no revolution. For—to Soames a rather
      deplorable sign—servants were devoted to Irene, who, in defiance
      of all safe tradition, appeared to recognise their right to a
      share in the weaknesses of human nature.

      The happy pair were seated, not opposite each other, but
      rectangularly, at the handsome rosewood table; they dined without
      a cloth—a distinguishing elegance—and so far had not spoken a
      word.

      Soames liked to talk during dinner about business, or what he had
      been buying, and so long as he talked Irene’s silence did not
      distress him. This evening he had found it impossible to talk.
      The decision to build had been weighing on his mind all the week,
      and he had made up his mind to tell her.

      His nervousness about this disclosure irritated him profoundly;
      she had no business to make him feel like that—a wife and a
      husband being one person. She had not looked at him once since
      they sat down; and he wondered what on earth she had been
      thinking about all the time. It was hard, when a man worked as he
      did, making money for her—yes, and with an ache in his heart—that
      she should sit there, looking—looking as if she saw the walls of
      the room closing in. It was enough to make a man get up and leave
      the table.
