to fill it again. 

The wind buffeted the little cottage and the fire leapt 
and crackled, and Bill was soon opening another 
bottle of wine. Lupin’s news seemed to have taken 
them out of themselves, removed them for a while 
from their state of siege: Tidings of new life were 
exhilarating. Only the goblin seemed untouched by 
the suddenly festive atmosphere, and after a while he 
slunk back to the bedroom he now occupied alone. 
Harry thought he was the only one who had noticed 
this, until he saw Bill’s eyes following the goblin up 
the stairs. 

“No ... no ... I really must get back,” said Lupin at 
last, declining yet another goblet of wine. He got to his 
feet and pulled his traveling cloak back around 
himself. 



Page | 583 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Good-bye, good-bye — I’ll try and bring some 
pictures in a few days’ time — they’ll all be so glad to 
know that I’ve seen you — ” 



He fastened his cloak and made his farewells, 
hugging the women and grasping hands with the 
men, then, still beaming, returned into the wild night. 

“Godfather, Harry!” said Bill as they walked into the 
kitchen together, helping clear the table. “A real 
honor! Congratulations!” 

As Harry set down the empty goblets he was carrying, 
Bill pulled the door behind him closed, shutting out 
the still-voluble voices of the others, who were 
continuing to celebrate even in Lupin’s absence. 

“I wanted a private word, actually, Harry. It hasn’t 
been easy to get an opportunity with the cottage this 
full of people.” 

Bill hesitated. 

“Harry, you’re planning something with Griphook.” 

It was a statement, not a question, and Harry did not 
bother to deny it. He merely looked at Bill, waiting. 

“I know goblins,” said Bill. “I’ve worked for Gringotts 
ever since I left Hogwarts. As far as there can be 
friendship between wizards and goblins, I have goblin 
friends — or, at least, goblins I know well, and like.” 
Again, Bill hesitated. 

“Harry, what do you want from Griphook, and what 
have you promised him in return?” 

“I can’t tell you that,” said Harry. “Sorry, Bill.” 

Page | 584 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The kitchen door opened behind them; Fleur was 
trying to bring through more empty goblets. 



“Wait,” Bill told her. “Just a moment.” 

She backed out and he closed the door again. 

“Then I have to say this,” Bill went on. “If you have 
struck any kind of bargain with Griphook, and most 
particularly if that bargain involves treasure, you 
must be exceptionally careful. Goblin notions of 
ownership, payment, and repayment are not the same 
as human ones.” 

Harry felt a slight squirm of discomfort, as though a 
small snake had stirred inside him. 

“What do you mean?” he asked. 

“We are talking about a different breed of being,” said 
Bill. “Dealings between wizards and goblins have been 
fraught for centuries — but you’ll know all that from 
History of Magic. There has been fault on both sides, I 
would never claim that wizards have been innocent. 
However, there is a belief among some goblins, and 
those at Gringotts are perhaps most prone to it, that 
wizards cannot be trusted in matters of gold and 
treasure, that they have no respect for goblin 
ownership.” 

“I respect — ” Harry began, but Bill shook his head. 

“You don’t understand, Harry, nobody could 
understand unless they have lived with goblins. To a 
goblin, the rightful and true master of any object is 
the maker, not the purchaser. All goblin-made objects 
are, in goblin eyes, rightfully theirs.” 

“But if it was bought — ” 

Page | 585 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ — then they would consider it rented by the one who 
had paid the money. They have, however, great 
difficulty with the idea of goblin-made objects passing 
from wizard to wizard. You saw Griphook’s face when 
the tiara passed under his eyes. He disapproves. I 
believe he thinks, as do the fiercest of his kind, that it 
ought to have been returned to the goblins once the 
original purchaser died. They consider our habit of 
keeping goblin-made objects, passing them from 
wizard to wizard without further payment, little more 
than theft.” 

Harry had an ominous feeling now; he wondered 
whether Bill guessed more than he was letting on. 

“All I am saying,” said Bill, setting his hand on the 
door back into the sitting room, “is to be very careful 
what you promise goblins, Harry. It would be less 
dangerous to break into Gringotts than to renege on a 
promise to a goblin.” 

“Right,” said Harry as Bill opened the door, “yeah. 
Thanks. I’ll bear that in mind.” 

As he followed Bill back to the others a wry thought 
came to him, born no doubt of the wine he had 
drunk. He seemed set on course to become just as 
reckless a godfather to Teddy Lupin as Sirius Black 
had been to him. 



Page | 586 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 







GRINGOTTS 

Their plans were made, their preparations complete; 
in the smallest bedroom a single long, coarse black 
hair (plucked from the sweater Hermione had been 
wearing at Malfoy Manor) lay curled in a small glass 
phial on the mantelpiece. 

“And you’ll be using her actual wand,” said Harry, 
nodding toward the walnut wand, “so I reckon you’ll 
be pretty convincing.” 

Hermione looked frightened that the wand might sting 
or bite her as she picked it up. 

“I hate this thing,” she said in a low voice. “I really 
hate it. It feels all wrong, it doesn’t work properly for 
me. ... It’s like a bit of her.” 

Harry could not help but remember how Hermione 
had dismissed his loathing of the blackthorn wand, 
insisting that he was imagining things when it did not 
work as well as his own, telling him to simply 
practice. He chose not to repeat her own advice back 

Page | 587 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



to her, however; the eve of their attempted assault on 
Gringotts felt like the wrong moment to antagonize 
her. 

“It’ll probably help you get in character, though,” said 
Ron. “Think what that wand’s done!” 

“But that’s my point!” said Hermione. “This is the 
wand that tortured Neville’s mum and dad, and who 
knows how many other people? This is the wand that 
killed Sirius!” 

Harry had not thought of that: He looked down at the 
wand and was visited by a brutal urge to snap it, to 
slice it in half with Gryffindor’s sword, which was 
propped against the wall beside him. 

“I miss my wand,” Hermione said miserably. “I wish 
Mr. Ollivander could have made me another one too.” 

Mr. Ollivander had sent Luna a new wand that 
morning. She was out on the back lawn at that 
moment, testing its capabilities in the late afternoon 
sun. Dean, who had lost his wand to the Snatchers, 
was watching rather gloomily. 

Harry looked down at the hawthorn wand that had 
once belonged to Draco Malfoy. He had been 
surprised, but pleased, to discover that it worked for 
him at least as well as Hermione ’s had done. 
Remembering what Ollivander had told them of the 
secret workings of wands, Harry thought he knew 
what Hermione ’s problem was: She had not won the 
walnut wand’s allegiance by taking it personally from 
Bellatrix. 

The door of the bedroom opened and Griphook 
entered. Harry reached instinctively for the hilt of the 
sword and drew it close to him, but regretted his 

Page | 588 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




action at once: He could tell that the goblin had 
noticed. Seeking to gloss over the sticky moment, he 
said, “We’ve just been checking the last-minute stuff, 
Griphook. We’ve told Bill and Fleur we’re leaving 
tomorrow, and we’ve told them not to get up to see us 
off.” 

They had been firm on this point, because Hermione 
would need to transform into Bellatrix before they left, 
and the less that Bill and Fleur knew or suspected 
about what they were about to do, the better. They 
had also explained that they would not be returning. 
As they had lost Perkins’s old tent on the night that 
the Snatchers caught them, Bill had lent them 
another one. It was now packed inside the beaded 
bag, which, Harry was impressed to learn, Hermione 
had protected from the Snatchers by the simple 
expedient of stuffing it down her sock. 

Though he would miss Bill, Fleur, Luna, and Dean, 
not to mention the home comforts they had enjoyed 
over the last few weeks, Harry was looking forward to 
escaping the confinement of Shell Cottage. He was 
tired of trying to make sure that they were not 
overheard, tired of being shut in the tiny, dark 
bedroom. Most of all, he longed to be rid of Griphook. 
However, precisely how and when they were to part 
from the goblin without handing over Gryffindor’s 
sword remained a question to which Harry had no 
answer. It had been impossible to decide how they 
were going to do it, because the goblin rarely left 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione alone together for more 
than five minutes at a time: “He could give my mother 
lessons,” growled Ron, as the goblin’s long fingers 
kept appearing around the edges of doors. With Bill’s 
warning in mind, Harry could not help suspecting 
that Griphook was on the watch for possible 
skulduggery. Hermione disapproved so heartily of the 
planned double-cross that Harry had given up 
Page | 589 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




attempting to pick her brains on how best to do it; 
Ron, on the rare occasions that they had been able to 
snatch a few Griphook-free moments, had come up 
with nothing better than “Well just have to wing it, 
mate.” 

Harry slept badly that night. Lying awake in the early 
hours, he thought back to the way he had felt the 
night before they had infiltrated the Ministry of Magic 
and remembered a determination, almost an 
excitement. Now he was experiencing jolts of anxiety, 
nagging doubts: He could not shake off the fear that it 
was all going to go wrong. He kept telling himself that 
their plan was good, that Griphook knew what they 
were facing, that they were well-prepared for all the 
difficulties they were likely to encounter, yet still he 
felt uneasy. Once or twice he heard Ron stir and was 
sure that he too was awake, but they were sharing 
the sitting room with Dean, so Harry did not speak. 

It was a relief when six o’clock arrived and they could 
slip out of their sleeping bags, dress in the 
semidarkness, then creep out into the garden, where 
they were to meet Hermione and Griphook. The dawn 
was chilly, but there was little wind now that it was 
May. Harry looked up at the stars still glimmering 
palely in the dark sky and listened to the sea washing 
backward and forward against the cliff: He was going 
to miss the sound. 

Small green shoots were forcing their way up through 
the red earth of Dobby’s grave now; in a year’s time 
the mound would be covered in flowers. The white 
stone that bore the elf’s name had already acquired a 
weathered look. He realized now that they could 
hardly have laid Dobby to rest in a more beautiful 
place, but Harry ached with sadness to think of 
leaving him behind. Looking down on the grave, he 
wondered yet again how the elf had known where to 
Page | 590 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




come to rescue them. His fingers moved 
absentmindedly to the little pouch still strung around 
his neck, through which he could feel the jagged 
mirror fragment in which he had been sure he had 
seen Dumbledore’s eye. Then the sound of a door 
opening made him look around. 

Bellatrix Lestrange was striding across the lawn 
toward them, accompanied by Griphook. As she 
walked, she was tucking the small, beaded bag into 
the inside pocket of another set of the old robes they 
had taken from Grimmauld Place. Though Harry 
knew perfectly well that it was really Hermione, he 
could not suppress a shiver of loathing. She was taller 
than he was, her long black hair rippling down her 
back, her heavily lidded eyes disdainful as they rested 
upon him; but then she spoke, and he heard 
Hermione through Bellatrix’s low voice. 

“She tasted disgusting, worse than Gurdyroots! Okay, 
Ron, come here so I can do you. ...” 

“Right, but remember, I don’t like the beard too long 



“Oh, for heaven’s sake, this isn’t about looking 
handsome — ” “It’s not that, it gets in the way! But I 
liked my nose a bit shorter, try and do it the way you 
did last time.” 

Hermione sighed and set to work, muttering under 
her breath as she transformed various aspects of 
Ron’s appearance. He was to be given a completely 
fake identity, and they were trusting to the malevolent 
aura cast by Bellatrix to protect him. Meanwhile 
Harry and Griphook were to be concealed under the 
Invisibility Cloak. 

“There,” said Hermione, “how does he look, Harry?” 

Page | 591 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




It was just possible to discern Ron under his disguise, 
but only, Harry thought, because he knew him so 
well. Ron’s hair was now long and wavy; he had a 
thick brown beard and mustache, no freckles, a 
short, broad nose, and heavy eyebrows. 

“Well, he’s not my type, but he’ll do,” said Harry. 

“Shall we go, then?” 

All three of them glanced back at Shell Cottage, lying 
dark and silent under the fading stars, then turned 
and began to walk toward the point, just beyond the 
boundary wall, where the Fidelius Charm stopped 
working and they would be able to Disapparate. Once 
past the gate, Griphook spoke. 

“I should climb up now, Harry Potter, I think?” 

Harry bent down and the goblin clambered onto his 
back, his hands linked in front of Harry’s throat. He 
was not heavy, but Harry disliked the feeling of the 
goblin and the surprising strength with which he 
clung on. Hermione pulled the Invisibility Cloak out of 
the beaded bag and threw it over them both. 

“Perfect,” she said, bending down to check Harry’s 
feet. “I can’t see a thing. Let’s go.” 

Harry turned on the spot, with Griphook on his 
shoulders, concentrating with all his might on the 
Leaky Cauldron, the inn that was the entrance to 
Diagon Alley. The goblin clung even tighter as they 
moved into the compressing darkness, and seconds 
later Harry’s feet found pavement and he opened his 
eyes on Charing Cross Road. Muggles bustled past 
wearing the hangdog expressions of early morning, 
quite unconscious of the little inn’s existence. 



Page | 592 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The bar of the Leaky Cauldron was nearly deserted. 
Tom, the stooped and toothless landlord, was 
polishing glasses behind the bar counter; a couple of 
warlocks having a muttered conversation in the far 
corner glanced at Hermione and drew back into the 
shadows. 

“Madam Lestrange,” murmured Tom, and as 
Hermione passed he inclined his head subserviently. 

“Good morning,” said Hermione, and as Harry crept 
past, still carrying Griphook piggyback under the 
Cloak, he saw Tom look surprised. 

“Too polite,” Harry whispered in Hermione’s ear as 
they passed out of the inn into the tiny backyard. 
“You need to treat people like they’re scum!” 

“Okay, okay!” 

Hermione drew out Bellatrix’s wand and tapped a 
brick in the nondescript wall in front of them. At once 
the bricks began to whirl and spin: A hole appeared 
in the middle of them, which grew wider and wider, 
finally forming an archway onto the narrow cobbled 
street that was Diagon Alley. 

It was quiet, barely time for the shops to open, and 
there were hardly any shoppers abroad. The crooked, 
cobbled street was much altered now from the 
bustling place Harry had visited before his first term 
at Hogwarts so many years before. More shops than 
ever were boarded up, though several new 
establishments dedicated to the Dark Arts had been 
created since his last visit. Harry’s own face glared 
down at him from posters plastered over many 
windows, always captioned with the words 
UNDESIRABLE NUMBER ONE. 



Page | 593 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




A number of ragged people sat huddled in doorways. 
He heard them moaning to the few passersby, 
pleading for gold, insisting that they were really 
wizards. One man had a bloody bandage over his eye. 

As they set off along the street, the beggars glimpsed 
Hermione. They seemed to melt away before her, 
drawing hoods over their faces and fleeing as fast as 
they could. Hermione looked after them curiously, 
until the man with the bloodied bandage came 
staggering right across her path. 

“My children!” he bellowed, pointing at her. His voice 
was cracked, high-pitched; he sounded distraught. 
“Where are my children? What has he done with 
them? You know, you know\” 

“I — I really — ” stammered Hermione. 

The man lunged at her, reaching for her throat: Then, 
with a bang and a burst of red light he was thrown 
backward onto the ground, unconscious. Ron stood 
there, his wand still outstretched and a look of shock 
visible behind his beard. Faces appeared at the 
windows on either side of the street, while a little knot 
of prosperous-looking passersby gathered their robes 
about them and broke into gentle trots, keen to 
vacate the scene. 

Their entrance into Diagon Alley could hardly have 
been more conspicuous; for a moment Harry 
wondered whether it might not be better to leave now 
and try to think of a different plan. Before they could 
move or consult one another, however, they heard a 
cry from behind them. 

“Why, Madam Lestrange!” 



Page | 594 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry whirled around and Griphook tightened his 
hold around Harry’s neck: A tall, thin wizard with a 
crown of bushy gray hair and a long, sharp nose was 
striding toward them. 

“It’s Travers,” hissed the goblin into Harry’s ear, but 
at that moment Harry could not think who Travers 
was. Hermione had drawn herself up to her fullest 
height and said with as much contempt as she could 
muster: 

“And what do you want?” 

Travers stopped in his tracks, clearly affronted. 

“ He’s another Death Eater\” breathed Griphook, and 
Harry sidled sideways to repeat the information into 
Hermione ’s ear. 

“I merely sought to greet you,” said Travers coolly, 
“but if my presence is not welcome ...” 

Harry recognized his voice now; Travers was one of 
the Death Eaters who had been summoned to 
Xenophilius’s house. 

“No, no, not at all, Travers,” said Hermione quickly, 
trying to cover up her mistake. “How are you?” 

“Well, I confess I am surprised to see you out and 
about, Bellatrix.” 

“Really? Why?” asked Hermione. 

“Well,” Travers coughed, “I heard that the inhabitants 
of Malfoy Manor were confined to the house, after the 
... ah ... escape.” 



Page | 595 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry willed Hermione to keep her head. If this was 
true, and Bellatrix was not supposed to be out in 
public — 

“The Dark Lord forgives those who have served him 
most faithfully in the past,” said Hermione in a 
magnificent imitation of Bellatrix’s most 
contemptuous manner. “Perhaps your credit is not as 
good with him as mine is, Travers.” 

Though the Death Eater looked offended, he also 
seemed less suspicious. He glanced down at the man 
Ron had just Stunned. 

“How did it offend you?” 

“It does not matter, it will not do so again,” said 
Hermione coolly. 

“Some of these wandless can be troublesome,” said 
Travers. “While they do nothing but beg I have no 
objection, but one of them actually asked me to plead 
her case at the Ministry last week. ‘I’m a witch, sir, I’m 
a witch, let me prove it to youV ” he said in a squeaky 
impersonation. “As if I was going to give her my wand 
— but whose wand,” said Travers curiously, “are you 
using at the moment, Bellatrix? I heard that your own 
was — ” 

“I have my wand here,” said Hermione coldly, holding 
up Bellatrix’s wand. “I don’t know what rumors you 
have been listening to, Travers, but you seem sadly 
misinformed.” 

Travers seemed a little taken aback at that, and he 
turned instead to Ron. 

“Who is your friend? I do not recognize him.” 



Page | 596 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“This is Dragomir Despard,” said Hermione; they had 
decided that a fictional foreigner was the safest cover 
for Ron to assume. “He speaks very little English, but 
he is in sympathy with the Dark Lord’s aims. He has 
traveled here from Transylvania to see our new 
regime.” 

“Indeed? How do you do, Dragomir?” 

“ ’Ow you?” said Ron, holding out his hand. 

Travers extended two fingers and shook Ron’s hand 
as though frightened of dirtying himself. 

“So what brings you and your — ah — sympathetic 
friend to Diagon Alley this early?” asked Travers. 

“I need to visit Gringotts,” said Hermione. 

“Alas, I also,” said Travers. “Gold, filthy gold! We 
cannot live without it, yet I confess I deplore the 
necessity of consorting with our long-fingered 
friends.” 

Harry felt Griphook’s clasped hands tighten 
momentarily around his neck. 

“Shall we?” said Travers, gesturing Hermione forward. 

Hermione had no choice but to fall into step beside 
him and head along the crooked, cobbled street 
toward the place where the snowy-white Gringotts 
stood towering over the other little shops. Ron sloped 
along beside them, and Harry and Griphook followed. 

A watchful Death Eater was the very last thing they 
needed, and the worst of it was, with Travers 
marching at what he believed to be Bellatrix’s side, 
there was no means for Harry to communicate with 

Page | 597 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione or Ron. All too soon they arrived at the foot 
of the marble steps leading up to the great bronze 
doors. As Griphook had already warned them, the 
liveried goblins who usually flanked the entrance had 
been replaced by two wizards, both of whom were 
clutching long thin golden rods. 

“Ah, Probity Probes,” sighed Travers theatrically, “so 
crude — but effective!” 

And he set off up the steps, nodding left and right to 
the wizards, who raised the golden rods and passed 
them up and down his body. The Probes, Harry knew, 
detected spells of concealment and hidden magical 
objects. Knowing that he had only seconds; Harry 
pointed Draco’s wand at each of the guards in turn 
and murmured, “Confundo” twice. Unnoticed by 
Travers, who was looking through the bronze doors at 
the inner hall, each of the guards gave a little start as 
the spells hit them. 

Hermione ’s long black hair rippled behind her as she 
climbed the steps. 

“One moment, madam,” said the guard, raising his 
Probe. 

“But you’ve just done that!” said Hermione in 
Bellatrix’s commanding, arrogant voice. Travers 
looked around, eyebrows raised. The guard was 
confused. He stared down at the thin golden Probe 
and then at his companion, who said in a slightly 
dazed voice, 

“Yeah, you’ve just checked them, Marius.” 

Hermione swept forward, Ron by her side, Harry and 
Griphook trotting invisibly behind them. Harry 



Page | 598 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




glanced back as they crossed the threshold: The 
wizards were both scratching their heads. 

Two goblins stood before the inner doors, which were 
made of silver and which carried the poem warning of 
dire retribution to potential thieves. Harry looked up 
at it, and all of a sudden a knife-sharp memory came 
to him: standing on this very spot on the day that he 
had turned eleven, the most wonderful birthday of his 
life, and Hagrid standing beside him saying, “ Like I 
said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it.” Gringotts had 
seemed a place of wonder that day, the enchanted 
repository of a trove of gold he had never known he 
possessed, and never for an instant could he have 
dreamed that he would return to steal. ... But within 
seconds they were standing in the vast marble hall of 
the bank. 

The long counter was manned by goblins sitting on 
high stools, serving the first customers of the day. 
Hermione, Ron, and Travers headed toward an old 
goblin who was examining a thick gold coin through 
an eyeglass. Hermione allowed Travers to step ahead 
of her on the pretext of explaining features of the hall 
to Ron. 

The goblin tossed the coin he was holding aside, said 
to nobody in particular, “Leprechaun,” and then 
greeted Travers, who passed over a tiny golden key, 
which was examined and given back to him. 

Hermione stepped forward. 

“Madam Lestrange!” said the goblin, evidently 
startled. “Dear me! How — how may I help you 
today?” 

“I wish to enter my vault,” said Hermione. 



Page | 599 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The old goblin seemed to recoil a little. Harry glanced 
around. Not only was Travers hanging back, 
watching, but several other goblins had looked up 
from their work to stare at Hermione. 

“You have ... identification?” asked the goblin. 

“Identification? I — I have never been asked for 
identification before!” said Hermione. 

“ They know\” whispered Griphook in Harry’s ear. 
“They must have been warned there might be an 
impostor !” 

“Your wand will do, madam,” said the goblin. He held 
out a slightly trembling hand, and in a dreadful blast 
of realization Harry knew that the goblins of Gringotts 
were aware that Bellatrix’s wand had been stolen. 

“Act now, act now,” whispered Griphook in Harry’s 
ear, “the Imperius Cursel” 

Harry raised the hawthorn wand beneath the cloak, 
pointed it at the old goblin, and whispered, for the 
first time in his life, “Imperiol” 

A curious sensation shot down Harry’s arm, a feeling 
of tingling warmth that seemed to flow from his mind, 
down the sinews and veins connecting him to the 
wand and the curse it had just cast. The goblin took 
Bellatrix’s wand, examined it closely, and then said, 
“Ah, you have had a new wand made, Madam 
Lestrange!” 

“What?” said Hermione. “No, no, that’s mine — ” 

“A new wand?” said Travers, approaching the counter 
again; still the goblins all around were watching. “But 



Page | 600 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




how could you have done, which wandmaker did you 
use?” 

Harry acted without thinking: Pointing his wand at 
Travers, he muttered, “Imperiol” once more. 

“Oh yes, I see,” said Travers, looking down at 
Bellatrix’s wand, “yes, very handsome. And is it 
working well? I always think wands require a little 
breaking in, don’t you?” 

Hermione looked utterly bewildered, but to Harry’s 
enormous relief she accepted the bizarre turn of 
events without comment. 

The old goblin behind the counter clapped his hands 
and a younger goblin approached. 

“I shall need the Clankers,” he told the goblin, who 
dashed away and returned a moment later with a 
leather bag that seemed to be full of jangling metal, 
which he handed to his senior. “Good, good! So, if you 
will follow me, Madam Lestrange,” said the old goblin, 
hopping down off his stool and vanishing from sight, 

“I shall take you to your vault.” 

He appeared around the end of the counter, jogging 
happily toward them, the contents of the leather bag 
still jingling. Travers was now standing quite still with 
his mouth hanging wide open. Ron was drawing 
attention to this odd phenomenon by regarding 
Travers with confusion. 

“Wait — Bogrod!” 

Another goblin came scurrying around the counter. 



Page | 601 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We have instructions,” he said with a bow to 
Hermione. “Forgive me, Madam, but there have been 
special orders regarding the vault of Lestrange.” 

He whispered urgently in Bogrod’s ear, but the 
Imperiused goblin shook him off. 

“I am aware of the instructions. Madam Lestrange 
wishes to visit her vault. ... Very old family ... old 
clients ... This way, please ...” 

And, still clanking, he hurried toward one of the many 
doors leading off the hall. Harry looked back at 
Travers, who was still rooted to the spot looking 
abnormally vacant, and made his decision: With a 
flick of his wand he made Travers come with them, 
walking meekly in their wake as they reached the 
door and passed into the rough stone passageway 
beyond, which was lit with flaming torches. 

“We’re in trouble; they suspect,” said Harry as the 
door slammed behind them and he pulled off the 
Invisibility Cloak. Griphook jumped down from his 
shoulders; neither Travers nor Bogrod showed the 
slightest surprise at the sudden appearance of Harry 
Potter in their midst. “They’re Imperiused,” he added, 
in response to Hermione and Ron’s confused queries 
about Travers and Bogrod, who were both now 
standing there looking blank. “I don’t think I did it 
strongly enough, I don’t know. ...” 

And another memory darted through his mind, of the 
real Bellatrix Lestrange shrieking at him when he had 
first tried to use an Unforgivable Curse: “You need to 
mean them, Potter!” 

“What do we do?” asked Ron. “Shall we get out now, 
while we can?” 



Page | 602 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“If we can,” said Hermione, looking back toward the 
door into the main hall, beyond which who knew 
what was happening. 

“We’ve got this far, I say we go on,” said Harry. 

“Good!” said Griphook. “So, we need Bogrod to control 
the cart; I no longer have the authority. But there will 
not be room for the wizard.” 

Harry pointed his wand at Travers. 

“Imperio\” 

The wizard turned and set off along the dark track at 
a smart pace. 

“What are you making him do?” 

“Hide,” said Harry as he pointed his wand at Bogrod, 
who whistled to summon a little cart that came 
trundling along the tracks toward them out of the 
darkness. Harry was sure he could hear shouting 
behind them in the main hall as they all clambered 
into it, Bogrod in front with Griphook, Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione crammed together in the back. 

With a jerk the cart moved off, gathering speed: They 
hurtled past Travers, who was wriggling into a crack 
in the wall, then the cart began twisting and turning 
through the labyrinthine passages, sloping downward 
all the time. Harry could not hear anything over the 
rattling of the cart on the tracks: His hair flew behind 
him as they swerved between stalactites, flying ever 
deeper into the earth, but he kept glancing back. 

They might as well have left enormous footprints 
behind them; the more he thought about it, the more 
foolish it seemed to have disguised Hermione as 



Page | 603 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Bellatrix, to have brought along Bellatrix’s wand, 
when the Death Eaters knew who had stolen it — 

They were deeper than Harry had ever penetrated 
within Gringotts; they took a hairpin bend at speed 
and saw ahead of them, with seconds to spare, a 
waterfall pounding over the track. Harry heard 
Griphook shout, “No!” but there was no braking: They 
zoomed through it. Water filled Harry’s eyes and 
mouth: He could not see or breathe: Then, with an 
awful lurch, the cart flipped over and they were all 
thrown out of it. Harry heard the cart smash into 
pieces against the passage wall, heard Hermione 
shriek something, and felt himself glide back toward 
the ground as though weightless, landing painlessly 
on the rocky passage floor. 

“C-Cushioning Charm,” Hermione spluttered, as Ron 
pulled her to her feet, but to Harry’s horror he saw 
that she was no longer Bellatrix; instead she stood 
there in overlarge robes, sopping wet and completely 
herself; Ron was red-haired and beardless again. 

They were realizing it as they looked at each other, 
feeling their own faces. 

“The Thief’s Downfall!” said Griphook, clambering to 
his feet and looking back at the deluge onto the 
tracks, which, Harry knew now, had been more than 
water. “It washes away all enchantment, all magical 
concealment! They know there are impostors in 
Gringotts, they have set off defenses against us!” 

Harry saw Hermione checking that she still had the 
beaded bag, and hurriedly thrust his own hand under 
his jacket to make sure he had not lost the Invisibility 
Cloak. Then he turned to see Bogrod shaking his 
head in bewilderment: The Thief’s Downfall seemed to 
have lifted the Imperius Curse. 



Page | 604 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We need him,” said Griphook, “we cannot enter the 
vault without a Gringotts goblin. And we need the 
Clankers!” 

“Imperiol” Harry said again; his voice echoed through 
the stone passage as he felt again the sense of heady 
control that flowed from brain to wand. Bogrod 
submitted once more to his will, his befuddled 
expression changing to one of polite indifference, as 
Ron hurried to pick up the leather bag of metal tools. 

“Harry, I think I can hear people coming!” said 
Hermione, and she pointed Bellatrix’s wand at the 
waterfall and cried, “Protego\” They saw the Shield 
Charm break the flow of enchanted water as it flew up 
the passageway. 

“Good thinking,” said Harry. “Lead the way, 

Griphook!” 

“How are we going to get out again?” Ron asked as 
they hurried on foot into the darkness after the 
goblin, Bogrod panting in their wake like an old dog. 

“Let’s worry about that when we have to,” said Harry. 
He was trying to listen: He thought he could hear 
something clanking and moving around nearby. 
“Griphook, how much farther?” 

“Not far, Harry Potter, not far ...” 

And they turned a corner and saw the thing for which 
Harry had been prepared, but which still brought all 
of them to a halt. 

A gigantic dragon was tethered to the ground in front 
