me here!” 

Umbridge ignored her. 

“Mother to Maisie, Ellie, and Alfred Cattermole?” 

Mrs. Cattermole sobbed harder than ever. 



Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re frightened, they think I might not come home 



“Spare us,” spat Yaxley. “The brats of Mudbloods do 
not stir our sympathies.” 

Mrs. Cattermole’s sobs masked Harry’s footsteps as 
he made his way carefully toward the steps that led 
up to the raised platform. The moment he had passed 
the place where the Patronus cat patrolled, he felt the 
change in temperature: It was warm and comfortable 
here. The Patronus, he was sure, was Umbridge’s, 
and it glowed brightly because she was so happy 
here, in her element, upholding the twisted laws she 
had helped to write. Slowly and very carefully he 
edged his way along the platform behind Umbridge, 
Yaxley, and Hermione, taking a seat behind the latter. 
He was worried about making Hermione jump. He 
thought of casting the Muffliato charm upon 
Umbridge and Yaxley, but even murmuring the word 
might cause Hermione alarm. Then Umbridge raised 
her voice to address Mrs. Cattermole, and Harry 
seized his chance. 

“I’m behind you,” he whispered into Hermione’s ear. 

As he had expected, she jumped so violently she 
nearly overturned the bottle of ink with which she 
was supposed to be recording the interview, but both 
Umbridge and Yaxley were concentrating upon Mrs. 
Cattermole, and this went unnoticed. 

“A wand was taken from you upon your arrival at the 
Ministry today, Mrs. Cattermole,” Umbridge was 
saying. “Eight-and-three-quarter inches, cherry, 
unicorn-hair core. Do you recognize that description?” 

Mrs. Cattermole nodded, mopping her eyes on her 
sleeve. 

Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Could you please tell us from which witch or wizard 
you took that wand?” 



“T-took?” sobbed Mrs. Cattermole. “I didn’t t-take it 
from anybody. I b-bought it when I was eleven years 
old. It — it — it — chose me.” 

She cried harder than ever. 

Umbridge laughed a soft girlish laugh that made 
Harry want to attack her. She leaned forward over the 
barrier, the better to observe her victim, and 
something gold swung forward too, and dangled over 
the void: the locket. 

Hermione had seen it; she let out a little squeak, but 
Umbridge and Yaxley, still intent upon their prey, 
were deaf to everything else. 

“No,” said Umbridge, “no, I don’t think so, Mrs. 
Cattermole. Wands only choose witches or wizards. 
You are not a witch. I have your responses to the 
questionnaire that was sent to you here — Mafalda, 
pass them to me.” 

Umbridge held out a small hand: She looked so 
toadlike at that moment that Harry was quite 
surprised not to see webs between the stubby fingers. 
Hermione ’s hands were shaking with shock. She 
fumbled in a pile of documents balanced on the chair 
beside her, finally withdrawing a sheaf of parchment 
with Mrs. Cattermole’s name on it. 

“That’s — that’s pretty, Dolores,” she said, pointing at 
the pendant gleaming in the ruffled folds of 
Umbridge’s blouse. 

“What?” snapped Umbridge, glancing down. “Oh yes 
— an old family heirloom,” she said, patting the locket 

Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




lying on her large bosom. “The S stands for Selwyn. ... 
I am related to the Selwyns. ... Indeed, there are few 
pure-blood families to whom I am not related. ... A 
pity,” she continued in a louder voice, flicking 
through Mrs. Cattermole’s questionnaire, “that the 
same cannot be said for you. ‘Parents’ professions: 
greengrocers.’ ” 

Yaxley laughed jeeringly. Below, the fluffy silver cat 
patrolled up and down, and the dementors stood 
waiting in the corners. 

It was Umbridge’s lie that brought the blood surging 
into Harry’s brain and obliterated his sense of caution 
— that the locket she had taken as a bribe from a 
petty criminal was being used to bolster her own 
pure-blood credentials. He raised his wand, not even 
troubling to keep it concealed beneath the Invisibility 
Cloak, and said, “Stupefyl” 

There was a flash of red light; Umbridge crumpled 
and her forehead hit the edge of the balustrade: Mrs. 
Cattermole’s papers slid off her lap onto the floor and, 
down below, the prowling silver cat vanished. Ice-cold 
air hit them like an oncoming wind: Yaxley, confused, 
looked around for the source of the trouble and saw 
Harry’s disembodied hand and wand pointing at him. 
He tried to draw his own wand, but too late: 

“Stupefyl” 

Yaxley slid to the ground to lie curled on the floor. 
“Harry!” 

“Hermione, if you think I was going to sit here and let 
her pretend — ” 

“Harry, Mrs. Cattermole!” 



Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry whirled around, throwing off the Invisibility 
Cloak; down below, the dementors had moved out of 
their corners; they were gliding toward the woman 
chained to the chair: Whether because the Patronus 
had vanished or because they sensed that their 
masters were no longer in control, they seemed to 
have abandoned restraint. Mrs. Cattermole let out a 
terrible scream of fear as a slimy, scabbed hand 
grasped her chin and forced her face back. 

“EXPECTO PATRONUM” 

The silver stag soared from the tip of Harry’s wand 
and leaped toward the dementors, which fell back and 
melted into the dark shadows again. The stag’s light, 
more powerful and more warming than the cat’s 
protection, filled the whole dungeon as it cantered 
around and around the room. 

“Get the Horcrux,” Harry told Hermione. 

He ran back down the steps, stuffing the Invisibility 
Cloak back into his bag, and approached Mrs. 
Cattermole. 

“You?” she whispered, gazing into his face. “But — 
but Reg said you were the one who submitted my 
name for questioning!” 

“Did I?” muttered Harry, tugging at the chains 
binding her arms. “Well, I’ve had a change of heart. 
Diffindol” Nothing happened. “Hermione, how do I get 
rid of these chains?” 

“Wait, I’m trying something up here — ” 

“Hermione, we’re surrounded by dementors!” 



Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I know that, Harry, but if she wakes up and the 
locket’s gone — I need to duplicate it — Geminio\ 
There ... That should fool her. ...” 



Hermione came running downstairs. 

“Let’s see. ... Relashiol” 

The chains clinked and withdrew into the arms of the 
chair. Mrs. Cattermole looked just as frightened as 
ever before. 

“I don’t understand,” she whispered. 

“You’re going to leave here with us,” said Harry, 
pulling her to her feet. “Go home, grab your children, 
and get out, get out of the country if you’ve got to. 
Disguise yourselves and run. You’ve seen how it is, 
you won’t get anything like a fair hearing here.” 

“Harry,” said Hermione, “how are we going to get out 
of here with all those dementors outside the door?” 

“Patronuses,” said Harry, pointing his wand at his 
own: The stag slowed and walked, still gleaming 
brightly, toward the door. “As many as we can 
muster; do yours, Hermione.” 

“Expec — Expecto patronum,” said Hermione. Nothing 
happened. 

“It’s the only spell she ever has trouble with,” Harry 
told a completely bemused Mrs. Cattermole. “Bit 
unfortunate, really ... Come on, Hermione. ...” 

“Expecto patronum).” 

A silver otter burst from the end of Hermione ’s wand 
and swam gracefully through the air to join the stag. 

Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“C’mon,” said Harry, and he led Hermione and Mrs. 
Cattermole to the door. 

When the Patronuses glided out of the dungeon there 
were cries of shock from the people waiting outside. 
Harry looked around; the dementors were falling back 
on both sides of them, melding into the darkness, 
scattering before the silver creatures. 

“It’s been decided that you should all go home and go 
into hiding with your families,” Harry told the waiting 
Muggle-borns, who were dazzled by the light of the 
Patronuses and still cowering slightly. “Go abroad if 
you can. Just get well away from the Ministry. That’s 
the — er — new official position. Now, if you’ll just 
follow the Patronuses, you’ll be able to leave from the 
Atrium.” 

They managed to get up the stone steps without being 
intercepted, but as they approached the lifts Harry 
started to have misgivings. If they emerged into the 
Atrium with a silver stag, an otter soaring alongside 
it, and twenty or so people, half of them accused 
Muggle-borns, he could not help feeling that they 
would attract unwanted attention. He had just 
reached this unwelcome conclusion when the lift 
clanged to a halt in front of them. 

“Reg!” screamed Mrs. Cattermole, and she threw 
herself into Ron’s arms. “Runcorn let me out, he 
attacked Umbridge and Yaxley, and he’s told all of us 
to leave the country, I think we’d better do it, Reg, I 
really do, let’s hurry home and fetch the children and 
— why are you so wet?” 

“Water,” muttered Ron, disengaging himself. “Harry, 
they know there are intruders inside the Ministry, 
something about a hole in Umbridge’s office door, I 
reckon we’ve got five minutes if that — ” 

Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione ’s Patronus vanished with a pop as she 
turned a horror-struck face to Harry. 

“Harry, if we’re trapped here — !” 

“We won’t be if we move fast,” said Harry. He 
addressed the silent group behind them, who were all 
gawping at him. 

“Who’s got wands?” 

About half of them raised their hands. 

“Okay, all of you who haven’t got wands need to 
attach yourself to somebody who has. We’ll need to be 
fast before they stop us. Come on.” 

They managed to cram themselves into two lifts. 
Harry’s Patronus stood sentinel before the golden 
grilles as they shut and the lifts began to rise. 

“Level eight,” said the witch’s cool voice, “Atrium.” 

Harry knew at once that they were in trouble. The 
Atrium was full of people moving from fireplace to 
fireplace, sealing them off. 

“Harry!” squeaked Hermione. “What are we going to — 
?” 

“STOP!” Harry thundered, and the powerful voice of 
Runcorn echoed through the Atrium: The wizards 
sealing the fireplaces froze. “Follow me,” he whispered 
to the group of terrified Muggle-borns, who moved 
forward in a huddle, shepherded by Ron and 
Hermione. 



Page | 298 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s up, Albert?” said the same balding wizard 
who had followed Harry out of the fireplace earlier. He 
looked nervous. 



“This lot need to leave before you seal the exits,” said 
Harry with all the authority he could muster. 

The group of wizards in front of him looked at one 
another. 

“We’ve been told to seal all exits and not let anyone — 



“ Are you contradicting me?” Harry blustered. “Would 
you like me to have your family tree examined, like I 
had Dirk Cresswell’s?” 

“Sorry!” gasped the balding wizard, backing away. “I 
didn’t mean nothing, Albert, but I thought ... I 
thought they were in for questioning and ...” 

“Their blood is pure,” said Harry, and his deep voice 
echoed impressively through the hall. “Purer than 
many of yours, I daresay. Off you go,” he boomed to 
the Muggle-borns, who scurried forward into the 
fireplaces and began to vanish in pairs. The Ministry 
wizards hung back, some looking confused, others 
scared and resentful. Then: 

“Mary!” 

Mrs. Cattermole looked over her shoulder. The real 
Reg Cattermole, no longer vomiting but pale and wan, 
had just come running out of a lift. 

“R-Reg?” 

She looked from her husband to Ron, who swore 
loudly. 

Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The balding wizard gaped, his head turning 
ludicrously from one Reg Cattermole to the other. 



“Hey — what’s going on? What is this?” 

“Seal the exit! SEAL IT!” 

Yaxley had burst out of another lift and was running 
toward the group beside the fireplaces, into which all 
of the Muggle-borns but Mrs. Cattermole had now 
vanished. As the balding wizard lifted his wand, Harry 
raised an enormous fist and punched him, sending 
him flying through the air. 

“He’s been helping Muggle-borns escape, Yaxley!” 
Harry shouted. 

The balding wizard’s colleagues set up an uproar, 
under cover of which Ron grabbed Mrs. Cattermole, 
pulled her into the still-open fireplace, and 
disappeared. Confused, Yaxley looked from Harry to 
the punched wizard, while the real Reg Cattermole 
screamed, “My wife! Who was that with my wife? 
What’s going on?” 

Harry saw Yaxley’s head turn, saw an inkling of the 
truth dawn in that brutish face. 

“Come on!” Harry shouted at Hermione; he seized her 
hand and they jumped into the fireplace together as 
Yaxley’s curse sailed over Harry’s head. They spun for 
a few seconds before shooting up out of a toilet into a 
cubicle. Harry flung open the door; Ron was standing 
there beside the sinks, still wrestling with Mrs. 
Cattermole. 

“Reg, I don’t understand — ” 

“Let go, I’m not your husband, you’ve got to go home!” 

Page | 300 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There was a noise in the cubicle behind them; Harry 
looked around; Yaxley had just appeared. 

“LET’S GO!” Harry yelled. He seized Hermione by the 
hand and Ron by the arm and turned on the spot. 

Darkness engulfed them, along with the sensation of 
compressing bands, but something was wrong. ... 
Hermione ’s hand seemed to be sliding out of his grip. 



He wondered whether he was going to suffocate; he 
could not breathe or see and the only solid things in 
the world were Ron’s arm and Hermione ’s fingers, 
which were slowly slipping away. . . . 

And then he saw the door of number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place, with its serpent door knocker, but 
before he could draw breath, there was a scream and 
a flash of purple light; Hermione ’s hand was suddenly 
vicelike upon his and everything went dark again. 



Page | 301 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE THIEF 

Harry opened his eyes and was dazzled by gold and 
green; he had no idea what had happened, he only 
knew that he was lying on what seemed to be leaves 
and twigs. Struggling to draw breath into lungs that 
felt flattened, he blinked and realized that the gaudy 
glare was sunlight streaming through a canopy of 
leaves far above him. Then an object twitched close to 
his face. He pushed himself onto his hands and 
knees, ready to face some small, fierce creature, but 
saw that the object was Ron’s foot. Looking around, 
Harry saw that they and Hermione were lying on a 
forest floor, apparently alone. 

Harry’s first thought was of the Forbidden Forest, and 
for a moment, even though he knew how foolish and 
dangerous it would be for them to appear in the 
grounds of Hogwarts, his heart leapt at the thought of 
sneaking through the trees to Hagrid’s hut. However, 
in the few moments it took for Ron to give a low groan 
and Harry to start crawling toward him, he realized 
that this was not the Forbidden Forest: The trees 



Page | 302 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



looked younger, they were more widely spaced, the 
ground clearer. 



He met Hermione, also on her hands and knees, at 
Ron’s head. The moment his eyes fell upon Ron, all 
other concerns fled Harry’s mind, for blood drenched 
the whole of Ron’s left side and his face stood out, 
grayish- white, against the leaf-strewn earth. The 
Polyjuice Potion was wearing off now: Ron was 
halfway between Cattermole and himself in 
appearance, his hair turning redder and redder as his 
face drained of the little color it had left. 

“What’s happened to him?” 

“Splinched,” said Hermione, her fingers already busy 
at Ron’s sleeve, where the blood was wettest and 
darkest. 

Harry watched, horrified, as she tore open Ron’s 
shirt. He had always thought of Splinching as 
something comical, but this . . . His insides crawled 
unpleasantly as Hermione laid bare Ron’s upper arm, 
where a great chunk of flesh was missing, scooped 
cleanly away as though by a knife. 

“Harry, quickly, in my bag, there’s a small bottle 
labeled ‘Essence of Dittany’ — ” 

“Bag — right — ” 

Harry sped to the place where Hermione had landed, 
seized the tiny beaded bag, and thrust his hand 
inside it. At once, object after object began presenting 
itself to his touch: He felt the leather spines of books, 
woolly sleeves of jumpers, heels of shoes — 

“Quickly\” 

Page | 303 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He grabbed his wand from the ground and pointed it 
into the depths of the magical bag. 

“Accio Dittany\” 

A small brown bottle zoomed out of the bag; he 
caught it and hastened back to Hermione and Ron, 
whose eyes were now half-closed, strips of white 
eyeball all that were visible between his lids. 

“He’s fainted,” said Hermione, who was also rather 
pale; she no longer looked like Mafalda, though her 
hair was still gray in places. “Unstopper it for me, 
Harry, my hands are shaking.” 

Harry wrenched the stopper off the little bottle, 
Hermione took it and poured three drops of the potion 
onto the bleeding wound. Greenish smoke billowed 
upward and when it had cleared, Harry saw that the 
bleeding had stopped. The wound now looked several 
days old; new skin stretched over what had just been 
open flesh. 

“Wow,” said Harry. 

“It’s all I feel safe doing,” said Hermione shakily. 
“There are spells that would put him completely right, 
but I daren’t try in case I do them wrong and cause 
more damage. ... He’s lost so much blood already. ...” 

“How did he get hurt? I mean” — Harry shook his 
head, trying to clear it, to make sense of whatever had 
just taken place — “why are we here? I thought we 
were going back to Grimmauld Place?” 

Hermione took a deep breath. She looked close to 
tears. 



Page | 304 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, I don’t think we’re going to be able to go back 
there.” 

“What d’you — ?” 

“As we Disapparated, Yaxley caught hold of me and I 
couldn’t get rid of him, he was too strong, and he was 
still holding on when we arrived at Grimmauld Place, 
and then — well, I think he must have seen the door, 
and thought we were stopping there, so he slackened 
his grip and I managed to shake him off and I brought 
us here instead!” 

“But then, where’s he? Hang on. ... You don’t mean 
he’s at Grimmauld Place? He can’t get in there?” 

Her eyes sparkled with unshed tears as she nodded. 

“Harry, I think he can. I — I forced him to let go with 
a Revulsion Jinx, but I’d already taken him inside the 
Fidelius Charm’s protection. Since Dumbledore died, 
we’re Secret-Keepers, so I’ve given him the secret, 
haven’t I?” 

There was no pretending; Harry was sure she was 
right. It was a serious blow. If Yaxley could now get 
inside the house, there was no way that they could 
return. Even now, he could be bringing other Death 
Eaters in there by Apparition. Gloomy and oppressive 
though the house was, it had been their one safe 
refuge: even, now that Kreacher was so much happier 
and friendlier, a kind of home. With a twinge of regret 
that had nothing to do with food, Harry imagined the 
house-elf busying himself over the steak-and-kidney 
pie that Harry, Ron, and Hermione would never eat. 

“Harry, I’m sorry, I’m so sorry!” 



Page | 305 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t be stupid, it wasn’t your fault! If anything, it 
was mine. ...” 

Harry put his hand in his pocket and drew out Mad- 
Eye’s eye. Hermione recoiled, looking horrified. 

“Umbridge had stuck it to her office door, to spy on 
people. I couldn’t leave it there ... but that’s how they 
knew there were intruders.” 

Before Hermione could answer, Ron groaned and 
opened his eyes. He was still gray and his face 
glistened with sweat. 

“How d’you feel?” Hermione whispered. 

“Lousy,” croaked Ron, wincing as he felt his injured 
arm. “Where are we?” 

“In the woods where they held the Quidditch World 
Cup,” said Hermione. “I wanted somewhere enclosed, 
undercover, and this was — ” 

“ — the first place you thought of,” Harry finished for 
her, glancing around at the apparently deserted 
glade. He could not help remembering what had 
happened the last time they had Apparated to the 
first place Hermione had thought of — how Death 
Eaters had found them within minutes. Had it been 
Legilimency? Did Voldemort or his henchmen know, 
even now, where Hermione had taken them? 

“D’you reckon we should move on?” Ron asked Harry, 
and Harry could tell by the look on Ron’s face that he 
was thinking the same. 

“I dunno.” 



Page | 306 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron still looked pale and clammy. He had made no 
attempt to sit up and it looked as though he was too 
weak to do so. The prospect of moving him was 
daunting. 

“Let’s stay here for now,” Harry said. 

Looking relieved, Hermione sprang to her feet. 

“Where are you going?” asked Ron. 

“If we’re staying, we should put some protective 
enchantments around the place,” she replied, and 
raising her wand, she began to walk in a wide circle 
around Harry and Ron, murmuring incantations as 
she went. Harry saw little disturbances in the 
surrounding air: It was as if Hermione had cast a 
heat haze upon their clearing. 

“Salvio Hexia ... Protego Totalum ... Repello Muggletum 
... Muffliato ... You could get out the tent, Harry. ...” 

“Tent?” 

“In the bag!” 

“In the ... of course,” said Harry. 

He did not bother to grope inside it this time, but 
used another Summoning Charm. The tent emerged 
in a lumpy mass of canvas, rope, and poles. Harry 
recognized it, partly because of the smell of cats, as 
the same tent in which they had slept on the night of 
the Quidditch World Cup. 

“I thought this belonged to that bloke Perkins at the 
Ministry?” he asked, starting to disentangle the tent 
pegs. 



Page | 307 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Apparently he didn’t want it back, his lumbago’s so 
bad,” said Hermione, now performing complicated 
figure-of-eight movements with her wand, “so Ron’s 
dad said I could borrow it. ErectoV’ she added, 
pointing her wand at the misshapen canvas, which in 
one fluid motion rose into the air and settled, fully 
constructed, onto the ground before Harry, out of 
whose startled hands a tent peg soared, to land with 
a final thud at the end of a guy rope. 

“ Cave Inimicum,” Hermione finished with a skyward 
flourish. “That’s as much as I can do. At the very 
least, we should know they’re coming, I can’t 
guarantee it will keep out Vol — ” 

“Don’t say the name!” Ron cut across her, his voice 
harsh. 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other. 

“I’m sorry,” Ron said, moaning a little as he raised 
himself to look at them, “but it feels like a — a jinx or 
something. Can’t we call him You-Know-Who — 
please?” 

“Dumbledore said fear of a name — ” began Harry. 

“In case you hadn’t noticed, mate, calling You-Know- 
Who by his name didn’t do Dumbledore much good in 
the end,” Ron snapped back. “Just — just show You- 
Know-Who some respect, will you?” 

“Respect?” Harry repeated, but Hermione shot him a 
warning look; apparently he was not to argue with 
Ron while the latter was in such a weakened 
condition. 

Harry and Hermione half carried, half dragged Ron 
through the entrance of the tent. The interior was 

Page | 308 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




exactly as Harry remembered it: a small flat, complete 
with bathroom and tiny kitchen. He shoved aside an 
old armchair and lowered Ron carefully onto the lower 
berth of a bunk bed. Even this very short journey had 
turned Ron whiter still, and once they had settled him 
on the mattress he closed his eyes again and did not 
speak for a while. 

“I’ll make some tea,” said Hermione breathlessly, 
pulling kettle and mugs from the depths of her bag 
and heading toward the kitchen. 

Harry found the hot drink as welcome as the 
firewhisky had been on the night that Mad-Eye had 
died; it seemed to burn away a little of the fear 
fluttering in his chest. After a minute or two, Ron 
broke the silence. 

“What d’you reckon happened to the Cattermoles?” 

“With any luck, they’ll have got away,” said Hermione, 
clutching her hot mug for comfort. “As long as Mr. 
Cattermole had his wits about him, he’ll have 
transported Mrs. Cattermole by Side-Along- Apparition 
and they’ll be fleeing the country right now with their 
children. That’s what Harry told her to do.” 

“Blimey, I hope they escaped,” said Ron, leaning back 
on his pillows. The tea seemed to be doing him good; 
a little of his color had returned. “I didn’t get the 
feeling Reg Cattermole was all that quick-witted, 
though, the way everyone was talking to me when I 
was him. God, I hope they made it. ... If they both end 
up in Azkaban because of us ...” 

Harry looked over at Hermione and the question he 
had been about to ask — about whether Mrs. 
Cattermole ’s lack of a wand would prevent her 
Apparating alongside her husband — died in his 

Page | 309 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




throat. Hermione was watching Ron fret over the fate 
of the Cattermoles, and there was such tenderness in 
her expression that Harry felt almost as if he had 
surprised her in the act of kissing him. 

“So, have you got it?” Harry asked her, partly to 
remind her that he was there. 

“Got — got what?” she said with a little start. 

“What did we just go through all that for? The locket! 
Where’s the locket?” 

“ You got it?” shouted Ron, raising himself a little 
higher on his pillows. “No one tells me anything! 
Blimey, you could have mentioned it!” 

“Well, we were running for our lives from the Death 
Eaters, weren’t we?” said Hermione. “Here.” 

And she pulled the locket out of the pocket of her 
robes and handed it to Ron. 

It was as large as a chicken’s egg. An ornate letter S, 
inlaid with many small green stones, glinted dully in 
the diffused light shining through the tent’s canvas 
roof. 

“There isn’t any chance someone’s destroyed it since 
Kreacher had it?” asked Ron hopefully. “I mean, are 
we sure it’s still a Horcrux?” 

“I think so,” said Hermione, taking it back from him 
and looking at it closely. “There ’d be some sign of 
damage if it had been magically destroyed.” 

She passed it to Harry, who turned it over in his 
fingers. The thing looked perfect, pristine. He 
remembered the mangled remains of the diary, and 

Page | 310 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




how the stone in the Horcrux ring had been cracked 
open when Dumbledore destroyed it. 



“I reckon Kreacher’s right,” said Harry. “We’re going to 
have to work out how to open this thing before we can 
destroy it.” 

Sudden awareness of what he was holding, of what 
lived behind the little golden doors, hit Harry as he 
spoke. Even after all their efforts to find it, he felt a 
violent urge to fling the locket from him. Mastering 
himself again, he tried to prise the locket apart with 
his fingers, then attempted the charm Hermione had 
used to open Regulus’s bedroom door. Neither 
worked. He handed the locket back to Ron and 
Hermione, each of whom did their best, but were no 
more successful at opening it than he had been. 

“Can you feel it, though?” Ron asked in a hushed 
voice, as he held it tight in his clenched fist. 

“What d’you mean?” 

Ron passed the Horcrux to Harry. After a moment or 
two, Harry thought he knew what Ron meant. Was it 
his own blood pulsing through his veins that he could 
feel, or was it something beating inside the locket, like 
a tiny metal heart? 

“What are we going to do with it?” Hermione asked. 

“Keep it safe till we work out how to destroy it,” Harry 
replied, and, little though he wanted to, he hung the 
chain around his own neck, dropping the locket out 
of sight beneath his robes, where it rested against his 
chest beside the pouch Hagrid had given him. 

“I think we should take it in turns to keep watch 
outside the tent,” he added to Hermione, standing up 

Page | 311 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




and stretching. “And we’ll need to think about some 
food as well. You stay there,” he added sharply, as 
Ron attempted to sit up and turned a nasty shade of 
green. 

With the Sneakoscope Hermione had given Harry for 
his birthday set carefully upon the table in the tent, 
Harry and Hermione spent the rest of the day sharing 
the role of lookout. However, the Sneakoscope 
remained silent and still upon its point all day, and 
whether because of the protective enchantments and 
Muggle-repelling charms Hermione had spread 
around them, or because people rarely ventured this 
way, their patch of wood remained deserted, apart 
from occasional birds and squirrels. Evening brought 
no change; Harry lit his wand as he swapped places 
with Hermione at ten o’clock, and looked out upon a 
deserted scene, noting the bats fluttering high above 
him across the single patch of starry sky visible from 
their protected clearing. 

He felt hungry now, and a little light-headed. 

Hermione had not packed any food in her magical 
bag, as she had assumed that they would be 
returning to Grimmauld Place that night, so they had 
had nothing to eat except some wild mushrooms that 
Hermione had collected from amongst the nearest 
trees and stewed in a billycan. After a couple of 
mouthfuls Ron had pushed his portion away, looking 
queasy; Harry had only persevered so as not to hurt 
Hermione ’s feelings. 

The surrounding silence was broken by odd rustlings 
and what sounded like crackings of twigs: Harry 
thought that they were caused by animals rather than 
people, yet he kept his wand held tight at the ready. 
His insides, already uncomfortable due to their 
inadequate helping of rubbery mushrooms, tingled 
with unease. 

Page | 312 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He had thought that he would feel elated if they 
managed to steal back the Horcrux, but somehow he 
did not; all he felt as he sat looking out at the 
darkness, of which his wand lit only a tiny part, was 
worry about what would happen next. It was as 
though he had been hurtling toward this point for 
weeks, months, maybe even years, but now he had 
come to an abrupt halt, run out of road. 

There were other Horcruxes out there somewhere, but 
he did not have the faintest idea where they could be. 
He did not even know what all of them were. 
Meanwhile he was at a loss to know how to destroy 
the only one that they had found, the Horcrux that 
currently lay against the bare flesh of his chest. 
Curiously, it had not taken heat from his body, but 
lay so cold against his skin it might just have 
emerged from icy water. From time to time Harry 
thought, or perhaps imagined, that he could feel the 
tiny heartbeat ticking irregularly alongside his own. 

Nameless forebodings crept upon him as he sat there 
in the dark: He tried to resist them, push them away, 
yet they came at him relentlessly. Neither can live 
while the other survives. Ron and Hermione, now 
talking softly behind him in the tent, could walk away 
if they wanted to: He could not. And it seemed to 
Harry as he sat there trying to master his own fear 
and exhaustion, that the Horcrux against his chest 
was ticking away the time he had left. ... Stupid idea, 
he told himself, don’t think that. ... 

His scar was starting to prickle again. He was afraid 
that he was making it happen by having these 
thoughts, and tried to direct them into another 
channel. He thought of poor Kreacher, who had 
expected them home and had received Yaxley instead. 
Would the elf keep silent or would he tell the Death 
Eater everything he knew? Harry wanted to believe 
Page | 313 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




that Kreacher had changed toward him in the past 
month, that he would be loyal now, but who knew 
what would happen? What if the Death Eaters 
tortured the elf? Sick images swarmed into Harry’s 
head and he tried to push these away too, for there 
was nothing he could do for Kreacher: He and 
Hermione had already decided against trying to 
summon him; what if someone from the Ministry 
came too? They could not count on elfish Apparition 
