from the staff almost from the moment of his arrival. 
He seemed polite, quiet, and thirsty for knowledge. 
Nearly all were most favorably impressed by him.” 

“Didn’t you tell them, sir, what he’d been like when 
you met him at the orphanage?” asked Harry. 

“No, I did not. Though he had shown no hint of 
remorse, it was possible that he felt sorry for how he 
had behaved before and was resolved to turn over a 
fresh leaf. I chose to give him that chance.” 

Dumbledore paused and looked inquiringly at Harry, 
who had opened his mouth to speak. Here, again, was 
Dumbledore ’s tendency to trust people in spite of 
overwhelming evidence that they did not deserve it! 
But then Harry remembered something. . . . 

“But you didn’t really trust him, sir, did you? He told 
me . . . the Riddle who came out of that diary said, 

Page | 406 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




‘Dumbledore never seemed to like me as much as the 
other teachers did.’ ” 

“Let us say that I did not take it for granted that he 
was trustworthy,” said Dumbledore. “I had, as I have 
already indicated, resolved to keep a close eye upon 
him, and so I did. I cannot pretend that I gleaned a 
great deal from my observations at first. He was very 
guarded with me; he felt, I am sure, that in the thrill 
of discovering his true identity he had told me a little 
too much. He was careful never to reveal as much 
again, but he could not take back what he had let slip 
in his excitement, nor what Mrs. Cole had confided in 
me. However, he had the sense never to try and 
charm me as he charmed so many of my colleagues. 

“As he moved up the school, he gathered about him a 
group of dedicated friends; I call them that, for want 
of a better term, although as I have already indicated, 
Riddle undoubtedly felt no affection for any of them. 
This group had a kind of dark glamour within the 
castle. They were a motley collection; a mixture of the 
weak seeking protection, the ambitious seeking some 
shared glory, and the thuggish gravitating toward a 
leader who could show them more refined forms of 
cruelty. In other words, they were the forerunners of 
the Death Eaters, and indeed some of them became 
the first Death Eaters after leaving Hogwarts. 

“Rigidly controlled by Riddle, they were never detected 
in open wrongdoing, although their seven years at 
Hogwarts were marked by a number of nasty 
incidents to which they were never satisfactorily 
linked, the most serious of which was, of course, the 
opening of the Chamber of Secrets, which resulted in 
the death of a girl. As you know, Hagrid was wrongly 
accused of that crime. 



Page | 407 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I have not been able to find many memories of Riddle 
at Hogwarts,” said Dumbledore, placing his withered 
hand on the Pensieve. “Few who knew him then are 
prepared to talk about him; they are too terrified. 
What I know, I found out after he had left Hogwarts, 
after much painstaking effort, after tracing those few 
who could be tricked into speaking, after searching 
old records and questioning Muggle and wizard 
witnesses alike. 

“Those whom I could persuade to talk told me that 
Riddle was obsessed with his parentage. This is 
understandable, of course; he had grown up in an 
orphanage and naturally wished to know how he 
came to be there. It seems that he searched in vain 
for some trace of Tom Riddle senior on the shields in 
the trophy room, on the lists of prefects in the old 
school records, even in the books of Wizarding 
history. Finally he was forced to accept that his father 
had never set foot in Hogwarts. I believe that it was 
then that he dropped the name forever, assumed the 
identity of Lord Voldemort, and began his 
investigations into his previously despised mother’s 
family — the woman whom, you will remember, he 
had thought could not be a witch if she had 
succumbed to the shameful human weakness of 
death. 

“All he had to go upon was the single name ‘Marvolo,’ 
which he knew from those who ran the orphanage 
had been his mother’s father’s name. Finally, after 
painstaking research through old books of Wizarding 
families, he discovered the existence of Slytherin’s 
surviving line. In the summer of his sixteenth year, he 
left the orphanage to which he returned annually and 
set off to find his Gaunt relatives. And now, Harry, if 
you will stand ...” 



Page | 408 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore rose, and Harry saw that he was again 
holding a small crystal bottle filled with swirling, 
pearly memory. 

“I was very lucky to collect this,” he said, as he 
poured the gleaming mass into the Pensieve. “As you 
will understand when we have experienced it. Shall 
we?” 

Harry stepped up to the stone basin and bowed 
obediently until his face sank through the surface of 
the memory; he felt the familiar sensation of falling 
through nothingness and then landed upon a dirty 
stone floor in almost total darkness. 

It took him several seconds to recognize the place, by 
which time Dumbledore had landed beside him. The 
Gaunts’ house was now more indescribably filthy 
than anywhere Harry had ever seen. The ceiling was 
thick with cobwebs, the floor coated in grime; moldy 
and rotting food lay upon the table amidst a mass of 
crusted pots. The only light came from a single 
guttering candle placed at the feet of a man with hair 
and beard so overgrown Harry could see neither eyes 
nor mouth. He was slumped in an armchair by the 
fire, and Harry wondered for a moment whether he 
was dead. But then there came a loud knock on the 
door and the man jerked awake, raising a wand in his 
right hand and a short knife in his left. 

The door creaked open. There on the threshold, 
holding an old-fashioned lamp, stood a boy Harry 
recognized at once: tall, pale, dark-haired, and 
handsome — the teenage Voldemort. 

Voldemort’s eyes moved slowly around the hovel and 
then found the man in the armchair. For a few 
seconds they looked at each other, then the man 



Page | 409 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




staggered upright, the many empty bottles at his feet 
clattering and tinkling across the floor. 

“YOU!” he bellowed. “YOU!” 

And he hurtled drunkenly at Riddle, wand and knife 
held aloft. 

“Stop.” 

Riddle spoke in Parseltongue. The man skidded into 
the table, sending moldy pots crashing to the floor. He 
stared at Riddle. There was a long silence while they 
contemplated each other. The man broke it. 

“ You speak it?” 

“Yes, I speak it,” said Riddle. He moved forward into 
the room, allowing the door to swing shut behind 
him. Harry could not help but feel a resentful 
admiration for Voldemort’s complete lack of fear. His 
face merely expressed disgust and, perhaps, 
disappointment. 

“Where is Marvolo?” he asked. 

“Dead,” said the other. “Died years ago, didn’t he?” 
Riddle frowned. 

“ Who are you, then?” 

“I’m Morfin, ain’t 1?” 

“ Marvolo’ s son?” 

“ ’Course I am, then ...” 



Page | 410 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




Morfin pushed the hair out of his dirty face, the better 
to see Riddle, and Harry saw that he wore Marvolo’s 
black-stoned ring on his right hand. 

“I thought you was that Muggle,” whispered Morfin. 

“ You look mighty like that Muggle .” 

“What Muggle?” said Riddle sharply. 

“That Muggle what my sister took a fancy to, that 
Muggle what lives in the big house over the way,” said 
Morfin, and he spat unexpectedly upon the floor 
between them. “You look right like him. Riddle. But 
he’s older now, in ’e? He’s older’n you, now I think on 
it. ...” 

Morfin looked slightly dazed and swayed a little, still 
clutching the edge of the table for support. “He come 
back, see,” he added stupidly. 

Voldemort was gazing at Morfin as though appraising 
his possibilities. Now he moved a little closer and 
said, “Riddle came back?” 

“Ar, he left her, and serve her right, marrying filth\” 
said Morfin, spitting on the floor again. “Robbed us, 
mind, before she ran off! Where’s the locket, eh, 
where’s Slytherin’s locket?” 

Voldemort did not answer. Morfin was working 
himself into a rage again; he brandished his knife and 
shouted, “Dishonored us, she did, that little slut! And 
who’re you, coming here and asking questions about 
all that? It’s over, innit. ... It’s over. ...” 

He looked away, staggering slightly, and Voldemort 
moved forward. As he did so, an unnatural darkness 
fell, extinguishing Voldemort’s lamp and Morfin ’s 
candle, extinguishing everything. ... 

Page | 411 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore’s fingers closed tightly around Harry’s 
arm and they were soaring back into the present 
again. The soft golden light in Dumbledore’s office 
seemed to dazzle Harry’s eyes after that impenetrable 
darkness. 

“Is that all?” said Harry at once. “Why did it go dark, 
what happened?” 

“Because Morfin could not remember anything from 
that point onward,” said Dumbledore, gesturing Harry 
back into his seat. “When he awoke next morning, he 
was lying on the floor, quite alone. Marvolo’s ring had 
gone. 

“Meanwhile, in the village of Little Hangleton, a maid 
was running along the High Street, screaming that 
there were three bodies lying in the drawing room of 
the big house: Tom Riddle Senior and his mother and 
father. 

“The Muggle authorities were perplexed. As far as I 
am aware, they do not know to this day how the 
Riddles died, for the Avada Kedavra curse does not 
usually leave any sign of damage. ... The exception 
sits before me,” Dumbledore added, with a nod to 
Harry’s scar. “The Ministry, on the other hand, knew 
at once that this was a wizard’s murder. They also 
knew that a convicted Muggle-hater lived across the 
valley from the Riddle house, a Muggle-hater who had 
already been imprisoned once for attacking one of the 
murdered people. 

“So the Ministry called upon Morfin. They did not 
need to question him, to use Veritaserum or 
Legilimency. He admitted to the murder on the spot, 
giving details only the murderer could know. He was 
proud, he said, to have killed the Muggles, had been 
awaiting his chance all these years. He handed over 
Page | 412 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




his wand, which was proved at once to have been 
used to kill the Riddles. And he permitted himself to 
be led off to Azkaban without a fight. All that 
disturbed him was the fact that his father’s ring had 
disappeared. ‘He’ll kill me for losing it,’ he told his 
captors over and over again. ‘He’ll kill me for losing 
his ring. ’ And that, apparently, was all he ever said 
again. He lived out the remainder of his life in 
Azkaban, lamenting the loss of Marvolo’s last 
heirloom, and is buried beside the prison, alongside 
the other poor souls who have expired within its 
walls.” 

“So Voldemort stole Morfin’s wand and used it?” said 
Harry, sitting up straight. 

“That’s right,” said Dumbledore. “We have no 
memories to show us this, but I think we can be fairly 
sure what happened. Voldemort Stupefied his uncle, 
took his wand, and proceeded across the valley to ‘the 
big house over the way. ’ There he murdered the 
Muggle man who had abandoned his witch mother, 
and, for good measure, his Muggle grandparents, 
thus obliterating the last of the unworthy Riddle line 
and revenging himself upon the father who never 
wanted him. Then he returned to the Gaunt hovel, 
performed the complex bit of magic that would 
implant a false memory in his uncle’s mind, laid 
Morfin’s wand beside its unconscious owner, 
pocketed the ancient ring he wore, and departed.” 

“And Morfin never realized he hadn’t done it?” 

“Never,” said Dumbledore. “He gave, as I say, a full 
and boastful confession.” 

“But he had this real memory in him all the time!” 



Page | 413 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, but it took a great deal of skilled Legilimency to 
coax it out of him,” said Dumbledore, “and why 
should anybody delve further into Morfin’s mind 
when he had already confessed to the crime? 

However, I was able to secure a visit to Morfin in the 
last weeks of his life, by which time I was attempting 
to discover as much as I could about Voldemort’s 
past. I extracted this memory with difficulty. When I 
saw what it contained, I attempted to use it to secure 
Morfin’s release from Azkaban. Before the Ministry 
reached their decision, however, Morfin had died.” 

“But how come the Ministry didn’t realize that 
Voldemort had done all that to Morfin?” Harry asked 
angrily. “He was underage at the time, wasn’t he? I 
thought they could detect underage magic!” 

“You are quite right — they can detect magic, but not 
the perpetrator: You will remember that you were 
blamed by the Ministry for the Hover Charm that was, 
in fact, cast by — ” 

“Dobby,” growled Harry; this injustice still rankled. 

“So if you’re underage and you do magic inside an 
adult witch or wizard’s house, the Ministry won’t 
know?” 

“They will certainly be unable to tell who performed 
the magic,” said Dumbledore, smiling slightly at the 
look of great indignation on Harry’s face. “They rely 
on witch and wizard parents to enforce their 
offspring’s obedience while within their walls.” 

“Well, that’s rubbish,” snapped Harry. “Look what 
happened here, look what happened to Morfin!” 

“I agree,” said Dumbledore. “Whatever Morfin was, he 
did not deserve to die as he did, blamed for murders 



Page | 414 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




he had not committed. But it is getting late, and I 
want you to see this other memory before we part. ...” 



Dumbledore took from an inside pocket another 
crystal phial and Harry fell silent at once, 
remembering that Dumbledore had said it was the 
most important one he had collected. Harry noticed 
that the contents proved difficult to empty into the 
Pensieve, as though they had congealed slightly; did 
memories go bad? 

“This will not take long,” said Dumbledore, when he 
had finally emptied the phial. “We shall be back 
before you know it. Once more into the Pensieve, then 



And Harry fell again through the silver surface, 
landing this time right in front of a man he recognized 
at once. 

It was a much younger Horace Slughorn. Harry was 
so used to him bald that he found the sight of 
Slughorn with thick, shiny, straw-colored hair quite 
disconcerting; it looked as though he had had his 
head thatched, though there was already a shiny 
Galleon-sized bald patch on his crown. His mustache, 
less massive than it was these days, was gingery- 
blond. He was not quite as rotund as the Slughorn 
Harry knew, though the golden buttons on his richly 
embroidered waistcoat were taking a fair amount of 
strain. His little feet resting upon a velvet pouffe, he 
was sitting well back in a comfortable winged 
armchair, one hand grasping a small glass of wine, 
the other searching through a box of crystalized 
pineapple. 

Harry looked around as Dumbledore appeared beside 
him and saw that they were standing in Slughorn ’s 
office. Half a dozen boys were sitting around 

Page | 415 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Slughorn, all on harder or lower seats than his, and 
all in their mid-teens. Harry recognized Voldemort at 
once. His was the most handsome face and he looked 
the most relaxed of all the boys. His right hand lay 
negligently upon the arm of his chair; with a jolt, 
Harry saw that he was wearing Marvolo’s gold-and- 
black ring; he had already killed his father. 

“Sir, is it true that Professor Merrythought is 
retiring?” he asked. 

“Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell you,” said 
Slughorn, wagging a reproving, sugar-covered finger 
at Riddle, though ruining the effect slightly by 
winking. “I must say, I’d like to know where you get 
your information, boy, more knowledgeable than half 
the staff, you are.” 

Riddle smiled; the other boys laughed and cast him 
admiring looks. 

“What with your uncanny ability to know things you 
shouldn’t, and your careful flattery of the people who 
matter — thank you for the pineapple, by the way, 
you’re quite right, it is my favorite — ” 

As several of the boys tittered, something very odd 
happened. The whole room was suddenly filled with a 
thick white fog, so that Harry could see nothing but 
the face of Dumbledore, who was standing beside 
him. Then Slughorn ’s voice rang out through the 
mist, unnaturally loudly, “ You’ll go wrong, boy, mark 
my words.” 

The fog cleared as suddenly as it had appeared and 
yet nobody made any allusion to it, nor did anybody 
look as though anything unusual had just happened. 
Bewildered, Harry looked around as a small golden 



Page | 416 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




clock standing upon Slughorn’s desk chimed eleven 
o’clock. 

“Good gracious, is it that time already?” said 
Slughorn. “You’d better get going, boys, or we’ll all be 
in trouble. Lestrange, I want your essay by tomorrow 
or it’s detention. Same goes for you, Avery.” 

Slughorn pulled himself out of his armchair and 
carried his empty glass over to his desk as the boys 
filed out. Voldemort, however, stayed behind. Harry 
could tell he had dawdled deliberately, wanting to be 
last in the room with Slughorn. 

“Look sharp, Tom,” said Slughorn, turning around 
and finding him still present. “You don’t want to be 
caught out of bed out of hours, and you a prefect ...” 

“Sir, I wanted to ask you something.” 

“Ask away, then, m’boy, ask away. ...” 

“Sir, I wondered what you know about . . . about 
Horcruxes?” 

And it happened all over again: The dense fog filled 
the room so that Harry could not see Slughorn or 
Voldemort at all; only Dumbledore, smiling serenely 
beside him. Then Slughorn’s voice boomed out again, 
just as it had done before. 

“I don’t know anything about Horcruxes and I wouldn’t 
tell you if I did! Now get out of here at once and don’t 
let me catch you mentioning them again\” 

“Well, that’s that,” said Dumbledore placidly beside 
Harry. “Time to go.” 



Page | 417 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




And Harry’s feet left the floor to fall, seconds later, 
back onto the mg in front of Dumbledore’s desk. 



“That’s all there is?” said Harry blankly. 

Dumbledore had said that this was the most 
important memory of all, but he could not see what 
was so significant about it. Admittedly the fog, and 
the fact that nobody seemed to have noticed it, was 
odd, but other than that nothing seemed to have 
happened except that Voldemort had asked a 
question and failed to get an answer. 

“As you might have noticed,” said Dumbledore, 
reseating himself behind his desk, “that memory has 
been tampered with.” 

“Tampered with?” repeated Harry, sitting back down 
too. 

“Certainly,” said Dumbledore. “Professor Slughorn 
has meddled with his own recollections.” 

“But why would he do that?” 

“Because, I think, he is ashamed of what he 
remembers,” said Dumbledore. “He has tried to 
rework the memory to show himself in a better light, 
obliterating those parts which he does not wish me to 
see. It is, as you will have noticed, very crudely done, 
and that is all to the good, for it shows that the true 
memory is still there beneath the alterations. 

“And so, for the first time, I am giving you homework, 
Harry. It will be your job to persuade Professor 
Slughorn to divulge the real memory, which will 
undoubtedly be our most crucial piece of information 
of all.” 

Page | 418 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared at him. 

“But surely, sir,” he said, keeping his voice as 
respectful as possible, “you don’t need me — you 
could use Legilimency ... or Veritaserum. ...” 

“Professor Slughorn is an extremely able wizard who 
will be expecting both,” said Dumbledore. “He is 
much more accomplished at Occlumency than poor 
Morfin Gaunt, and I would be astonished if he has 
not carried an antidote to Veritaserum with him ever 
since I coerced him into giving me this travesty of a 
recollection. 

“No, I think it would be foolish to attempt to wrest the 
truth from Professor Slughorn by force, and might do 
much more harm than good; I do not wish him to 
leave Hogwarts. However, he has his weaknesses like 
the rest of us, and I believe that you are the one 
person who might be able to penetrate his defenses. It 
is most important that we secure the true memory, 
Harry. ... How important, we will only know when we 
have seen the real thing. So, good luck ... and good 
night.” 

A little taken aback by the abrupt dismissal, Harry 
got to his feet quickly. “Good night, sir.” 

As he closed the study door behind him, he distinctly 
heard Phineas Nigellus say, “I can’t see why the boy 
should be able to do it better than you, Dumbledore.” 

“I wouldn’t expect you to, Phineas,” replied 
Dumbledore, and Fawkes gave another low, musical 
cry. 



Page | 419 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






BIRTHDAY SURPRISES 

The next day Harry confided in both Ron and 
Hermione the task that Dumbledore had set him, 
though separately, for Hermione still refused to 
remain in Ron’s presence longer than it took to give 
him a contemptuous look. 

Ron thought that Harry was unlikely to have any 
trouble with Slughorn at all. 

“He loves you,” he said over breakfast, waving an airy 
forkful of fried egg. “Won’t refuse you anything, will 
he? Not his little Potions Prince. Just hang back after 
class this afternoon and ask him.” 

Hermione, however, took a gloomier view. “He must 
be determined to hide what really happened if 
Dumbledore couldn’t get it out of him,” she said in a 
low voice, as they stood in the deserted, snowy 
courtyard at break. “Horcruxes ... Horcruxes ... I’ve 
never even heard of them. ...” 



Page | 420 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“You haven’t?” Harry was disappointed; he had hoped 
that Hermione might have been able to give him a 
clue as to what Horcruxes were. 



“They must be really advanced Dark Magic, or why 
would Voldemort have wanted to know about them? I 
think it’s going to be difficult to get the information, 
Harry, you’ll have to be very careful about how you 
approach Slughorn, think out a strategy. ...” 

“Ron reckons I should just hang back after Potions 
this afternoon. ...” 

“Oh, well, if Won-Won thinks that, you’d better do it,” 
she said, flaring up at once. “After all, when has Won- 
Won’s judgment ever been faulty?” 

“Hermione, can’t you — ?” 

“iVo!” she said angrily, and stormed away, leaving 
Harry alone and ankle-deep in snow. 

Potions lessons were uncomfortable enough these 
days, seeing as Harry, Ron, and Hermione had to 
share a desk. Today, Hermione moved her cauldron 
around the table so that she was close to Ernie, and 
ignored both Harry and Ron. 

“What’ve you done?” Ron muttered to Harry, looking 
at Hermione ’s haughty profile. 

But before Harry could answer, Slughorn was calling 
for silence from the front of the room. 

“Settle down, settle down, please! Quickly, now, lots 
of work to get through this afternoon! Golpalott’s 
Third Law ... who can tell me — ? But Miss Granger 
can, of course!” 

Page | 421 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione recited at top speed: “Golpalott’s-Third- 
Law-states-that-the-antidote-for-a-blended-poison- 
will-be-equal-to-more-than-the-sum-of-the-antidotes- 
for-each-of-the-separate-components.” 

“Precisely!” beamed Slughorn. “Ten points for 
Gryffindor! Now, if we accept Golpalott’s Third Law as 
true ...” 

Harry was going to have to take Slughorn ’s word for it 
that Golpalott’s Third Law was true, because he had 
not understood any of it. Nobody apart from 
Hermione seemed to be following what Slughorn said 
next either. 

"... which means, of course, that assuming we have 
achieved correct identification of the potion’s 
ingredients by Scarpin’s Revelaspell, our primary aim 
is not the relatively simple one of selecting antidotes 
to those ingredients in and of themselves, but to find 
that added component that will, by an almost 
alchemical process, transform these disparate 
elements — ” 

Ron was sitting beside Harry with his mouth half 
open, doodling absently on his new copy of Advanced 
Potion-Making. Ron kept forgetting that he could no 
longer rely on Hermione to help him out of trouble 
when he failed to grasp what was going on. 

"... and so,” finished Slughorn, “I want each of you to 
come and take one of these phials from my desk. You 
are to create an antidote for the poison within it 
before the end of the lesson. Good luck, and don’t 
forget your protective gloves!” 

Hermione had left her stool and was halfway toward 
Slughorn ’s desk before the rest of the class had 
realized it was time to move, and by the time Harry, 

Page | 422 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron, and Ernie returned to the table, she had already 
tipped the contents of her phial into her cauldron and 
was kindling a fire underneath it. 

“It’s a shame that the Prince won’t be able to help you 
much with this, Harry,” she said brightly as she 
straightened up. “You have to understand the 
principles involved this time. No shortcuts or cheats!” 

Annoyed, Harry uncorked the poison he had taken 
from Slughorn’s desk, which was a garish shade of 
pink, tipped it into his cauldron, and lit a fire 
underneath it. He did not have the faintest idea what 
he was supposed to do next. He glanced around at 
Ron, who was now standing there looking rather 
gormless, having copied everything Harry had done. 

“You sure the Prince hasn’t got any tips?” Ron 
muttered to Harry. 

Harry pulled out his trusty copy of Advanced Potion- 
Making and turned to the chapter on antidotes. There 
was Golpalott’s Third Law, stated word for word as 
Hermione had recited it, but not a single illuminating 
note in the Prince’s hand to explain what it meant. 
Apparently the Prince, like Hermione, had had no 
difficulty understanding it. 

“Nothing,” said Harry gloomily. 

Hermione was now waving her wand enthusiastically 
over her cauldron. Unfortunately, they could not copy 
the spell she was doing because she was now so good 
at nonverbal incantations that she did not need to say 
the words aloud. Ernie Macmillan, however, was 
muttering, “Specialis Reveliol” over his cauldron, 
which sounded impressive, so Harry and Ron 
hastened to imitate him. 



Page | 423 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




It took Harry only five minutes to realize that his 
reputation as the best potion-maker in the class was 
crashing around his ears. Slughorn had peered 
hopefully into his cauldron on his first circuit of the 
dungeon, preparing to exclaim in delight as he 
usually did, and instead had withdrawn his head 
hastily, coughing, as the smell of bad eggs 
overwhelmed him. Hermione’s expression could not 
have been any smugger; she had loathed being 
outperformed in every Potions class. She was now 
decanting the mysteriously separated ingredients of 
her poison into ten different crystal phials. More to 
avoid watching this irritating sight than anything 
else, Harry bent over the Half-Blood Prince’s book and 
turned a few pages with unnecessary force. 

And there it was, scrawled right across a long list of 
antidotes: 

Just shove a bezoar down their throats. 

Harry stared at these words for a moment. Hadn’t he 
once, long ago, heard of bezoars? Hadn’t Snape 
mentioned them in their first-ever Potions lesson? “A 
stone taken from the stomach of a goat, which will 
protect from most poisons.” 

It was not an answer to the Golpalott problem, and 
had Snape still been their teacher, Harry would not 
have dared do it, but this was a moment for desperate 
measures. He hastened toward the store cupboard 
and rummaged within it, pushing aside unicorn 
horns and tangles of dried herbs until he found, at 
the very back, a small cardboard box on which had 
been scribbled the word bezoars. 

He opened the box just as Slughorn called, “Two 
minutes left, everyone!” Inside were half a dozen 



Page | 424 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




shriveled brown objects, looking more like dried-up 
kidneys than real stones. Harry seized one, put the 
box back in the cupboard, and hurried back to his 
cauldron. 

“Time’s ... UP!” called Slughorn genially. “Well, let’s 
see how you’ve done! Blaise ... what have you got for 
me?” 

Slowly, Slughorn moved around the room, examining 
the various antidotes. Nobody had finished the task, 
although Hermione was trying to cram a few more 
ingredients into her bottle before Slughorn reached 
her. Ron had given up completely, and was merely 
trying to avoid breathing in the putrid fumes issuing 
from his cauldron. Harry stood there waiting, the 
bezoar clutched in a slightly sweaty hand. 

Slughorn reached their table last. He sniffed Ernie’s 
potion and passed on to Ron’s with a grimace. He did 
not linger over Ron’s cauldron, but backed away 
swiftly, retching slightly. 

“And you, Harry,” he said. “What have you got to 
show me?” 

Harry held out his hand, the bezoar sitting on his 
palm. 

Slughorn looked down at it for a full ten seconds. 
Harry wondered, for a moment, whether he was going 
to shout at him. Then he threw back his head and 
roared with laughter. 

“You’ve got nerve, boy!” he boomed, taking the bezoar 
and holding it up so that the class could see it. “Oh, 
you’re like your mother. ... Well, I can’t fault you. ... A 
bezoar would certainly act as an antidote to all these 
potions!” 

Page | 425 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione, who was sweaty-faced and had soot on her 
nose, looked livid. Her half-finished antidote, 
comprising fifty-two ingredients, including a chunk of 
her own hair, bubbled sluggishly behind Slughorn, 
who had eyes for nobody but Harry. 

“And you thought of a bezoar all by yourself, did you, 
Harry?” she asked through gritted teeth. 

“That’s the individual spirit a real potion-maker 
needs!” said Slughorn happily, before Harry could 
reply. “Just like his mother, she had the same 
intuitive grasp of potion-making, it’s undoubtedly 
from Lily he gets it. ... Yes, Harry, yes, if you’ve got a 
bezoar to hand, of course that would do the trick . . . 
although as they don’t work on everything, and are 
pretty rare, it’s still worth knowing how to mix 
antidotes. ...” 

The only person in the room looking angrier than 
Hermione was Malfoy, who, Harry was pleased to see, 
had spilled something that looked like cat-sick over 
himself. Before either of them could express their fury 
that Harry had come top of the class by not doing any 
work, however, the bell rang. 

“Time to pack up!” said Slughorn. “And an extra ten 
points to Gryffindor for sheer cheek!” 

Still chuckling, he waddled back to his desk at the 
front of the dungeon. 

Harry dawdled behind, taking an inordinate amount 
of time to do up his bag. Neither Ron nor Hermione 
wished him luck as they left; both looked rather 
annoyed. At last Harry and Slughorn were the only 
two left in the room. 



Page | 426 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on, now, Harry, you’ll be late for your next 
lesson,” said Slughorn affably, snapping the gold 
clasps shut on his dragon- skin briefcase. 

“Sir,” said Harry, reminding himself irresistibly of 
Voldemort, “I wanted to ask you something.” 

“Ask away, then, my dear boy, ask away. ...” 

“Sir, I wondered what you know about . . . about 
Horcruxes?” 

Slughorn froze. His round face seemed to sink in 
upon itself. He licked his lips and said hoarsely, 

“What did you say?” 

“I asked whether you know anything about 
Horcruxes, sir. You see — ” 

“Dumbledore put you up to this,” whispered 
Slughorn. His voice had changed completely. It was 
not genial anymore, but shocked, terrified. He 
fumbled in his breast pocket and pulled out a 
handkerchief, mopping his sweating brow. 
“Dumbledore’s shown you that — that memory. Well? 
Hasn’t he?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, deciding on the spot that it was 
best not to lie. 

“Yes, of course,” said Slughorn quietly, still dabbing 
at his white face. “Of course ... well, if you’ve seen 
that memory, Harry, you’ll know that I don’t know 
anything — anything” — he repeated the word 
forcefully — “about Horcruxes.” 

He seized his dragon-skin briefcase, stuffed his 
handkerchief back into his pocket, and marched to 
the dungeon door. 

Page | 427 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Sir,” said Harry desperately, “I just thought there 
might be a bit more to the memory — ” 

“Did you?” said Slughorn. “Then you were wrong, 
weren’t you? WRONG!” 

He bellowed the last word and, before Harry could say 
another word, slammed the dungeon door behind 
him. 

Neither Ron nor Hermione was at all sympathetic 
when Harry told them of this disastrous interview. 
Hermione was still seething at the way Harry had 
triumphed without doing the work properly. Ron was 
resentful that Harry hadn’t slipped him a bezoar too. 

“It would’ve just looked stupid if we’d both done it!” 
said Harry irritably. “Look, I had to try and soften him 
up so I could ask him about Voldemort, didn’t I? Oh, 
will you get a grip\” he added in exasperation, as Ron 
winced at the sound of the name. 

Infuriated by his failure and by Ron’s and Hermione’s 
attitudes, Harry brooded for the next few days over 
what to do next about Slughorn. He decided that, for 
the time being, he would let Slughorn think that he 
had forgotten all about Horcruxes; it was surely best 
to lull him into a false sense of security before 
returning to the attack. 

When Harry did not question Slughorn again, the 
Potions master reverted to his usual affectionate 
treatment of him, and appeared to have put the 
