asked her how much longer she was going to keep it. 
...” He screwed up his face and imitated Professor 
McGonagall’s severe voice. “ ‘As long as necessary, 
Wood’ ... I reckon it’s time you ordered a new broom, 
Harry. There’s an order form at the back of Which 
Broomstick ... you could get a Nimbus Two Thousand 
and One, like Malfoy’s got.” 

“I’m not buying anything Malfoy thinks is good,” said 
Harry flatly. 

January faded imperceptibly into February, with no 
change in the bitterly cold weather. The match 
against Ravenclaw was drawing nearer and nearer, 
but Harry still hadn’t ordered a new broom. He was 
now asking Professor McGonagall for news of the 
Firebolt after every Transfiguration lesson, Ron 



Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




standing hopefully at his shoulder, Hermione rushing 
past with her face averted. 

“No, Potter, you can’t have it back yet,” Professor 
McGonagall told him the twelfth time this happened, 
before he’d even opened his mouth. “We’ve checked 
for most of the usual curses, but Professor Flitwick 
believes the broom might be carrying a Hurling Hex. I 
shall tell you once we’ve finished checking it. Now, 
please stop badgering me.” 

To make matters even worse, Harry’s anti-dementor 
lessons were not going nearly as well as he had 
hoped. Several sessions on, he was able to produce 
an indistinct, silvery shadow every time the boggart- 
dementor approached him, but his Patronus was too 
feeble to drive the dementor away. All it did was 
hover, like a semi-transparent cloud, draining Harry 
of energy as he fought to keep it there. Harry felt 
angry with himself, guilty about his secret desire to 
hear his parents’ voices again. 

“You’re expecting too much of yourself,” said 
Professor Lupin sternly in their fourth week of 
practice. “For a thirteen-year-old wizard, even an 
indistinct Patronus is a huge achievement. You aren’t 
passing out anymore, are you?” 

“I thought a Patronus would — charge the dementors 
down or something,” said Harry dispiritedly. “Make 
them disappear — ” 

“The true Patronus does do that,” said Lupin. “But 
you’ve achieved a great deal in a very short space of 
time. If the dementors put in an appearance at your 
next Quidditch match, you will be able to keep them 
at bay long enough to get back to the ground.” 



Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You said it’s harder if there are loads of them,” said 
Harry. 

“I have complete confidence in you,” said Lupin, 
smiling. “Here — you’ve earned a drink — something 
from the Three Broomsticks. You won’t have tried it 
before — ” 

He pulled two bottles out of his briefcase. 

“Butterbeer!” said Harry, without thinking. “Yeah, I 
like that stuff!” 

Lupin raised an eyebrow. 

“Oh — Ron and Hermione brought me some back 
from Hogsmeade,” Harry lied quickly. 

“I see,” said Lupin, though he still looked slightly 
suspicious. “Well — let’s drink to a Gryffindor victory 
against Ravenclaw! Not that I’m supposed to take 
sides, as a teacher ... ,” he added hastily. 

They drank the butterbeer in silence, until Harry 
voiced something he’d been wondering for a while. 

“What’s under a dementor’s hood?” 

Professor Lupin lowered his bottle thoughtfully. 

“Hmmm ... well, the only people who really know are 
in no condition to tell us. You see, the dementor 
lowers its hood only to use its last and worst 
weapon.” 

“What’s that?” 

“They call it the Dementor’s Kiss,” said Lupin, with a 
slightly twisted smile. “It’s what dementors do to 

Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




those they wish to destroy utterly. I suppose there 
must be some kind of mouth under there, because 
they clamp their jaws upon the mouth of the victim 
and — and suck out his soul.” 

Harry accidentally spat out a bit of butterbeer. 

“What — they kill — ?” 

“Oh no,” said Lupin. “Much worse than that. You can 
exist without your soul, you know, as long as your 
brain and heart are still working. But you 11 have no 
sense of self anymore, no memory, no ... anything. 
There’s no chance at all of recovery. You’ll just — 
exist. As an empty shell. And your soul is gone forever 
... lost.” 

Lupin drank a little more butterbeer, then said, “It’s 
the fate that awaits Sirius Black. It was in the Daily 
Prophet this morning. The Ministry have given the 
dementors permission to perform it if they find him.” 

Harry sat stunned for a moment at the idea of 
someone having their soul sucked out through their 
mouth. But then he thought of Black. 

“He deserves it,” he said suddenly. 

“You think so?” said Lupin lightly. “Do you really 
think anyone deserves that?” 

“Yes,” said Harry defiantly. “For ... for some things ...” 

He would have liked to have told Lupin about the 
conversation he’d overheard about Black in the Three 
Broomsticks, about Black betraying his mother and 
father, but it would have involved revealing that he’d 
gone to Hogsmeade without permission, and he knew 
Lupin wouldn’t be very impressed by that. So he 
Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




finished his butterbeer, thanked Lupin, and left the 
History of Magic classroom. 

Harry half wished that he hadn’t asked what was 
under a dementor’s hood, the answer had been so 
horrible, and he was so lost in unpleasant thoughts of 
what it would feel like to have your soul sucked out of 
you that he walked headlong into Professor 
McGonagall halfway up the stairs. 

“Do watch where you’re going, Potter!” 

“Sorry, Professor — ” 

“I’ve just been looking for you in the Gryffindor 
common room. Well, here it is, we’ve done everything 
we could think of, and there doesn’t seem to be 
anything wrong with it at all. You’ve got a very good 
friend somewhere, Potter. ...” 

Harry’s jaw dropped. She was holding out his 
Firebolt, and it looked as magnificent as ever. 

“I can have it back?” Harry said weakly. “Seriously?” 

“Seriously,” said Professor McGonagall, and she was 
actually smiling. “I daresay you’ll need to get the feel 
of it before Saturday’s match, won’t you? And Potter 
— do try and win, won’t you? Or we’ll be out of the 
running for the eighth year in a row, as Professor 
Snape was kind enough to remind me only last night. 



Speechless, Harry carried the Firebolt back upstairs 
toward Gryffindor Tower. As he turned a corner, he 
saw Ron dashing toward him, grinning from ear to 
ear. 



Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“She gave it to you? Excellent! Listen, can I still have 
a go on it? Tomorrow?” 

“Yeah ... anything ... said Harry, his heart lighter 
than it had been in a month. “You know what — we 
should make up with Hermione. ... She was only 
trying to help. ...” 

“Yeah, all right,” said Ron. “She’s in the common 
room now — working, for a change — ” 

They turned into the corridor to Gryffindor Tower and 
saw Neville Longbottom, pleading with Sir Cadogan, 
who seemed to be refusing him entrance. 

“I wrote them down!” Neville was saying tearfully. 

“But I must’ve dropped them somewhere!” 

“A likely tale!” roared Sir Cadogan. Then, spotting 
Harry and Ron: “Good even, my fine young yeomen! 
Come clap this loon in irons. He is trying to force 
entry to the chambers within!” 

“Oh, shut up,” said Ron as he and Harry drew level 
with Neville. 

“I’ve lost the passwords!” Neville told them miserably. 
“I made him tell me what passwords he was going to 
use this week, because he keeps changing them, and 
now I don’t know what I’ve done with them!” 

“Oddsbodikins,” said Harry to Sir Cadogan, who 
looked extremely disappointed and reluctantly swung 
forward to let them into the common room. There was 
a sudden, excited murmur as every head turned and 
the next moment, Harry was surrounded by people 
exclaiming over his Firebolt. 

“Where ’d you get it, Harry?” 

Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Will you let me have a go?” 

“Have you ridden it yet, Harry?” 

“Ravenclaw’ll have no chance, they’re all on 
Cleansweep Sevens!” 

“Can I just hold it, Harry?” 

After ten minutes or so, during which the Firebolt was 
passed around and admired from every angle, the 
crowd dispersed and Harry and Ron had a clear view 
of Hermione, the only person who hadn’t rushed over 
to them, bent over her work and carefully avoiding 
their eyes. Harry and Ron approached her table and 
at last, she looked up. 

“I got it back,” said Harry, grinning at her and holding 
up the Firebolt. 

“See, Hermione? There wasn’t anything wrong with 
it!” said Ron. 

“Well — there might have been!” said Hermione. “I 
mean, at least you know now that it’s safe!” 

“Yeah, I suppose so,” said Harry. “I’d better put it 
upstairs — ” 

“I’ll take it!” said Ron eagerly. “I’ve got to give 
Scabbers his rat tonic.” 

He took the Firebolt and, holding it as if it were made 
of glass, carried it away up the boys’ staircase. 

“Can I sit down, then?” Harry asked Hermione. 

“I suppose so,” said Hermione, moving a great stack 
of parchment off a chair. 

Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked around at the cluttered table, at the 
long Arithmancy essay on which the ink was still 
glistening, at the even longer Muggle Studies essay 
(“Explain Why Muggles Need Electricity”) and at the 
rune translation Hermione was now poring over. 

“How are you getting through all this stuff?” Harry 
asked her. 

“Oh, well — you know — working hard,” said 
Hermione. Close-up, Harry saw that she looked 
almost as tired as Lupin. 

“Why don’t you just drop a couple of subjects?” Harry 
asked, watching her lifting books as she searched for 
her rune dictionary. 

“I couldn’t do that!” said Hermione, looking 
scandalized. 

“Arithmancy looks terrible,” said Harry, picking up a 
very complicated-looking number chart. 

“Oh no, it’s wonderful!” said Hermione earnestly. “It’s 
my favorite subject! It’s — ” 

But exactly what was wonderful about Arithmancy, 
Harry never found out. At that precise moment, a 
strangled yell echoed down the boys’ staircase. The 
whole common room fell silent, staring, petrified, at 
the entrance. Then came hurried footsteps, growing 
louder and louder — and then Ron came leaping into 
view, dragging with him a bedsheet. 

“LOOK!” he bellowed, striding over to Hermione’s 
table. “LOOK!” he yelled, shaking the sheets in her 
face. 

“Ron, what — ?” 

Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“SCABBERS! LOOK! SCABBERS!” 



Hermione was leaning away from Ron, looking utterly 
bewildered. Harry looked down at the sheet Ron was 
holding. There was something red on it. Something 
that looked horribly like — 

“BLOOD!” Ron yelled into the stunned silence. “HE’S 
GONE! AND YOU KNOW WHAT WAS ON THE 
FLOOR?” 

“N — no,” said Hermione in a trembling voice. 

Ron threw something down onto Hermione ’s rune 
translation. Hermione and Harry leaned forward. 
Lying on top of the weird, spiky shapes were several 
long, ginger cat hairs. 



Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






GRYFFINDOR VERSUS RAVENCLAW 

It looked like the end of Ron and Hermione’s 
friendship. Each was so angry with the other that 
Harry couldn’t see how they’d ever make up. 

Ron was enraged that Hermione had never taken 
Crookshanks’s attempts to eat Scabbers seriously, 
hadn’t bothered to keep a close enough watch on him, 
and was still trying to pretend that Crookshanks was 
innocent by suggesting that Ron look for Scabbers 
under all the boys’ beds. Hermione, meanwhile, 
maintained fiercely that Ron had no proof that 
Crookshanks had eaten Scabbers, that the ginger 
hairs might have been there since Christmas, and 
that Ron had been prejudiced against her cat ever 
since Crookshanks had landed on Ron’s head in the 
Magical Menagerie. 

Personally, Harry was sure that Crookshanks had 
eaten Scabbers, and when he tried to point out to 
Hermione that the evidence all pointed that way, she 
lost her temper with Harry too. 



Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“Okay, side with Ron, I knew you would!” she said 
shrilly. “First the Firebolt, now Scabbers, everything’s 
my fault, isn’t it! Just leave me alone, Harry, I’ve got a 
lot of work to do!” 

Ron had taken the loss of his rat very hard indeed. 

“Come on, Ron, you were always saying how boring 
Scabbers was,” said Fred bracingly “And he’s been 
off-color for ages, he was wasting away. It was 
probably better for him to snuff it quickly — one 
swallow — he probably didn’t feel a thing.” 

“Fred\” said Ginny indignantly. 

“All he did was eat and sleep, Ron, you said it 
yourself,” said George. 

“He bit Goyle for us once!” Ron said miserably. 
“Remember, Harry?” 

“Yeah, that’s true,” said Harry. 

“His finest hour,” said Fred, unable to keep a straight 
face. “Let the scar on Goyle ’s finger stand as a lasting 
tribute to his memory. Oh, come on, Ron, get yourself 
down to Hogsmeade and buy a new rat, what’s the 
point of moaning?” 

In a last-ditch attempt to cheer Ron up, Harry 
persuaded him to come along to the Gryffindor team’s 
final practice before the Ravenclaw match, so that he 
could have a ride on the Firebolt after they’d finished. 
This did seem to take Ron’s mind off Scabbers for a 
moment (“Great! Can I try and shoot a few goals on 
it?”) so they set off for the Quidditch field together. 

Madam Hooch, who was still overseeing Gryffindor 
practices to keep an eye on Harry, was just as 

Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




impressed with the Firebolt as everyone else had 
been. She took it in her hands before takeoff and gave 
them the benefit of her professional opinion. 

“Look at the balance on it! If the Nimbus series has a 
fault, it’s a slight list to the tail end — you often find 
they develop a drag after a few years. They’ve updated 
the handle too, a bit slimmer than the Cleansweeps, 
reminds me of the old Silver Arrows — a pity they’ve 
stopped making them. I learned to fly on one, and a 
very fine old broom it was too. ...” 

She continued in this vein for some time, until Wood 
said, “Er — Madam Hooch? Is it okay if Harry has the 
Firebolt back? We need to practice. ...” 

“Oh — right — here you are, then, Potter,” said 
Madam Hooch. “I’ll sit over here with Weasley ...” 

She and Ron left the field to sit in the stadium, and 
the Gryffindor team gathered around Wood for his 
final instructions for tomorrow’s match. 

“Harry, I’ve just found out who Ravenclaw is playing 
as Seeker. It’s Cho Chang. She’s a fourth year, and 
she’s pretty good. ... I really hoped she wouldn’t be fit, 
she’s had some problems with injuries. ...” Wood 
scowled his displeasure that Cho Chang had made a 
full recovery, then said, “On the other hand, she rides 
a Comet Two Sixty, which is going to look like a joke 
next to the Firebolt.” He gave Harry’s broom a look of 
fervent admiration, then said, “Okay, everyone, let’s 
go 



And at long last, Harry mounted his Firebolt, and 
kicked off from the ground. 

It was better than he’d ever dreamed. The Firebolt 
turned with the lightest touch; it seemed to obey his 

Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




thoughts rather than his grip; it sped across the field 
at such speed that the stadium turned into a green- 
and-gray blur; Harry turned it so sharply that Alicia 
Spinnet screamed, then he went into a perfectly 
controlled dive, brushing the grassy field with his toes 
before rising thirty, forty, fifty feet into the air again — 

“Harry, I’m letting the Snitch out!” Wood called. 

Harry turned and raced a Bludger toward the goal 
posts; he outstripped it easily, saw the Snitch dart 
out from behind Wood, and within ten seconds had 
caught it tightly in his hand. 

The team cheered madly. Harry let the Snitch go 
again, gave it a minute’s head start, then tore after it, 
weaving in and out of the others; he spotted it lurking 
near Katie Bell’s knee, looped her easily, and caught 
it again. 

It was the best practice ever; the team, inspired by 
the presence of the Firebolt in their midst, performed 
their best moves faultlessly, and by the time they hit 
the ground again, Wood didn’t have a single criticism 
to make, which, as George Weasley pointed out, was a 
first. 

“I can’t see what’s going to stop us tomorrow!” said 
Wood. “Not unless — Harry, you’ve sorted out your 
dementor problem, haven’t you?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, thinking of his feeble Patronus 
and wishing it were stronger. 

“The dementors won’t turn up again, Oliver. 
Dumbledore’d go ballistic,” said Fred confidently. 



Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, let’s hope not,” said Wood. “Anyway — good 
work, everyone. Let’s get back to the tower ... turn in 
early — ” 

“I’m staying out for a bit; Ron wants a go on the 
Firebolt,” Harry told Wood, and while the rest of the 
team headed off to the locker rooms, Harry strode 
over to Ron, who vaulted the barrier to the stands 
and came to meet him. Madam Hooch had fallen 
asleep in her seat. 

“Here you go,” said Harry, handing Ron the Firebolt. 

Ron, an expression of ecstasy on his face, mounted 
the broom and zoomed off into the gathering darkness 
while Harry walked around the edge of the field, 
watching him. Night had fallen before Madam Hooch 
awoke with a start, told Harry and Ron off for not 
waking her, and insisted that they go back to the 
castle. 

Harry shouldered the Firebolt and he and Ron walked 
out of the shadowy stadium, discussing the Firebolt’s 
superbly smooth action, its phenomenal acceleration, 
and its pinpoint turning. They were halfway toward 
the castle when Harry, glancing to his left, saw 
something that made his heart turn over — a pair of 
eyes, gleaming out of the darkness. 

Harry stopped dead, his heart banging against his 
ribs. 

“What’s the matter?” said Ron. 

Harry pointed. Ron pulled out his wand and 
muttered, “Lumos\” 



Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




A beam of light fell across the grass, hit the bottom of 
a tree, and illuminated its branches; there, crouching 
among the budding leaves, was Crookshanks. 

“Get out of here!” Ron roared, and he stooped down 
and seized a stone lying on the grass, but before he 
could do anything else, Crookshanks had vanished 
with one swish of his long ginger tail. 

“See?” Ron said furiously, chucking the stone down 
again. “She’s still letting him wander about wherever 
he wants — probably washing down Scabbers with a 
couple of birds now. ...” 

Harry didn’t say anything. He took a deep breath as 
relief seeped through him; he had been sure for a 
moment that those eyes had belonged to the Grim. 
They set off for the castle once more. Slightly 
ashamed of his moment of panic, Harry didn’t say 
anything to Ron — nor did he look left or right until 
they had reached the well-lit entrance hall. 

Harry went down to breakfast the next morning with 
the rest of the boys in his dormitory, all of whom 
seemed to think the Firebolt deserved a sort of guard 
of honor. As Harry entered the Great Hall, heads 
turned in the direction of the Firebolt, and there was 
a good deal of excited muttering. Harry saw, with 
enormous satisfaction, that the Slytherin team were 
all looking thunderstruck. 

“Did you see his face?” said Ron gleefully, looking 
back at Malfoy. “He can’t believe it! This is brilliant!” 

Wood, too, was basking in the reflected glory of the 
Firebolt. 

“Put it here, Harry,” he said, laying the broom in the 
middle of the table and carefully turning it so that its 

Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




name faced upward. People from the Ravenclaw and 
Hufflepuff tables were soon coming over to look. 
Cedric Diggory came over to congratulate Harry on 
having acquired such a superb replacement for his 
Nimbus, and Percy’s Ravenclaw girlfriend, Penelope 
Clearwater, asked if she could actually hold the 
Firebolt. 

“Now, now, Penny, no sabotage!” said Percy heartily 
as she examined the Firebolt closely “Penelope and I 
have got a bet on,” he told the team. “Ten Galleons on 
the outcome of the match!” 

Penelope put the Firebolt down again, thanked Harry, 
and went back to her table. 

“Harry — make sure you win,” said Percy, in an 
urgent whisper. “I haven’t got ten Galleons. Yes, I’m 
coming, Penny!” And he bustled off to join her in a 
piece of toast. 

“Sure you can manage that broom, Potter?” said a 
cold, drawling voice. 

Draco Malfoy had arrived for a closer look, Crabbe 
and Goyle right behind him. 

“Yeah, reckon so,” said Harry casually. 

“Got plenty of special features, hasn’t it?” said Malfoy, 
eyes glittering maliciously. “Shame it doesn’t come 
with a parachute — in case you get too near a 
dementor.” 

Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. 

“Pity you can’t attach an extra arm to yours, Malfoy,” 
said Harry. “Then it could catch the Snitch for you.” 



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The Gryffindor team laughed loudly. Malfoy’s pale 
eyes narrowed, and he stalked away. They watched 
him rejoin the rest of the Slytherin team, who put 
their heads together, no doubt asking Malfoy whether 
Harry’s broom really was a Firebolt. 

At a quarter to eleven, the Gryffindor team set off for 
the locker rooms. The weather couldn’t have been 
more different from their match against Hufflepuff. It 
was a clear, cool day with a very light breeze; there 
would be no visibility problems this time, and Harry, 
though nervous, was starting to feel the excitement 
only a Quidditch match could bring. They could hear 
the rest of the school moving into the stadium 
beyond. Harry took off his black school robes, 
removed his wand from his pocket, and stuck it 
inside the T-shirt he was going to wear under his 
Quidditch robes. He only hoped he wouldn’t need it. 
He wondered suddenly whether Professor Lupin was 
in the crowd, watching. 

“You know what we’ve got to do,” said Wood as they 
prepared to leave the locker rooms. “If we lose this 
match, we’re out of the running. Just — just fly like 
you did in practice yesterday, and we’ll be okay!” 

They walked out onto the field to tumultuous 
applause. The Ravenclaw team, dressed in blue, were 
already standing in the middle of the field. Their 
Seeker, Cho Chang, was the only girl on their team. 
She was shorter than Harry by about a head, and 
Harry couldn’t help noticing, nervous as he was, that 
she was extremely pretty. She smiled at Harry as the 
teams faced each other behind their captains, and he 
felt a slight lurch in the region of his stomach that he 
didn’t think had anything to do with nerves. 



Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Wood, Davies, shake hands,” Madam Hooch said 
briskly, and Wood shook hands with the Ravenclaw 
Captain. 

“Mount your brooms ... on my whistle . . . three — two 
— one — ” 

Harry kicked off into the air and the Firebolt zoomed 
higher and faster than any other broom; he soared 
around the stadium and began squinting around for 
the Snitch, listening all the while to the commentary, 
which was being provided by the Weasley twins’ 
friend Lee Jordan. 

“They’re off, and the big excitement this match is the 
Firebolt that Harry Potter is flying for Gryffindor. 
According to Which Broomstick, the Firebolt’s going to 
be the broom of choice for the national teams at this 
year’s World Championship — ” 

“Jordan, would you mind telling us what’s going on in 
the match?” interrupted Professor McGonagall’s voice. 

“Right you are, Professor — just giving a bit of 
background information — the Firebolt, incidentally, 
has a built-in auto-brake and — ” 

“Jordan!” 

“Okay, okay, Gryffindor in possession, Katie Bell of 
Gryffindor heading for goal ...” 

Harry streaked past Katie in the opposite direction, 
gazing around for a glint of gold and noticing that Cho 
Chang was tailing him closely. She was undoubtedly 
a very good flier — she kept cutting across him, 
forcing him to change direction. 



Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Show her your acceleration, Harry!” Fred yelled as he 
whooshed past in pursuit of a Bludger that was 
aiming for Alicia. 

Harry urged the Firebolt forward as they rounded the 
Ravenclaw goal posts and Cho fell behind. Just as 
Katie succeeded in scoring the first goal of the match, 
and the Gryffindor end of the field went wild, he saw 
it — the Snitch was close to the ground, flitting near 
one of the barriers. 

Harry dived; Cho saw what he was doing and tore 
after him — Harry was speeding up, excitement 
flooding him; dives were his speciality, he was ten feet 
away — 

Then a Bludger, hit by one of the Ravenclaw Beaters, 
came pelting out of nowhere; Harry veered off course, 
avoiding it by an inch, and in those few, crucial 
seconds, the Snitch had vanished. 

There was a great “Ooooooh” of disappointment from 
the Gryffindor supporters, but much applause for 
their Beater from the Ravenclaw end. George Weasley 
vented his feelings by hitting the second Bludger 
directly at the offending Beater, who was forced to roll 
right over in midair to avoid it. 

“Gryffindor leads by eighty points to zero, and look at 
that Firebolt go! Potter’s really putting it through its 
paces now, see it turn — Chang’s Comet is just no 
match for it, the Firebolt’s precision-balance is really 
noticeable in these long — ” 

“JORDAN! ARE YOU BEING PAID TO ADVERTISE 
FIREBOLTS? GET ON WITH THE COMMENTARY!” 

Ravenclaw was pulling back; they had now scored 
three goals, which put Gryffindor only fifty points 

Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




ahead — if Cho got the Snitch before him, Ravenclaw 
would win. Harry dropped lower, narrowly avoiding a 
Ravenclaw Chaser, scanning the field frantically — a 
glint of gold, a flutter of tiny wings — the Snitch was 
circling the Gryffindor goal post — 

Harry accelerated, eyes fixed on the speck of gold 
ahead — but just then, Cho appeared out of thin air, 
blocking him — 

“HARRY, THIS IS NO TIME TO BE A GENTLEMAN!” 
Wood roared as Harry swerved to avoid a collision. 
“KNOCK HER OFF HER BROOM IF YOU HAVE TO!” 

Harry turned and caught sight of Cho; she was 
grinning. The Snitch had vanished again. Harry 
turned his Firebolt upward and was soon twenty feet 
above the game. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw 
Cho following him. ... She’d decided to mark him 
rather than search for the Snitch herself. . . . All right, 
then ... if she wanted to tail him, she’d have to take 
the consequences. ... 

He dived again, and Cho, thinking he’d seen the 
Snitch, tried to follow; Harry pulled out of the dive 
very sharply; she hurtled downward; he rose fast as a 
bullet once more, and then saw it, for the third time 
— the Snitch was glittering way above the field at the 
Ravenclaw end. 

He accelerated; so, many feet below, did Cho. He was 
winning, gaining on the Snitch with every second — 
then — 

“Oh!” screamed Cho, pointing. 

Distracted, Harry looked down. 



Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Three dementors, three tall, black, hooded dementors, 
were looking up at him. 

He didn’t stop to think. Plunging a hand down the 
neck of his robes, he whipped out his wand and 
roared, “Expecto patronum).” 

Something silver-white, something enormous, erupted 
from the end of his wand. He knew it had shot 
directly at the dementors but didn’t pause to watch; 
his mind still miraculously clear, he looked ahead — 
he was nearly there. He stretched out the hand still 
grasping his wand and just managed to close his 
fingers over the small, struggling Snitch. 

Madam Hooch’s whistle sounded. Harry turned 
around in midair and saw six scarlet blurs bearing 
down on him; next moment, the whole team was 
hugging him so hard he was nearly pulled off his 
broom. Down below he could hear the roars of the 
Gryffindors in the crowd. 

“That’s my boy!” Wood kept yelling. Alicia, Angelina, 
and Katie had all kissed Harry; Fred had him in a grip 
so tight Harry felt as though his head would come off. 
In complete disarray, the team managed to make its 
way back to the ground. Harry got off his broom and 
looked up to see a gaggle of Gryffindor supporters 
sprinting onto the field, Ron in the lead. Before he 
knew it, he had been engulfed by the cheering crowd. 

“Yes!” Ron yelled, yanking Harry’s arm into the air. 
“Yes! Yes!” 

“Well done, Harry!” said Percy, looking delighted. “Ten 
Galleons to me! Must find Penelope, excuse me — ” 

“Good for you, Harry!” roared Seamus Finnigan. 



Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ruddy brilliant!” boomed Hagrid over the heads of 
the milling Gryffindors. 

“That was quite some Patronus,” said a voice in 
Harry’s ear. 

Harry turned around to see Professor Lupin, who 
looked both shaken and pleased. 

“The dementors didn’t affect me at all!” Harry said 
excitedly. “I didn’t feel a thing!” 

“That would be because they — er — weren’t 
dementors,” said Professor Lupin. “Come and see — ” 

He led Harry out of the crowd until they were able to 
see the edge of the field. 

“You gave Mr. Malfoy quite a fright,” said Lupin. 

Harry stared. Lying in a crumpled heap on the ground 
were Malfoy, Crabbe, Goyle, and Marcus Flint, the 
Slytherin team Captain, all struggling to remove 
themselves from long, black, hooded robes. It looked 
as though Malfoy had been standing on Goyle ’s 
shoulders. Standing over them, with an expression of 
the utmost fury on her face, was Professor 
McGonagall. 

“An unworthy trick!” she was shouting. “A low and 
cowardly attempt to sabotage the Gryffindor Seeker! 
Detention for all of you, and fifty points from 
Slytherin! I shall be speaking to Professor 
Dumbledore about this, make no mistake! Ah, here 
he comes now!” 

If anything could have set the seal on Gryffindor’s 
victory, it was this. Ron, who had fought his way 
through to Harry’s side, doubled up with laughter as 

Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




they watched Malfoy fighting to extricate himself from 
the robe, Goyle’s head still stuck inside it. 



“Come on, Harry!” said George, fighting his way over. 
“Party! Gryffindor common room, now!” 

“Right,” said Harry, and feeling happier than he had 
in ages, he and the rest of the team led the way, still 
in their scarlet robes, out of the stadium and back up 
to the castle. 



It felt as though they had already won the Quidditch 
Cup; the party went on all day and well into the night. 
Fred and George Weasley disappeared for a couple of 
hours and returned with armfuls of bottles of 
butterbeer, pumpkin fizz, and several bags full of 
Honeydukes sweets. 

“How did you do that?” squealed Angelina Johnson as 
George started throwing Peppermint Toads into the 
crowd. 

“With a little help from Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and 
Prongs,” Fred muttered in Harry’s ear. 

Only one person wasn’t joining in the festivities. 
Hermione, incredibly, was sitting in a corner, 
attempting to read an enormous book entitled Home 
Life and Social Habits of British Muggles. Harry broke 
away from the table where Fred and George had 
started juggling butterbeer bottles and went over to 
her. 

“Did you even come to the match?” he asked her. 

“Of course I did,” said Hermione in a strangely high- 
pitched voice, not looking up. “And I’m very glad we 

Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




won, and I think you did really well, but I need to 
read this by Monday.” 

“Come on, Hermione, come and have some food,” 
Harry said, looking over at Ron and wondering 
whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the 
hatchet. 

“I can’t, Harry. I’ve still got four hundred and twenty- 
two pages to read!” said Hermione, now sounding 
slightly hysterical. “Anyway ...” She glanced over at 
Ron too. “He doesn’t want me to join in.” 
