us will get some wood for a fire?” 

“But we’ve got an oven,” said Ron. “Why can’t we just 



“Ron, anti-Muggle security!” said Mr. Weasley, his 
face shining with anticipation. “When real Muggles 
camp, they cook on fires outdoors. I’ve seen them at 



it! 






After a quick tour of the girls’ tent, which was slightly 
smaller than the boys’, though without the smell of 
cats, Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off across the 
campsite with the kettle and saucepans. 

Now, with the sun newly risen and the mist lifting, 
they could see the city of tents that stretched in every 
direction. They made their way slowly through the 
rows, staring eagerly around. It was only just 
dawning on Harry how many witches and wizards 



Page | 89 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




there must be in the world; he had never really 
thought much about those in other countries. 

Their fellow campers were starting to wake up. First 
to stir were the families with small children; Harry 
had never seen witches and wizards this young 
before. A tiny boy no older than two was crouched 
outside a large pyramid-shaped tent, holding a wand 
and poking happily at a slug in the grass, which was 
swelling slowly to the size of a salami. As they drew 
level with him, his mother came hurrying out of the 
tent. 

“ How ma.ny times, Kevin? You don’t — touch — 
Daddy’s — wand — yecchh!” 

She had trodden on the giant slug, which burst. Her 
scolding carried after them on the still air, mingling 
with the little boy’s yells — “You bust slug! You bust 
slug!” 

A short way farther on, they saw two little witches, 
barely older than Kevin, who were riding toy 
broomsticks that rose only high enough for the girls’ 
toes to skim the dewy grass. A Ministry wizard had 
already spotted them; as he hurried past Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione he muttered distractedly, “In broad 
daylight! Parents having a lie-in, I suppose — ” 

Here and there adult wizards and witches were 
emerging from their tents and starting to cook 
breakfast. Some, with furtive looks around them, 
conjured fires with their wands; others were striking 
matches with dubious looks on their faces, as though 
sure this couldn’t work. Three African wizards sat in 
serious conversation, all of them wearing long white 
robes and roasting what looked like a rabbit on a 
bright purple fire, while a group of middle-aged 
American witches sat gossiping happily beneath a 
Page | 90 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




spangled banner stretched between their tents that 
read: THE SALEM WITCHES’ INSTITUTE. Harry 
caught snatches of conversation in strange languages 
from the inside of tents they passed, and though he 
couldn’t understand a word, the tone of every single 
voice was excited. 

“Er — is it my eyes, or has everything gone green?” 
said Ron. 

It wasn’t just Ron’s eyes. They had walked into a 
patch of tents that were all covered with a thick 
growth of shamrocks, so that it looked as though 
small, oddly shaped hillocks had sprouted out of the 
earth. Grinning faces could be seen under those that 
had their flaps open. Then, from behind them, they 
heard their names. 

“Harry! Ron! Hermione!” 

It was Seamus Finnigan, their fellow Gryffindor fourth 
year. He was sitting in front of his own shamrock- 
covered tent, with a sandy-haired woman who had to 
be his mother, and his best friend, Dean Thomas, 
also of Gryffindor. 

“Like the decorations?” said Seamus, grinning. “The 
Ministry’s not too happy.” 

“Ah, why shouldn’t we show our colors?” said Mrs. 
Finnigan. “You should see what the Bulgarians have 
got dangling all over their tents. You’ll be supporting 
Ireland, of course?” she added, eyeing Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione beadily. When they had assured her 
that they were indeed supporting Ireland, they set off 
again, though, as Ron said, “Like we’d say anything 
else surrounded by that lot.” 



Page | 91 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I wonder what the Bulgarians have got dangling all 
over their tents?” said Hermione. 

“Let’s go and have a look,” said Harry, pointing to a 
large patch of tents upheld, where the Bulgarian flag 
— white, green, and red — was fluttering in the 
breeze. 

The tents here had not been bedecked with plant life, 
but each and every one of them had the same poster 
attached to it, a poster of a very surly face with heavy 
black eyebrows. The picture was, of course, moving, 
but all it did was blink and scowl. 

“Krum,” said Ron quietly. 

“What?” said Hermione. 

“Krum!” said Ron. “Viktor Krum, the Bulgarian 
Seeker!” 

“He looks really grumpy,” said Hermione, looking 
around at the many Krums blinking and scowling at 
them. 

“ ‘Really grumpy’?” Ron raised his eyes to the 
heavens. “Who cares what he looks like? He’s 
unbelievable. He’s really young too. Only just eighteen 
or something. He’s a genius, you wait until tonight, 
you’ll see.” 

There was already a small queue for the tap in the 
corner of the field. Harry, Ron, and Hermione joined 
it, right behind a pair of men who were having a 
heated argument. One of them was a very old wizard 
who was wearing a long flowery nightgown. The other 
was clearly a Ministry wizard; he was holding out a 
pair of pinstriped trousers and almost crying with 
exasperation. 

Page | 92 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Just put them on, Archie, there’s a good chap. You 
can’t walk around like that, the Muggle at the gate’s 
already getting suspicious — ” 

“I bought this in a Muggle shop,” said the old wizard 
stubbornly. “Muggles wear them.” 

“Muggle women wear them, Archie, not the men, they 
wear these,” said the Ministry wizard, and he 
brandished the pinstriped trousers. 

“I’m not putting them on,” said old Archie in 
indignation. “I like a healthy breeze ’round my 
privates, thanks.” 

Hermione was overcome with such a strong fit of the 
giggles at this point that she had to duck out of the 
queue and only returned when Archie had collected 
his water and moved away. 

Walking more slowly now, because of the weight of 
the water, they made their way back through the 
campsite. Here and there, they saw more familiar 
faces: other Hogwarts students with their families. 
Oliver Wood, the old captain of Harry’s House 
Quidditch team, who had just left Hogwarts, dragged 
Harry over to his parents’ tent to introduce him, and 
told him excitedly that he had just been signed to the 
Puddlemere United reserve team. Next they were 
hailed by Ernie Macmillan, a Hufflepuff fourth year, 
and a little farther on they saw Cho Chang, a very 
pretty girl who played Seeker on the Ravenclaw team. 
She waved and smiled at Harry, who slopped quite a 
lot of water down his front as he waved back. More to 
stop Ron from smirking than anything, Harry 
hurriedly pointed out a large group of teenagers 
whom he had never seen before. 



Page | 93 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Who d’you reckon they are?” he said. “They don’t go 
to Hogwarts, do they?” 



“ ’Spect they go to some foreign school,” said Ron. “I 
know there are others. Never met anyone who went to 
one, though. Bill had a penfriend at a school in Brazil 
. . . this was years and years ago . . . and he wanted to 
go on an exchange trip but Mum and Dad couldn’t 
afford it. His penfriend got all offended when he said 
he wasn’t going and sent him a cursed hat. It made 
his ears shrivel up.” 

Harry laughed but didn’t voice the amazement he felt 
at hearing about other wizarding schools. He 
supposed, now that he saw representatives of so 
many nationalities in the campsite, that he had been 
stupid never to realize that Hogwarts couldn’t be the 
only one. He glanced at Hermione, who looked utterly 
unsurprised by the information. No doubt she had 
run across the news about other wizarding schools in 
some book or other. 

“You’ve been ages,” said George when they finally got 
back to the Weasleys’ tents. 

“Met a few people,” said Ron, setting the water down. 
“You not got that fire started yet?” 

“Dad’s having fun with the matches,” said Fred. 

Mr. Weasley was having no success at all in lighting 
the fire, but it wasn’t for lack of trying. Splintered 
matches littered the ground around him, but he 
looked as though he was having the time of his life. 

“Oops!” he said as he managed to light a match and 
promptly dropped it in surprise. 



Page | 94 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Come here, Mr. Weasley,” said Hermione kindly, 
taking the box from him, and showing him how to do 
it properly. 

At last they got the fire lit, though it was at least 
another hour before it was hot enough to cook 
anything. There was plenty to watch while they 
waited, however. Their tent seemed to be pitched right 
alongside a kind of thoroughfare to the field, and 
Ministry members kept hurrying up and down it, 
greeting Mr. Weasley cordially as they passed. Mr. 
Weasley kept up a running commentary, mainly for 
Harry’s and Hermione’s benefit; his own children 
knew too much about the Ministry to be greatly 
interested. 

“That was Cuthbert Mockridge, Head of the Goblin 
Liaison Office. ... Here comes Gilbert Wimple; he’s 
with the Committee on Experimental Charms; he’s 
had those horns for awhile now. ... Hello, Arnie ... 
Arnold Peasegood, he’s an Obliviator — member of the 
Accidental Magic Reversal Squad, you know. ... and 
that’s Bode and Croaker ... they’re Unspeakables. ...” 

“They’re what?” 

“From the Department of Mysteries, top secret, no 
idea what they get up to. ...” 

At last, the fire was ready, and they had just started 
cooking eggs and sausages when Bill, Charlie, and 
Percy came strolling out of the woods toward them. 

“Just Apparated, Dad,” said Percy loudly. “Ah, 
excellent, lunch!” 

They were halfway through their plates of eggs and 
sausages when Mr. Weasley jumped to his feet, 
waving and grinning at a man who was striding 

Page | 95 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




toward them. “Aha!” he said. “The man of the 
moment! Ludo!” 

Ludo Bagman was easily the most noticeable person 
Harry had seen so far, even including old Archie in 
his flowered nightdress. He was wearing long 
Quidditch robes in thick horizontal stripes of bright 
yellow and black. An enormous picture of a wasp was 
splashed across his chest. He had the look of a 
powerfully built man gone slightly to seed; the robes 
were stretched tightly across a large belly he surely 
had not had in the days when he had played 
Quidditch for England. His nose was squashed 
(probably broken by a stray Bludger, Harry thought), 
but his round blue eyes, short blond hair, and rosy 
complexion made him look like a very overgrown 
schoolboy. 

“Ahoy there!” Bagman called happily. He was walking 
as though he had springs attached to the balls of his 
feet and was plainly in a state of wild excitement. 

“Arthur, old man,” he puffed as he reached the 
campfire, “what a day, eh? What a day! Could we 
have asked for more perfect weather? A cloudless 
night coming . . . and hardly a hiccough in the 
arrangements. ... Not much for me to do!” 

Behind him, a group of haggard-looking Ministry 
wizards rushed past, pointing at the distant evidence 
of some sort of a magical fire that was sending violet 
sparks twenty feet into the air. 

Percy hurried forward with his hand outstretched. 
Apparently his disapproval of the way Ludo Bagman 
ran his department did not prevent him from wanting 
to make a good impression. 



Page | 96 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah — yes,” said Mr. Weasley, grinning, “this is my 
son Percy. He’s just started at the Ministry — and 
this is Fred — no, George, sorry — that’s Fred — Bill, 
Charlie, Ron — my daughter, Ginny — and Ron’s 
friends, Hermione Granger and Harry Potter.” 

Bagman did the smallest of double takes when he 
heard Harry’s name, and his eyes performed the 
familiar flick upward to the scar on Harry’s forehead. 

“Everyone,” Mr. Weasley continued, “this is Ludo 
Bagman, you know who he is, it’s thanks to him we’ve 
got such good tickets — ” 

Bagman beamed and waved his hand as if to say it 
had been nothing. 

“Fancy a flutter on the match, Arthur?” he said 
eagerly, jingling what seemed to be a large amount of 
gold in the pockets of his yellow-and-black robes. “I’ve 
already got Roddy Pontner betting me Bulgaria will 
score first — I offered him nice odds, considering 
Ireland’s front three are the strongest I’ve seen in 
years — and little Agatha Timms has put up half 
shares in her eel farm on a week-long match.” 

“Oh ... go on then,” said Mr. Weasley. “Let’s see ... a 
Galleon on Ireland to win?” 

“A Galleon?” Ludo Bagman looked slightly 
disappointed, but recovered himself. “Very well, very 
well . . . any other takers?” 

“They’re a bit young to be gambling,” said Mr. 

Weasley. “Molly wouldn’t like — ” 

“Well bet thirty-seven Galleons, fifteen Sickles, three 
Knuts,” said Fred as he and George quickly pooled all 



Page | 97 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




their money, “that Ireland wins — but Viktor Krum 
gets the Snitch. Oh and we’ll throw in a fake wand.” 



“You don’t want to go showing Mr. Bagman rubbish 
like that — ” Percy hissed, but Bagman didn’t seem to 
think the wand was rubbish at all; on the contrary, 
his boyish face shone with excitement as he took it 
from Fred, and when the wand gave a loud squawk 
and turned into a rubber chicken, Bagman roared 
with laughter. 

“Excellent! I haven’t seen one that convincing in 
years! I’d pay five Galleons for that!” 

Percy froze in an attitude of stunned disapproval. 

“Boys,” said Mr. Weasley under his breath, “I don’t 
want you betting. ... That’s all your savings. ... Your 
mother — ” 

“Don’t be a spoilsport, Arthur!” boomed Ludo 
Bagman, rattling his pockets excitedly. “They’re old 
enough to know what they want! You reckon Ireland 
will win but Krum ’ll get the Snitch? Not a chance, 
boys, not a chance. ... I’ll give you excellent odds on 
that one. ... We’ll add five Galleons for the funny 
wand, then, shall we. ...” 

Mr. Weasley looked on helplessly as Ludo Bagman 
whipped out a notebook and quill and began jotting 
down the twins’ names. 

“Cheers,” said George, taking the slip of parchment 
Bagman handed him and tucking it away carefully. 
Bagman turned most cheerfully back to Mr. Weasley. 

“Couldn’t do me a brew, I suppose? I’m keeping an 
eye out for Barty Crouch. My Bulgarian opposite 
number’s making difficulties, and I can’t understand 

Page | 98 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




a word he’s saying. Barty’ll be able to sort it out. He 
speaks about a hundred and fifty languages.” 

“Mr. Crouch?” said Percy, suddenly abandoning his 
look of poker-stiff disapproval and positively writhing 
with excitement. “He speaks over two hundred! 
Mermish and Gobbledegook and Troll ...” 

“Anyone can speak Troll,” said Fred dismissively. “All 
you have to do is point and grunt.” 

Percy threw Fred an extremely nasty look and stoked 
the fire vigorously to bring the kettle back to the boil. 

“Any news of Bertha Jorkins yet, Ludo?” Mr. Weasley 
asked as Bagman settled himself down on the grass 
beside them all. 

“Not a dicky bird,” said Bagman comfortably. “But 
she’ll turn up. Poor old Bertha ... memory like a leaky 
cauldron and no sense of direction. Lost, you take my 
word for it. She’ll wander back into the office 
sometime in October, thinking it’s still July.” 

“You don’t think it might be time to send someone to 
look for her?” Mr. Weasley suggested tentatively as 
Percy handed Bagman his tea. 

“Barty Crouch keeps saying that,” said Bagman, his 
round eyes widening innocently, “but we really can’t 
spare anyone at the moment. Oh — talk of the devil! 
Barty!” 

A wizard had just Apparated at their fireside, and he 
could not have made more of a contrast with Ludo 
Bagman, sprawled on the grass in his old Wasp 
robes. Barty Crouch was a stiff, upright, elderly man, 
dressed in an impeccably crisp suit and tie. The 
parting in his short gray hair was almost unnaturally 
Page | 99 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




straight, and his narrow toothbrush mustache looked 
as though he trimmed it using a slide rule. His shoes 
were very highly polished. Harry could see at once 
why Percy idolized him. Percy was a great believer in 
rigidly following rules, and Mr. Crouch had complied 
with the rule about Muggle dressing so thoroughly 
that he could have passed for a bank manager; Harry 
doubted even Uncle Vernon would have spotted him 
for what he really was. 

“Pull up a bit of grass, Barty,” said Ludo brightly, 
patting the ground beside him. 

“No thank you, Ludo,” said Crouch, and there was a 
bite of impatience in his voice. “I’ve been looking for 
you everywhere. The Bulgarians are insisting we add 
another twelve seats to the Top Box.” 

“Oh is that what they’re after?” said Bagman. “I 
thought the chap was asking to borrow a pair of 
tweezers. Bit of a strong accent.” 

“Mr. Crouch!” said Percy breathlessly, sunk into a 
kind of half-bow that made him look like a 
hunchback. “Would you like a cup of tea?” 

“Oh,” said Mr. Crouch, looking over at Percy in mild 
surprise. “Yes — thank you, Weatherby.” 

Fred and George choked into their own cups. Percy, 
very pink around the ears, busied himself with the 
kettle. 

“Oh and I’ve been wanting a word with you too, 
Arthur,” said Mr. Crouch, his sharp eyes falling upon 
Mr. Weasley. “Ali Bashir’s on the warpath. He wants a 
word with you about your embargo on flying carpets.” 

Mr. Weasley heaved a deep sigh. 

Page | 100 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I sent him an owl about that just last week. If I’ve 
told him once I’ve told him a hundred times: Carpets 
are defined as a Muggle Artifact by the Registry of 
Proscribed Charmable Objects, but will he listen?” 

“I doubt it,” said Mr. Crouch, accepting a cup from 
Percy. “He’s desperate to export here.” 

“Well, they’ll never replace brooms in Britain, will 
they?” said Bagman. 

“Ali thinks there’s a niche in the market for a family 
vehicle,” said Mr. Crouch. “I remember my 
grandfather had an Axminster that could seat twelve 
— but that was before carpets were banned, of 
course.” 

He spoke as though he wanted to leave nobody in any 
doubt that all his ancestors had abided strictly by the 
law. 

“So, been keeping busy, Barty?” said Bagman 
breezily. 

“Fairly,” said Mr. Crouch dryly. “Organizing Portkeys 
across five continents is no mean feat, Ludo.” 

“I expect you’ll both be glad when this is over?” said 
Mr. Weasley. 

Ludo Bagman looked shocked. 

“Glad! Don’t know when I’ve had more fun. ... Still, 
it’s not as though we haven’t got anything to look 
forward to, eh, Barty? Eh? Plenty left to organize, eh?” 

Mr. Crouch raised his eyebrows at Bagman. 



Page | 101 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“We agreed not to make the announcement until all 
the details — ” 

“Oh details!” said Bagman, waving the word away like 
a cloud of midges. “They’ve signed, haven’t they? 
They’ve agreed, haven’t they? I bet you anything these 
kids’ll know soon enough anyway. I mean, it’s 
happening at Hogwarts — ” 

“Ludo, we need to meet the Bulgarians, you know,” 
said Mr. Crouch sharply, cutting Bagman’s remarks 
short. “Thank you for the tea, Weatherby.” 

He pushed his undrunk tea back at Percy and waited 
for Ludo to rise; Bagman struggled to his feet, 
swigging down the last of his tea, the gold in his 
pockets chinking merrily. 

“See you all later!” he said. “You’ll be up in the Top 
Box with me — I’m commentating!” He waved, Barty 
Crouch nodded curtly, and both of them 
Disapparated. 

“What’s happening at Hogwarts, Dad?” said Fred at 
once. “What were they talking about?” 

“You’ll find out soon enough,” said Mr.Weasley, 
smiling. 

“It’s classified information, until such time as the 
Ministry decides to release it,” said Percy stiffly. “Mr. 
Crouch was quite right not to disclose it.” 

“Oh shut up, Weatherby,” said Fred. 

A sense of excitement rose like a palpable cloud over 
the campsite as the afternoon wore on. By dusk, the 
still summer air itself seemed to be quivering with 
anticipation, and as darkness spread like a curtain 

Page | 102 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




over the thousands of waiting wizards, the last 
vestiges of pretence disappeared: the Ministry seemed 
to have bowed to the inevitable and stopped fighting 
the signs of blatant magic now breaking out 
everywhere. 

Salesmen were Apparating every few feet, carrying 
trays and pushing carts full of extraordinary 
merchandise. There were luminous rosettes — green 
for Ireland, red for Bulgaria — which were squealing 
the names of the players, pointed green hats 
bedecked with dancing shamrocks, Bulgarian scarves 
adorned with lions that really roared, flags from both 
countries that played their national anthems as they 
were waved; there were tiny models of Firebolts that 
really flew, and collectible figures of famous players, 
which strolled across the palm of your hand, preening 
themselves. 

“Been saving my pocket money all summer for this,” 
Ron told Harry as they and Hermione strolled through 
the salesmen, buying souvenirs. Though Ron 
purchased a dancing shamrock hat and a large green 
rosette, he also bought a small figure of Viktor Krum, 
the Bulgarian Seeker. The miniature Krum walked 
backward and forward over Ron’s hand, scowling up 
at the green rosette above him. 

“Wow, look at these!” said Harry, hurrying over to a 
cart piled high with what looked like brass 
binoculars, except that they were covered with all 
sorts of weird knobs and dials. 

“Omnioculars,” said the saleswizard eagerly. “You can 
replay action . . . slow everything down . . . and they 
flash up a play-by-play breakdown if you need it. 
Bargain — ten Galleons each.” 



Page | 103 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Wish I hadn’t bought this now,” said Ron, gesturing 
at his dancing shamrock hat and gazing longingly at 
the Omnioculars. 

“Three pairs,” said Harry firmly to the wizard. 

“No — don’t bother,” said Ron, going red. He was 
always touchy about the fact that Harry, who had 
inherited a small fortune from his parents, had much 
more money than he did. 

“You won’t be getting anything for Christmas,” Harry 
told him, thrusting Omnioculars into his and 
Hermione’s hands. “For about ten years, mind.” 

“Fair enough,” said Ron, grinning. 

“Oooh, thanks, Harry,” said Hermione. “And I’ll get us 
some programs, look — ” 

Their money bags considerably lighter, they went 
back to the tents. Bill, Charlie, and Ginny were all 
sporting green rosettes too, and Mr. Weasley was 
carrying an Irish flag. Fred and George had no 
souvenirs as they had given Bagman all their gold. 

And then a deep, booming gong sounded somewhere 
beyond the woods, and at once, green and red 
lanterns blazed into life in the trees, lighting a path to 
the field. 

“It’s time!” said Mr. Weasley, looking as excited as any 
of them. “Come on, let’s go!” 



Page | 104 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 





-4 



THE QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP 

Clutching their purchases, Mr. Weasley in the lead, 
they all hurried into the wood, following the lantern- 
lit trail. They could hear the sounds of thousands of 
people moving around them, shouts and laughter, 
snatches of singing. The atmosphere of feverish 
excitement was highly infectious; Harry couldn’t stop 
grinning. They walked through the wood for twenty 
minutes, talking and joking loudly, until at last they 
emerged on the other side and found themselves in 
the shadow of a gigantic stadium. Though Harry 
could see only a fraction of the immense gold walls 
surrounding the field, he could tell that ten 
cathedrals would fit comfortably inside it. 

“Seats a hundred thousand,” said Mr. Weasley, 
spotting the awestruck look on Harry’s face. “Ministry 
task force of five hundred have been working on it all 
year. Muggle Repelling Charms on every inch of it. 
Every time Muggles have got anywhere near here all 
year, they’ve suddenly remembered urgent 
appointments and had to dash away again . . . bless 
them,” he added fondly, leading the way toward the 
Page | 105 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




nearest entrance, which was already surrounded by a 
swarm of shouting witches and wizards. 

“Prime seats!” said the Ministry witch at the entrance 
when she checked their tickets. “Top Box! Straight 
upstairs, Arthur, and as high as you can go.” 

The stairs into the stadium were carpeted in rich 
purple. They clambered upward with the rest of the 
crowd, which slowly filtered away through doors into 
the stands to their left and right. Mr. Weasley’s party 
kept climbing, and at last they reached the top of the 
staircase and found themselves in a small box, set at 
the highest point of the stadium and situated exactly 
halfway between the golden goal posts. About twenty 
purple-and-gilt chairs stood in two rows here, and 
Harry, filing into the front seats with the Weasleys, 
looked down upon a scene the likes of which he could 
never have imagined. 

A hundred thousand witches and wizards were taking 
their places in the seats, which rose in levels around 
the long oval field. Everything was suffused with a 
mysterious golden light, which seemed to come from 
the stadium itself. The field looked smooth as velvet 
from their lofty position. At either end of the field 
stood three goal hoops, fifty feet high; right opposite 
them, almost at Harry’s eye level, was a gigantic 
blackboard. Gold writing kept dashing across it as 
though an invisible giant’s hand were scrawling upon 
the blackboard and then wiping it off again; watching 
it, Harry saw that it was flashing advertisements 
across the field. 

The Bluebottle: A Broom for All the Family — safe, 
reliable, and with Built-in Anti-Burglar Buzzer ... Mrs. 
Skower’s All-Purpose Magical Mess Remover: No Pain, 
No Stain! ... Gladrags Wizardwear — London, Paris, 
Hogsmeade ... 

Page | 106 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry tore his eyes away from the sign and looked 
over his shoulder to see who else was sharing the box 
with them. So far it was empty, except for a tiny 
creature sitting in the second from last seat at the 
end of the row behind them. The creature, whose legs 
were so short they stuck out in front of it on the 
chair, was wearing a tea towel draped like a toga, and 
it had its face hidden in its hands. Yet those long, 
batlike ears were oddly familiar. . . . 

“ Dobby ?” said Harry incredulously. 

The tiny creature looked up and stretched its fingers, 
revealing enormous brown eyes and a nose the exact 
size and shape of a large tomato. It wasn’t Dobby — it 
was, however, unmistakably a house-elf, as Harry’s 
friend Dobby had been. Harry had set Dobby free 
from his old owners, the Malfoy family. 

“Did sir just call me Dobby?” squeaked the elf 
curiously from between its fingers. Its voice was 
higher even than Dobby’s had been, a teeny, 
quivering squeak of a voice, and Harry suspected — 
though it was very hard to tell with a house-elf — that 
this one might just be female. Ron and Hermione 
spun around in their seats to look. Though they had 
heard a lot about Dobby from Harry, they had never 
actually met him. Even Mr. Weasley looked around in 
interest. 

“Sorry,” Harry told the elf, “I just thought you were 
someone I knew.” 

“But I knows Dobby too, sir!” squeaked the elf. She 
was shielding her face, as though blinded by light, 
though the Top Box was not brightly lit. “My name is 
Winky, sir — and you, sir — ” Her dark brown eyes 
widened to the size of side plates as they rested upon 
Harry’s scar. “You is surely Harry Potter!” 

Page | 107 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, I am,” said Harry. 



“But Dobby talks of you all the time, sir!” she said, 
lowering her hands very slightly and looking 
awestruck. 

“How is he?” said Harry. “How’s freedom suiting 
him?” 

“Ah, sir,” said Winky, shaking her head, “ah sir, 
meaning no disrespect, sir, but I is not sure you did 
Dobby a favor, sir, when you is setting him free.” 

“Why?” said Harry, taken aback. “What’s wrong with 
him?” 

“Freedom is going to Dobby’s head, sir,” said Winky 
sadly. “Ideas above his station, sir. Can’t get another 
position, sir.” 

“Why not?” said Harry. 

Winky lowered her voice by a half-octave and 
whispered, “He is wanting paying for his work, sir.” 

“Paying?” said Harry blankly. “Well — why shouldn’t 
he be paid?” 

Winky looked quite horrified at the idea and closed 
her fingers slightly so that her face was half-hidden 
again. 

“House-elves is not paid, sir!” she said in a muffled 
squeak. “No, no, no. I says to Dobby, I says, go find 
yourself a nice family and settle down, Dobby. He is 
getting up to all sorts of high jinks, sir, what is 
unbecoming to a house-elf. You goes racketing 
around like this, Dobby, I says, and next thing I hear 
you’s up in front of the Department for the Regulation 
Page | 108 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




and Control of Magical Creatures, like some common 
goblin.” 

“Well, it’s about time he had a bit of fun,” said Harry. 

“House-elves is not supposed to have fun, Harry 
Potter,” said Winky firmly, from behind her hands. 
“House-elves does what they is told. I is not liking 
heights at all, Harry Potter” — she glanced toward the 
edge of the box and gulped — “but my master sends 
me to the Top Box and I comes, sir.” 

“Why’s he sent you up here, if he knows you don’t like 
heights?” said Harry, frowning. 

“Master — master wants me to save him a seat, Harry 
Potter. He is very busy,” said Winky, tilting her head 
toward the empty space beside her. “Winky is wishing 
she is back in master’s tent, Harry Potter, but Winky 
does what she is told. Winky is a good house-elf.” 

She gave the edge of the box another frightened look 
and hid her eyes completely again. Harry turned back 
to the others. 

“So that’s a house-elf?” Ron muttered. “Weird things, 
aren’t they?” 

“Dobby was weirder,” said Harry fervently. 

Ron pulled out his Omnioculars and started testing 
them, staring down into the crowd on the other side 
of the stadium. 

“Wild!” he said, twiddling the replay knob on the side. 
“I can make that old bloke down there pick his nose 
again ... and again ... and again ...” 



Page | 109 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione, meanwhile, was skimming eagerly through 
her velvet-covered, tasseled program. 



“ ‘A display from the team mascots will precede the 
match,’ ” she read aloud. 

“Oh that’s always worth watching,” said Mr. Weasley. 
“National teams bring creatures from their native 
land, you know, to put on a bit of a show.” 

The box filled gradually around them over the next 
half hour. Mr. Weasley kept shaking hands with 
people who were obviously very important wizards. 
Percy jumped to his feet so often that he looked as 
though he were trying to sit on a hedgehog. When 
Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic himself, 
arrived, Percy bowed so low that his glasses fell off 
and shattered. Highly embarrassed, he repaired them 
with his wand and thereafter remained in his seat, 
throwing jealous looks at Harry, whom Cornelius 
Fudge had greeted like an old friend. They had met 
before, and Fudge shook Harry’s hand in a fatherly 
fashion, asked how he was, and introduced him to 
the wizards on either side of him. 

“Harry Potter, you know,” he told the Bulgarian 
minister loudly, who was wearing splendid robes of 
black velvet trimmed with gold and didn’t seem to 
understand a word of English. “Harry Potter ... oh 
come on now, you know who he is . . . the boy who 
survived You-Know-Who ... you do know who he is — ” 
