“You mean Umbridge?” said Harry. “She won’t, she’s 
got her whole Inquisitorial Squad sitting with her, 
didn’t you see? She must be expecting trouble at the 
match.” 

“Yeah, well, a bit o’ trouble wouldn’ hurt,” said 
Hagrid, pausing to peer around the edge of the stands 
to make sure the stretch of lawn between there and 
his cabin was deserted. “Give us more time ...” 

“What is it, Hagrid?” said Hermione, looking up at 
him with a concerned expression on her face as they 
hurried across the lawn toward the edge of the forest. 

“Yeh — yeh’ll see in a mo’,” said Hagrid, looking over 
his shoulder as a great roar rose from the stands 
behind them. “Hey — did someone jus’ score?” 

“It’ll be Ravenclaw,” said Harry heavily. 



Page | 875Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Good ... good ...” said Hagrid distractedly. “Tha’s 
good...” 

They had to jog to keep up with him as he strode 
across the lawn, looking around with every other step. 
When they reached his cabin, Hermione turned 
automatically left toward the front door; Hagrid, 
however, walked straight past it into the shade of the 
trees on the outermost edge of the forest, where he 
picked up a crossbow that was leaning against a tree. 
When he realized they were no longer with him, he 
turned. 

“We’re goin’ in here,” he said, jerking his shaggy head 
behind him. 

“Into the forest?” said Hermione, perplexed. 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid. “C’mon now, quick, before we’re 
spotted!” 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then 
ducked into the cover of the trees behind Hagrid, who 
was already striding away from them into the green 
gloom, his crossbow over his arm. Harry and 
Hermione ran to catch up with him. 

“Hagrid, why are you armed?” said Harry. 

“Jus’ a precaution,” said Hagrid, shrugging his 
massive shoulders. 

“You didn’t bring your crossbow the day you showed 
us the thestrals,” said Hermione timidly. 

“Nah, well, we weren’ goin’ in so far then,” said 
Hagrid. “An’ anyway, tha’ was before Firenze left the 
forest, wasn’ it?” 



Page | 876Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Why does Firenze leaving make a difference?” asked 
Hermione curiously. 



“ ’Cause the other centaurs are good an’ riled at me, 
tha’s why,” said Hagrid quietly, glancing around. 
“They used ter be — well, yeh couldn’ call ’em friendly 
— but we got on all righ’. Kept ’emselves to ’emselves, 
bu’ always turned up if I wanted a word. Not anymore 



He sighed deeply. 

“Firenze said that they’re angry because he went to 
work for Dumbledore?” Harry asked, tripping on a 
protruding root because he was busy watching 
Hagrid ’s profile. 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid heavily. “Well, angry doesn’ cover 
it. Ruddy livid. If I hadn’ stepped in, I reckon they’d ’ve 
kicked Firenze ter death — ” 

“They attacked him?” said Hermione, sounding 
shocked. 

“Yep,” said Hagrid gruffly, forcing his way through 
several low-hanging branches. “He had half the herd 
onto him — ” 

“And you stopped it?” said Harry, amazed and 
impressed. “By yourself?” 

“ ’Course I did, couldn’t stand by an’ watch ’em kill 
him, could I?” said Hagrid. “Lucky I was passin’, 
really ... an’ I’d’ve thought Firenze mighta 
remembered tha’ before he started sendin’ me stupid 
warnin’s!” he added hotly and unexpectedly. 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other, startled, 
but Hagrid, scowling, did not elaborate. 

Page | 877Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Anyway,” he said, breathing a little more heavily 
than usual, “since then the other centaurs Ve bin livid 
with me an’ the trouble is, they’ve got a lot of 
influence in the forest... Cleverest creatures in here 



“Is that why we’re here, Hagrid?” asked Hermione. 
“The centaurs?” 

“Ah no,” said Hagrid, shaking his head dismissively, 
“no, it’s not them... Well, o’ course, they could 
complicate the problem, yeah... But yeh’ll see what I 
mean in a bit...” 

On this incomprehensible note he fell silent and 
forged a little ahead, taking one stride for every three 
of theirs, so that they had great trouble keeping up 
with him. 

The path was becoming increasingly overgrown and 
the trees grew so closely together as they walked 
farther and farther into the forest that it was as dark 
as dusk. They were soon a long way past the clearing 
where Hagrid had shown them the thestrals, but 
Harry felt no sense of unease until Hagrid stepped 
unexpectedly off the path and began wending his way 
in and out of trees toward the dark heart of the forest. 

“Hagrid?” said Harry, fighting his way through thickly 
knotted brambles over which Hagrid had stepped 
easily and remembering very vividly what had 
happened to him on the other occasions he had 
stepped off the forest path. “Where are we going?” 

“Bit further,” said Hagrid over his shoulder. “C’mon, 
Harry... We need ter keep together now...” 

It was a great struggle to keep up with Hagrid, what 
with branches and thickets of thorn through which 

Page | 878Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid marched as easily as though they were 
cobwebs, but which snagged Harry and Hermione’s 
robes, frequently entangling them so severely that 
they had to stop for minutes at a time to free 
themselves. Harry’s arms and legs were soon covered 
in small cuts and scratches. They were so deep in the 
forest now that sometimes all Harry could see of 
Hagrid in the gloom was a massive dark shape ahead 
of him. Any sound seemed threatening in the muffled 
silence. The breaking of a twig echoed loudly and the 
tiniest rustle of movement, though it might have been 
made by an innocent sparrow, caused Harry to peer 
through the gloom for a culprit. It occurred to him 
that he had never managed to get this far into the 
forest without meeting some kind of creature — their 
absence struck him as rather ominous. 

“Hagrid, would it be all right if we lit our wands?” said 
Hermione quietly. 

“Er ... all righ’,” Hagrid whispered back. “In fact ...” 

He stopped suddenly and turned around; Hermione 
walked right into him and was knocked over 
backward. Harry caught her just before she hit the 
forest floor. 

“Maybe we bes’ jus’ stop fer a momen’, so I can ... fill 
yeh in,” said Hagrid. “Before we ge’ there, like.” 

“Good!” said Hermione, as Harry set her back on her 
feet. They both murmured “Lumos\” and their wand 
tips ignited. Hagrid ’s face swam through the gloom by 
the light of the two wavering beams and Harry saw 
that he looked nervous and sad again. 

“Righ,” said Hagrid. “Well ... see ... the thing is ...” 

He took a great breath. 

Page | 879Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, there’s a good chance I’m goin’ ter be gettin’ the 
sack any day now,” he said. 



Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then back 
at him. 

“But you’ve lasted this long — ” Hermione said 
tentatively. “What makes you think — ” 

“Umbridge reckons it was me that put tha’ niffler in 
her office.” 

“And was it?” said Harry, before he could stop 
himself. 

“No, it ruddy well wasn’!” said Hagrid indignantly. 
“On’y anythin’ ter do with magical creatures an’ she 
thinks it’s got somethin’ ter do with me. Yeh know 
she’s bin lookin’ fer a chance ter get rid of me ever 
since I got back. I don’ wan’ ter go, o’ course, but if it 
wasn’ fer ... well ... the special circumstances I’m 
abou’ ter explain to yeh, I’d leave righ now, before 
she’s go’ the chance ter do it in front o’ the whole 
school, like she did with Trelawney.” 

Harry and Hermione both made noises of protest, but 
Hagrid overrode them with a wave of one of his 
enormous hands. 

“It’s not the end o’ the world, I’ll be able ter help 
Dumbledore once I’m outta here, I can be useful ter 
the Order. An’ you lot’ll have Grubbly-Plank, yeh’ll — 
yeh’ll get through yer exams fine...” His voice 
trembled and broke. 

“Don’ worry abou’ me,” he said hastily, as Hermione 
made to pat his arm. He pulled his enormous spotted 
handkerchief from the pocket of his waistcoat and 
mopped his eyes with it. “Look, I wouldn’ be tellin’ yer 

Page | 880Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




this at all if I didn’ have ter. See, if I go ... well, I can’ 
leave withou’ ... withou’ fellin’ someone ... because I’ll 
— I’ll need you two ter help me. An’ Ron, if he’s 
willin’.” 

“Of course well help you,” said Harry at once. “What 
do you want us to do?” 

Hagrid gave a great sniff and patted Harry wordlessly 
on the shoulder with such force that Harry was 
knocked sideways into a tree. 

“I knew yeh’d say yes,” said Hagrid into his 
handkerchief, “but I won’ ... never ... forget ... Well ... 
c’mon ... jus’ a little bit further through here ... Watch 
yerselves, now, there’s nettles...” 

They walked on in silence for another fifteen minutes. 
Harry had opened his mouth to ask how much farther 
they had to go when Hagrid threw out his right arm to 
signal that they should stop. 

“Really easy,” he said softly. “Very quiet, now ...” 

They crept forward and Harry saw that they were 
facing a large, smooth mound of earth nearly as tall 
as Hagrid that he thought, with a jolt of dread, was 
sure to be the lair of some enormous animal. Trees 
had been ripped up at the roots all around the 
mound, so that it stood on a bare patch of ground 
surrounded by heaps of trunks and boughs that 
formed a kind of fence or barricade, behind which 
Harry, Hermione, and Hagrid now stood. 

“Sleepin’,” breathed Hagrid. 

Sure enough, Harry could hear a distant, rhythmic 
rumbling that sounded like a pair of enormous lungs 
at work. He glanced sideways at Hermione, who was 

Page | 881Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




gazing at the mound with her mouth slightly open. 

She looked utterly terrified. 

“Hagrid,” she said in a whisper barely audible over 
the sound of the sleeping creature, “who is he?” 

Harry found this an odd question... “What is it?” was 
the one he had been planning on asking. 

“Hagrid, you told us,” said Hermione, her wand now 
shaking in her hand, “you told us none of them 
wanted to come!” 

Harry looked from her to Hagrid and then, as 
realization hit him, he looked back at the mound with 
a small gasp of horror. 

The great mound of earth, on which he, Hermione, 
and Hagrid could easily have stood, was moving 
slowly up and down in time with the deep, grunting 
breathing. It was not a mound at all. It was the 
curved back of what was clearly . . . 

“Well — no — he didn’ want ter come,” said Hagrid, 
sounding desperate. “But I had ter bring him, 
Hermione, I had ter!” 

“But why?” asked Hermione, who sounded as though 
she wanted to cry. “Why — what — oh, Hagrid\” 

“I knew if I jus’ got him back,” said Hagrid, sounding 
close to tears himself, “an’ — an’ taught him a few 
manners — I’d be able ter take him outside an’ show 
ev’ryone he’s harmless!” 

“Harmless!” said Hermione shrilly, and Hagrid made 
frantic hushing noises with his hands as the 
enormous creature before them grunted loudly and 
shifted in its sleep. “He’s been hurting you all this 

Page | 882Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




time, hasn’t he? That’s why you’ve had all these 
injuries!” 

“He don’ know his own strength!” said Hagrid 
earnestly. “An’ he’s gettin’ better, he’s not fightin’ so 
much anymore — ” 

“So this is why it took you two months to get home!” 
said Hermione distractedly. “Oh Hagrid, why did you 
bring him back if he didn’t want to come, wouldn’t he 
have been happier with his own people?” 

“They were all bullyin’ him, Hermione, ’cause he’s so 
small!” said Hagrid. 

“Small?” said Hermione. “Small?” 

“Hermione, I couldn’ leave him,” said Hagrid, tears 
now trickling down his bruised face into his beard. 
“See — he’s my brother!” 

Hermione simply stared at him, her mouth open. 

“Hagrid, when you say ‘brother,’ ” said Harry slowly, 
“do you mean — ?” 

“Well — half-brother,” amended Hagrid. “Turns out 
me mother took up with another giant when she left 
me dad, an’ she went an’ had Grawp here — ” 

“Grawp?” said Harry. 

“Yeah ... well, tha’s what it sounds like when he says 
his name,” said Hagrid anxiously. “He don’ speak a lot 
of English... I’ve bin tryin’ ter teach him... Anyway, 
she don’ seem ter have liked him much more’n she 
liked me... See, with giantesses, what counts is 
producin’ good big kids, and he’s always been a bit on 
the runty side fer a giant — on’y sixteen foot — ” 

Page | 883Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh yes, tiny!” said Hermione, with a kind of 
hysterical sarcasm. “Absolutely minuscule!” 

“He was bein’ kicked around by all o’ them — I jus’ 
couldn’ leave him — ” 

“Did Madame Maxime want to bring him back?” 
asked Harry. 

“She — well, she could see it was right importan’ ter 
me,” said Hagrid, twisting his enormous hands. “Bu’ 
— bu’ she got a bit tired of him after a while, I must 
admit ... so we split up on the journey home... She 
promised not ter tell anyone though...” 

“How on earth did you get him back without anyone 
noticing?” said Harry. 

“Well, tha’s why it took so long, see,” said Hagrid. 
“Could on’y travel by nigh an’ through wild country 
an’ stuff. ’Course, he covers the ground pretty well 
when he wants ter, but he kep’ wantin’ ter go back...” 

“Oh Hagrid, why on earth didn’t you let him!” said 
Hermione, flopping down onto a ripped-up tree and 
burying her face in her hands. “What do you think 
you’re going to do with a violent giant who doesn’t 
even want to be here!” 

“Well, now — Violent’ — tha’s a bit harsh,” said 
Hagrid, still twisting his hands agitatedly. “I’ll admit 
he mighta taken a couple o’ swings at me when he’s 
bin in a bad mood, but he’s gettin’ better, loads 
better, settlin’ down well...” 

“What are those ropes for, then?” Harry asked. 

He had just noticed ropes thick as saplings stretching 
from around the trunks of the largest nearby trees 

Page | 884Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




toward the place where Grawp lay curled on the 
ground with his back to them. 

“You have to keep him tied up?” said Hermione 
faintly. 

“Well ... yeah ...” said Hagrid, looking anxious. “See — 
it’s like I say — he doesn’ really know his strength — ” 

Harry understood now why there had been such a 
suspicious lack of any other living creature in this 
part of the forest. 

“So what is it you want Harry and Ron and me to do?” 
Hermione asked apprehensively. 

“Look after him,” said Hagrid croakily. “After I’m 
gone.” 

Harry and Hermione exchanged miserable looks, 

Harry uncomfortably aware that he had already 
promised Hagrid that he would do whatever he asked. 

“What — what does that involve, exactly?” Hermione 
inquired. 

“Not food or anythin’!” said Hagrid eagerly. “He can 
get his own food, no problem. Birds an’ deer an’ stuff 
... No, it’s company he needs. If I jus’ knew someone 
was carryin’ on tryin’ ter help him a bit ... teachin’ 
him, yeh know ...” 

Harry said nothing, but turned to look back at the 
gigantic form lying asleep on the ground in front of 
them. Grawp had his back to them. Unlike Hagrid, 
who simply looked like a very oversize human, Grawp 
looked strangely misshapen. What Harry had taken to 
be a vast mossy boulder to the left of the great 
earthen mound he now recognized as Grawp ’s head. 
Page | 885Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was much larger in proportion to the body than a 
human head, almost perfectly round and covered with 
tightly curling, close-growing hair the color of 
bracken. The rim of a single large, fleshy ear was 
visible on top of the head, which seemed to sit, rather 
like Uncle Vernon’s, directly upon the shoulders with 
little or no neck in between. The back, under what 
looked like a dirty brownish smock comprised of 
animal skins sewn roughly together, was very broad, 
and as Grawp slept, it seemed to strain a little at the 
rough seams of the skins. The legs were curled up 
under the body; Harry could see the soles of 
enormous, filthy, bare feet, large as sledges, resting 
one on top of the other on the earthy forest floor. 

“You want us to teach him,” Harry said in a hollow 
voice. He now understood what Firenze’s warning had 
meant. His attempt is not working. He would do better 
to abandon it. Of course, the other creatures who lived 
in the forest would have heard Hagrid’s fruitless 
attempts to teach Grawp English... 

“Yeah — even if yeh jus’ talk ter him a bit,” said 
Hagrid hopefully. “ ’Cause I reckon, if he can talk ter 
people, he’ll understand more that we all like him 
really, an’ want him to stay...” 

Harry looked at Hermione, who peered back at him 
from between the fingers over her face. 

“Kind of makes you wish we had Norbert back, 
doesn’t it?” he said and she gave a very shaky laugh. 

“Yeh’ll do it, then?” said Hagrid, who did not seem to 
have caught what Harry had just said. 

“We’ll ...” said Harry, already bound by his promise. 
“We’ll try, Hagrid...” 



Page | 886Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I knew I could count on yeh, Harry,” Hagrid said, 
beaming in a very watery way and dabbing at his face 
with his handkerchief again. “An’ I don’ wan’ yeh ter 
put yerself out too much, like... I know yeh’ve got 
exams... If yeh could jus’ nip down here in yer 
Invisibility Cloak maybe once a week an’ have a little 
chat with him ... I’ll wake him up, then — introduce 
you — ” 

“Wha — no!” said Hermione, jumping up, “Hagrid, no, 
don’t wake him, really, we don’t need — ” 

But Hagrid had already stepped over the great trunk 
in front of them and was proceeding toward Grawp. 
When he was around ten feet away, he lifted a long, 
broken bough from the ground, smiled reassuringly 
over his shoulder at Harry and Hermione, and then 
poked Grawp hard in the middle of the back with the 
end of the bough. 

The giant gave a roar that echoed around the silent 
forest. Birds in the treetops overhead rose twittering 
from their perches and soared away. In front of Harry 
and Hermione, meanwhile, the gigantic Grawp was 
rising from the ground, which shuddered as he placed 
an enormous hand upon it to push himself onto his 
knees and turned his head to see who and what had 
disturbed him. 

“All righ’, Grawpy?” said Hagrid in a would-be cheery 
voice, backing away with the long bough raised, ready 
to poke Grawp again. “Had a nice sleep, eh?” 

Harry and Hermione retreated as far as they could 
while still keeping the giant within their sights. Grawp 
knelt between two trees he had not yet uprooted. 

They looked up into his startlingly huge face, which 
resembled a gray full moon swimming in the gloom of 
the clearing. It was as though the features had been 
Page | 887Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hewn onto a great stone ball. The nose was stubby 
and shapeless, the mouth lopsided and full of 
misshapen yellow teeth the size of half-bricks. The 
small eyes were a muddy greenish-brown and just 
now were half gummed together with sleep. Grawp 
raised dirty knuckles as big as cricket balls to his 
eyes, rubbed vigorously, then, without warning, 
pushed himself to his feet with surprising speed and 
agility. 

“Oh my ...” Harry heard Hermione squeal, terrified, 
beside him. 

The trees to which the other ends of the ropes around 
Grawp’s wrists and ankles were attached creaked 
ominously. He was, as Hagrid had said, at least 
sixteen feet tall. Gazing blearily around, he reached 
out a hand the size of a beach umbrella, seized a 
bird’s nest from the upper branches of a towering 
pine and turned it upside down with a roar of 
apparent displeasure that there was no bird in it — 
eggs fell like grenades toward the ground and Hagrid 
threw his arms over his head to protect himself. 

“Anyway, Grawpy,” shouted Hagrid, looking up 
apprehensively in case of further falling eggs, “I’ve 
brought some friends ter meet yeh. Remember, I told 
yeh I might? Remember, when I said I might have ter 
go on a little trip an’ leave them ter look after yeh fer 
a bit? Remember that, Grawpy?” 

But Grawp merely gave another low roar; it was hard 
to say whether he was listening to Hagrid or whether 
he even recognized the sounds Hagrid was making as 
speech. He had now seized the top of the pine tree 
and was pulling it toward him, evidently for the 
simple pleasure of seeing how far it would spring 
back when he let go. 



Page | 888Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Now, Grawpy, don’ do that!” shouted Hagrid. “Tha’s 
how you ended up pullin’ up the others — ” 

And sure enough, Harry could see the earth around 
the tree’s roots beginning to crack. 

“I got company fer yeh!” Hagrid shouted. “Company, 
see! Look down, yeh big buffoon, I brought yeh some 
friends!” 

“Oh Hagrid, don’t,” moaned Hermione, but Hagrid 
had already raised the bough again and gave Grawp’s 
knee a sharp poke. 

The giant let go of the top of the pine tree, which 
swayed menacingly and deluged Hagrid with a rain of 
needles, and looked down. 

“This,” said Hagrid, hastening over to where Harry 
and Hermione stood, “is Harry, Grawp! Harry Potter! 
He migh’ be cornin’ ter visit yeh if I have ter go away, 
understand?” 

The giant had only just realized that Harry and 
Hermione were there. They watched, in great 
trepidation, as he lowered his huge boulder of a head 
so that he could peer blearily at them. 

“An’ this is Hermione, see? Her — ” Hagrid hesitated. 
Turning to Hermione he said, “Would yeh mind if he 
called yeh Hermy, Hermione? On’y it’s a difficult 
name fer him ter remember...” 

“No, not at all,” squeaked Hermione. 

“This is Hermy, Grawp! An’ she’s gonna be cornin’ an’ 
all! Is’n tha’ nice? Eh? Two friends fer yeh ter — 
GRAWPY, NO!” 



Page | 889Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Grawp’s hand had shot out of nowhere toward 
Hermione — Harry seized her and pulled her 
backward behind the tree, so that Grawp’s fist 
scraped the trunk but closed on thin air. 

“BAD BOY, GRAWPY!” Harry heard Hagrid yelling, as 
Hermione clung to Harry behind the tree, shaking 
and whimpering. “VERY BAD BOY! YEH DON’ GRAB 

— OUCH!” 

Harry poked his head out from around the trunk and 
saw Hagrid lying on his back, his hand over his nose. 
Grawp, apparently losing interest, had straightened 
up again and was again engaged in pulling back the 
pine as far as it would go. 

“Righ’,” said Hagrid thickly, getting up with one hand 
pinching his bleeding nose and the other grasping his 
crossbow. “Well ... there yeh are... Yeh’ve met him an’ 

— an’ now he’ll know yeh when yeh come back. Yeah 
...well...” 

He looked up at Grawp, who was now pulling back 
the pine with an expression of detached pleasure on 
his boulderish face; the roots were creaking as he 
ripped them away from the ground... 

“Well, I reckon tha’s enough fer one day,” said Hagrid. 
“We’ll — er — we’ll go back now, shall we?” 

Harry and Hermione nodded. Hagrid shouldered his 
crossbow again and, still pinching his nose, led the 
way back into the trees. 

Nobody spoke for a while, not even when they heard 
the distant crash that meant Grawp had pulled over 
the pine tree at last. Hermione’s face was pale and 
set. Harry could not think of a single thing to say. 
What on earth was going to happen when somebody 
Page | 890Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




found out that Hagrid had hidden Grawp in the 
forest? And he had promised that he, Ron, and 
Hermione would continue Hagrid’s totally pointless 
attempts to civilize the giant... How could Hagrid, 
even with his immense capacity to delude himself 
that fanged monsters were lovably harmless, fool 
himself that Grawp would ever be fit to mix with 
humans? 

“Hold it,” said Hagrid abruptly, just as Harry and 
Hermione were struggling through a patch of thick 
knotgrass behind him. He pulled an arrow out of the 
quiver over his shoulder and fitted it into the 
crossbow. Harry and Hermione raised their wands; 
now that they had stopped walking, they too could 
hear movement close by. 

“Oh blimey,” said Hagrid quietly. 

“I thought that we told you, Hagrid,” said a deep male 
voice, “that you are no longer welcome here?” 

A man’s naked torso seemed for an instant to be 
floating toward them through the dappled green half- 
light. Then they saw that his waist joined smoothly 
with a horse’s chestnut body. This centaur had a 
proud, high-cheekboned face and long black hair. 

Like Hagrid, he was armed: A quiverful of arrows and 
a long bow were slung over his shoulders. 

“How are yeh, Magorian?” said Hagrid warily. 

The trees behind the centaur rustled and four or five 
more emerged behind him. Harry recognized the 
black-bodied and bearded Bane, whom he had met 
nearly four years ago on the same night he had met 
Firenze. Bane gave no sign that he had ever seen 
Harry before. 



Page | 891Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“So,” he said, with a nasty inflection in his voice, 
before turning immediately to Magorian. “We agreed, I 
think, what we would do if this human showed his 
face in the forest again?” 

“ This human’ now, am I?” said Hagrid testily. “Jus’ 
fer stoppin’ all of yeh committin’ murder?” 

“You ought not to have meddled, Hagrid,” said 
Magorian. “Our ways are not yours, nor are our laws. 
Firenze has betrayed and dishonored us.” 

“I dunno how yeh work that out,” said Hagrid 
impatiently. “He’s done nothin’ except help Albus 
Dumbledore — ” 

“Firenze has entered into servitude to humans,” said 
a gray centaur with a hard, deeply lined face. 

“ Servitude !” said Hagrid scathingly. “He’s doin’ 
Dumbledore a favor is all — ” 

“He is peddling our knowledge and secrets among 
humans,” said Magorian quietly. “There can be no 
return from such disgrace.” 

“If yeh say so,” said Hagrid, shrugging, “but 
personally I think yeh ’re makin’ a big mistake — ” 

“As are you, human,” said Bane, “coming back into 
our forest when we warned you — ” 

“Now, you listen ter me,” said Hagrid angrily. “I’ll have 
less of the ‘our’ forest, if it’s all the same ter you. It’s 
not up ter you who comes an’ goes in here — ” 

“No more is it up to you, Hagrid,” said Magorian 
smoothly. “I shall let you pass today because you are 
accompanied by your young — ” 

Page | 892Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re not his!” interrupted Bane contemptuously. 
“Students, Magorian, from up at the school! They 
have probably already profited from the traitor 
F irenze ’s teachings ...” 

“Nevertheless,” said Magorian calmly, “the slaughter 
of foals is a terrible crime... We do not touch the 
innocent. Today, Hagrid, you pass. Henceforth, stay 
away from this place. You forfeited the friendship of 
the centaurs when you helped the traitor Firenze 
escape us.” 

“I won’ be kept outta the fores’ by a bunch of mules 
like you!” said Hagrid loudly. 

“Hagrid,” said Hermione in a high-pitched and 
terrified voice, as both Bane and the gray centaur 
pawed at the ground, “let’s go, please lets go! 

Hagrid moved forward, but his crossbow was still 
raised and his eyes were still fixed threateningly upon 
Magorian. 

“We know what you are keeping in the forest, Hagrid!” 
Magorian called after them, as the centaurs slipped 
out of sight. “And our tolerance is waning!” 

Hagrid turned and gave every appearance of wanting 
to walk straight back to Magorian again. 

“You’ll tolerate him as long as he’s here, it’s as much 
his forest as yours!” he yelled, while Harry and 
Hermione both pushed with all their might against 
Hagrid ’s moleskin waistcoat in an effort to keep him 
moving forward. Still scowling, he looked down; his 
expression changed to mild surprise at the sight of 
them both pushing him. He seemed not to have felt it. 



Page | 893Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Calm down, you two,” he said, turning to walk on 
while they panted along behind him. “Ruddy old nags 
though, eh?” 

“Hagrid,” said Hermione breathlessly, skirting the 
patch of nettles they had passed on their way there, 
“if the centaurs don’t want humans in the forest, it 
doesn’t really look as though Harry and I will be able 



“Ah, you heard what they said,” said Hagrid 
dismissively “They wouldn’t hurt foals — I mean, 
kids. Anyway, we can’ let ourselves be pushed around 
by that lot...” 

“Nice try,” Harry murmured to Hermione, who looked 
crestfallen. 

At last they rejoined the path and after another ten 
minutes, the trees began to thin. They were able to 
see patches of clear blue sky again and hear, in the 
distance, the definite sounds of cheering and 
shouting. 

“Was that another goal?” asked Hagrid, pausing in 
the shelter of the trees as the Quidditch stadium 
came into view. “Or d’you reckon the match is over?” 

“I don’t know,” said Hermione miserably. Harry saw 
that she looked much the worse for wear; her hair 
was full of bits of twig and leaves, her robes were 
ripped in several places and there were numerous 
scratches on her face and arms. He knew he could 
look little better. 

“I reckon it’s over, yeh know!” said Hagrid, still 
squinting toward the stadium. “Look — there’s people 
cornin’ out already — if you two hurry yeh ’ll be able 



Page | 894Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ter blend in with the crowd an’ no one’ll know you 
weren’t there!” 



“Good idea,” said Harry. “Well ... see you later, then, 
Hagrid...” 

“I don’t believe him,” said Hermione in a very 
unsteady voice, the moment they were out of earshot 
of Hagrid. “I don’t believe him. I really don’t believe 
him...” 

“Calm down,” said Harry. 

“Calm down!” she said feverishly. “A giant! A giant in 
the forest! And we’re supposed to give him English 
lessons! Always assuming, of course, we can get past 
the herd of murderous centaurs on the way in and 
out! I — don’t — believe — him!” 

“We haven’t got to do anything yet!” Harry tried to 
reassure her in a quiet voice, as they joined a stream 
of jabbering Hufflepuffs heading back toward the 
castle. “He’s not asking us to do anything unless he 
gets chucked out and that might not even happen — ” 

“Oh come off it, Harry!” said Hermione angrily, 
stopping dead in her tracks so that the people behind 
her had to swerve to avoid her. “Of course he’s going 
to be chucked out and to be perfectly honest, after 
what we’ve just seen, who can blame Umbridge?” 

There was a pause in which Harry glared at her, and 
her eyes filled slowly with tears. 

“You didn’t mean that,” said Harry quietly. 

“No ... well ... all right ... I didn’t,” she said, wiping 
her eyes angrily. “But why does he have to make life 
so difficult for himself — for us?” 

Page | 895Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I dunno — ” 



Weasley is our King, 

Weasley is our King, 

He didn’t let the Quaffle in, 

Weasley is our King . . . 

“And I wish they’d stop singing that stupid song,” said 
Hermione miserably, “haven’t they gloated enough?” 

A great tide of students was moving up the sloping 
lawns from the pitch. 

“Oh, let’s get in before we have to meet the 
Slytherins,” said Hermione. 

Weasley can save anything, 

He never leaves a single ring 
That’s why Gryffindors all sing: 

Weasley is our King. 

“Hermione ...” said Harry slowly. 

The song was growing louder, but it was issuing not 
from a crowd of green-and-silver-clad Slytherins, but 
from a mass of red and gold moving slowly toward the 
castle, which was bearing a solitary figure upon its 
many shoulders... 

Weasley is our King, 

Weasley is our King, 

He didn’t let the Quaffle in, 

Weasley is our King . . . 

“No!” said Hermione in a hushed voice. 

“YES!” said Harry loudly. 



Page | 896Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




