
“Fine — we won’t ask you what you’re doing, if you 
don’t ask us,” he said. 

He was holding a sealed envelope in his hands. Harry 
glanced at it, but Fred, whether accidentally or on 
purpose, shifted his hand so that the name on it was 
covered. 



Page | 627 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, don’t let us hold you up,” Fred said, making a 
mock bow and pointing at the door. 

Ron didn’t move. “Who’re you blackmailing?” he said. 

The grin vanished from Fred’s face. Harry saw George 
half glance at Fred, before smiling at Ron. 

“Don’t be stupid, I was only joking,” he said easily. 

“Didn’t sound like that,” said Ron. 

Fred and George looked at each other. Then Fred said 
abruptly, “I’ve told you before, Ron, keep your nose 
out if you like it the shape it is. Can’t see why you 
would, but — ” 

“It’s my business if you’re blackmailing someone,” 
said Ron. “George’s right, you could end up in serious 
trouble for that.” 

“Told you, I was joking,” said George. He walked over 
to Fred, pulled the letter out of his hands, and began 
attaching it to the leg of the nearest barn owl. “You’re 
starting to sound a bit like our dear older brother, 
you are, Ron. Carry on like this and you’ll be made a 
prefect.” 

“No, I won’t!” said Ron hotly. 

George carried the barn owl over to the window and it 
took off. George turned around and grinned at Ron. 

“Well, stop telling people what to do then. See you 
later.” 

He and Fred left the Owlery. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione stared at one another. 



Page | 628 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You don’t think they know something about all this, 
do you?” Hermione whispered. “About Crouch and 
everything?” 

“No,” said Harry. “If it was something that serious, 
they’d tell someone. They’d tell Dumbledore.” 

Ron, however, was looking uncomfortable. 

“What’s the matter?” Hermione asked him. 

“Well ...” said Ron slowly, “I dunno if they would. 
They’re ... they’re obsessed with making money lately, 

I noticed it when I was hanging around with them — 
when — you know — ” 

“We weren’t talking.” Harry finished the sentence for 
him. “Yeah, but blackmail ...” 

“It’s this joke shop idea they’ve got,” said Ron. “I 
thought they were only saying it to annoy Mum, but 
they really mean it, they want to start one. They’ve 
only got a year left at Hogwarts, they keep going on 
about how it’s time to think about their future, and 
Dad can’t help them, and they need gold to get 
started.” 

Hermione was looking uncomfortable now. 

“Yes, but ... they wouldn’t do anything against the law 
to get gold.” 

“Wouldn’t they?” said Ron, looking skeptical. “I dunno 
... they don’t exactly mind breaking rules, do they?” 

“Yes, but this is the law,” said Hermione, looking 
scared. “This isn’t some silly school rule. ... They’ll get 
a lot more than detention for blackmail! Ron ... maybe 
you’d better tell Percy. ...” 

Page | 629 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you mad?” said Ron. “Tell Percy? He’d probably 
do a Crouch and turn them in.” He stared at the 
window through which Fred and Georges owl had 
departed, then said, “Come on, let’s get some 
breakfast.” 

“D’you think it’s too early to go and see Professor 
Moody?” Hermione said as they went down the spiral 
staircase. 

“Yes,” said Harry. “He’d probably blast us through the 
door if we wake him at the crack of dawn; he’ll think 
we’re trying to attack him while he’s asleep. Let’s give 
it till break.” 

History of Magic had rarely gone so slowly. Harry kept 
checking Ron’s watch, having finally discarded his 
own, but Ron’s was moving so slowly he could have 
sworn it had stopped working too. All three of them 
were so tired they could happily have put their heads 
down on the desks and slept; even Hermione wasn’t 
taking her usual notes, but was sitting with her head 
on her hand, gazing at Professor Binns with her eyes 
out of focus. 

When the bell finally rang, they hurried out into the 
corridors toward the Dark Arts classroom and found 
Professor Moody leaving it. He looked as tired as they 
felt. The eyelid of his normal eye was drooping, giving 
his face an even more lopsided appearance than 
usual. 

“Professor Moody?” Harry called as they made their 
way toward him through the crowd. 

“Hello, Potter,” growled Moody. His magical eye 
followed a couple of passing first years, who sped up, 
looking nervous; it rolled into the back of Moody’s 



Page | 630 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




head and watched them around the corner before he 
spoke again. 



“Come in here.” 

He stood back to let them into his empty classroom, 
limped in after them, and closed the door. 

“Did you find him?” Harry asked without preamble. 
“Mr. Crouch?” 

“No,” said Moody. He moved over to his desk, sat 
down, stretched out his wooden leg with a slight 
groan, and pulled out his hip flask. 

“Did you use the map?” Harry said. 

“Of course,” said Moody, taking a swig from his flask. 
“Took a leaf out of your book, Potter. Summoned it 
from my office into the forest. He wasn’t anywhere on 
there.” 

“So he did Disapparate?” said Ron. 

“You can’t Disapparate on the grounds, Ron\” said 
Hermione. “There are other ways he could have 
disappeared, aren’t there, Professor?” 

Moody’s magical eye quivered as it rested on 
Hermione. “You’re another one who might think about 
a career as an Auror,” he told her. “Mind works the 
right way, Granger.” 

Hermione flushed pink with pleasure. 

“Well, he wasn’t invisible,” said Harry. “The map 
shows invisible people. He must’ve left the grounds, 
then.” 

Page | 631 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“But under his own steam?” said Hermione eagerly, 

“or because someone made him?” 

“Yeah, someone could’ve — could’ve pulled him onto a 
broom and flown off with him, couldn’t they?” said 
Ron quickly, looking hopefully at Moody as if he too 
wanted to be told he had the makings of an Auror. 

“We can’t rule out kidnap,” growled Moody. 

“So,” said Ron, “d’you reckon he’s somewhere in 
Hogsmeade?” 

“Could be anywhere,” said Moody, shaking his head. 
“Only thing we know for sure is that he’s not here.” 

He yawned widely, so that his scars stretched, and 
his lopsided mouth revealed a number of missing 
teeth. Then he said, “Now, Dumbledore’s told me you 
three fancy yourselves as investigators, but there’s 
nothing you can do for Crouch. The Ministry’ll be 
looking for him now, Dumbledore’s notified them. 
Potter, you just keep your mind on the third task.” 

“What?” said Harry. “Oh yeah ...” 

He hadn’t given the maze a single thought since he’d 
left it with Krum the previous night. 

“Should be right up your street, this one,” said 
Moody, looking up at Harry and scratching his 
scarred and stubbly chin. “From what Dumbledore’s 
said, you’ve managed to get through stuff like this 
plenty of times. Broke your way through a series of 
obstacles guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone in your first 
year, didn’t you?” 

“We helped,” Ron said quickly. “Me and Hermione 
helped.” 

Page | 632 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Moody grinned. 



“Well, help him practice for this one, and I’ll be very 
surprised if he doesn’t win,” said Moody. “In the 
meantime ... constant vigilance, Potter. Constant 
vigilance.” He took another long draw from his hip 
flask, and his magical eye swiveled onto the window. 
The topmost sail of the Durmstrang ship was visible 
through it. 

“You two,” counseled Moody, his normal eye on Ron 
and Hermione, “you stick close to Potter, all right? I’m 
keeping an eye on things, but all the same ... you can 
never have too many eyes out.” 



•k k k 



Sirius sent their owl back the very next morning. It 
fluttered down beside Harry at the same moment that 
a tawny owl landed in front of Hermione, clutching a 
copy of the Daily Prophet in its beak. She took the 
newspaper, scanned the first few pages, said, “Ha! 

She hasn’t got wind of Crouch!” then joined Ron and 
Harry in reading what Sirius had to say on the 
mysterious events of the night before last. 

Harry — what do you think you are playing at, 
walking off into the forest with Viktor Krum? I want 
you to swear, by return owl, that you are not going to 
go walking with anyone else at night. There is 
somebody highly dangerous at Hogwarts. It is clear to 
me that they wanted to stop Crouch from seeing 
Dumbledore and you were probably feet away from 
them in the dark. You could have been killed. 

Your name didn’t get into the Goblet of Fire by 
accident. If someone’s trying to attack you, they’re on 

Page | 633 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




their last chance. Stay close to Ron and Hermione, do 
not leave Gryffindor Tower after hours, and arm 
yourself for the third task. Practice Stunning and 
Disarming. A few hexes wouldn’t go amiss either. 
There’s nothing you can do about Crouch. Keep your 
head down and look after yourself. I’m waiting for your 
letter giving me your word you won’t stray out-of- 
bounds again. 

Sirius 

“Who’s he, to lecture me about being out-of-bounds?” 
said Harry in mild indignation as he folded up Sirius’s 
letter and put it inside his robes. “After all the stuff he 
did at school!” 

“He’s worried about you!” said Hermione sharply. 

“Just like Moody and Hagrid! So listen to them!” 

“No one’s tried to attack me all year,” said Harry. “No 
one’s done anything to me at all — ” 

“Except put your name in the Goblet of Fire,” said 
Hermione. “And they must’ve done that for a reason, 
Harry. Snuffles is right. Maybe they’ve been biding 
their time. Maybe this is the task they’re going to get 
you.” 

“Look,” said Harry impatiently, “let’s say Sirius is 
right, and someone Stunned Krum to kidnap Crouch. 
Well, they would’ve been in the trees near us, 
wouldn’t they? But they waited till I was out of the 
way until they acted, didn’t they? So it doesn’t look 
like I’m their target, does it?” 

“They couldn’t have made it look like an accident if 
they’d murdered you in the forest!” said Hermione. 
“But if you die during a task — ” 



Page | 634 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They didn’t care about attacking Krum, did they?” 
said Harry. “Why didn’t they just polish me off at the 
same time? They could’ve made it look like Krum and 
I had a duel or something.” 

“Harry, I don’t understand it either,” said Hermione 
desperately. “I just know there are a lot of odd things 
going on, and I don’t like it. ... Moody’s right — Sirius 
is right — you’ve got to get in training for the third 
task, straight away. And you make sure you write 
back to Sirius and promise him you’re not going to go 
sneaking off alone again.” 

The Hogwarts grounds never looked more inviting 
than when Harry had to stay indoors. For the next 
few days he spent all of his free time either in the 
library with Hermione and Ron, looking up hexes, or 
else in empty classrooms, which they sneaked into to 
practice. Harry was concentrating on the Stunning 
Spell, which he had never used before. The trouble 
was that practicing it involved certain sacrifices on 
Ron’s and Hermione ’s part. 

“Can’t we kidnap Mrs. Norris?” Ron suggested on 
Monday lunchtime as he lay flat on his back in the 
middle of their Charms classroom, having just been 
Stunned and reawoken by Harry for the fifth time in a 
row. “Let’s Stun her for a bit. Or you could use 
Dobby, Harry, I bet he’d do anything to help you. I’m 
not complaining or anything” — he got gingerly to his 
feet, rubbing his backside — “but I’m aching all over. 



“Well, you keep missing the cushions, don’t you!” said 
Hermione impatiently, rearranging the pile of 
cushions they had used for the Banishing Spell, 
which Flitwick had left in a cabinet. “Just try and fall 
backward!” 



Page | 635 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Once you’re Stunned, you can’t aim too well, 
Hermione!” said Ron angrily. “Why don’t you take a 
turn?” 

“Well, I think Harry’s got it now, anyway,” said 
Hermione hastily. “And we don’t have to worry about 
Disarming, because he’s been able to do that for ages. 
... I think we ought to start on some of these hexes 
this evening.” 

She looked down the list they had made in the 
library. 

“I like the look of this one,” she said, “this 
Impediment Curse. Should slow down anything that’s 
trying to attack you, Harry. We’ll start with that one.” 

The bell rang. They hastily shoved the cushions back 
into Flitwick’s cupboard and slipped out of the 
classroom. 

“See you at dinner!” said Hermione, and she set off for 
Arithmancy, while Harry and Ron headed toward 
North Tower, and Divination. Broad strips of dazzling 
gold sunlight fell across the corridor from the high 
windows. The sky outside was so brightly blue it 
looked as though it had been enameled. 

“It’s going to be boiling in Trelawney’s room, she never 
puts out that fire,” said Ron as they started up the 
staircase toward the silver ladder and the trapdoor. 

He was quite right. The dimly lit room was 
swelteringly hot. The fumes from the perfumed fire 
were heavier than ever. Harry’s head swam as he 
made his way over to one of the curtained windows. 
While Professor Trelawney was looking the other way, 
disentangling her shawl from a lamp, he opened it an 
inch or so and settled back in his chintz armchair, so 
Page | 636 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




that a soft breeze played across his face. It was 
extremely comfortable. 

“My dears,” said Professor Trelawney, sitting down in 
her winged armchair in front of the class and peering 
around at them all with her strangely enlarged eyes, 
“we have almost finished our work on planetary 
divination. Today, however, will be an excellent 
opportunity to examine the effects of Mars, for he is 
placed most interestingly at the present time. If you 
will all look this way, I will dim the lights. ...” 

She waved her wand and the lamps went out. The fire 
was the only source of light now. Professor Trelawney 
bent down and lifted, from under her chair, a 
miniature model of the solar system, contained within 
a glass dome. It was a beautiful thing; each of the 
moons glimmered in place around the nine planets 
and the fiery sun, all of them hanging in thin air 
beneath the glass. Harry watched lazily as Professor 
Trelawney began to point out the fascinating angle 
Mars was making to Neptune. The heavily perfumed 
fumes washed over him, and the breeze from the 
window played across his face. He could hear an 
insect humming gently somewhere behind the 
curtain. His eyelids began to droop. ... 

He was riding on the back of an eagle owl, soaring 
through the clear blue sky toward an old, ivy-covered 
house set high on a hillside. Lower and lower they 
flew, the wind blowing pleasantly in Harry’s face, until 
they reached a dark and broken window in the upper 
story of the house and entered. Now they were flying 
along a gloomy passageway, to a room at the very end 
. . . through the door they went, into a dark room 
whose windows were boarded up. ... 

Harry had left the owl’s back ... he was watching, 
now, as it fluttered across the room, into a chair with 

Page | 637 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




its back to him. ... There were two dark shapes on the 
floor beside the chair . . . both of them were stirring. . . . 

One was a huge snake . . . the other was a man ... a 
short, balding man, a man with watery eyes and a 
pointed nose ... he was wheezing and sobbing on the 
hearth rug. . . . 

“You are in luck, Wormtail,” said a cold, high-pitched 
voice from the depths of the chair in which the owl 
had landed. “You are very fortunate indeed. Your 
blunder has not ruined everything. He is dead.” 

“My Lord!” gasped the man on the floor. “My Lord, I 
am ... 1 am so pleased ... and so sorry. ...” 

“Nagini,” said the cold voice, “you are out of luck. 1 
will not be feeding Wormtail to you, after all ... but 
never mind, never mind . . . there is still Harry Potter. 



The snake hissed. Harry could see its tongue 
fluttering. 

“Now, Wormtail,” said the cold voice, “perhaps one 
more little reminder why I will not tolerate another 
blunder from you. ...” 

“My Lord ... no ... I beg you ...” 

The tip of a wand emerged from around the back of 
the chair, ft was pointing at Wormtail. 

“Crucio\” said the cold voice. 

Wormtail screamed, screamed as though every nerve 
in his body were on fire, the screaming filled Harry’s 
ears as the scar on his forehead seared with pain; he 



Page | 638 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




was yelling too. ... Voldemort would hear him, would 
know he was there. ... 



“Harry! Harry\” 

Harry opened his eyes. He was lying on the floor of 
Professor Trelawney’s room with his hands over his 
face. His scar was still burning so badly that his eyes 
were watering. The pain had been real. The whole 
class was standing around him, and Ron was 
kneeling next to him, looking terrified. 

“You all right?” he said. 

“Of course he isn’t!” said Professor Trelawney, looking 
thoroughly excited. Her great eyes loomed over Harry, 
gazing at him. “What was it, Potter? A premonition? 
An apparition? What did you see?” 

“Nothing,” Harry lied. He sat up. He could feel himself 
shaking. He couldn’t stop himself from looking 
around, into the shadows behind him; Voldemort’s 
voice had sounded so close. ... 

“You were clutching your scar!” said Professor 
Trelawney. “You were rolling on the floor, clutching 
your scar! Come now, Potter, I have experience in 
these matters!” 

Harry looked up at her. 

“I need to go to the hospital wing, I think,” he said. 
“Bad headache.” 

“My dear, you were undoubtedly stimulated by the 
extraordinary clairvoyant vibrations of my room!” said 
Professor Trelawney “If you leave now, you may lose 
the opportunity to see further than you have ever — ” 

Page | 639 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t want to see anything except a headache cure,” 
said Harry. 

He stood up. The class backed away. They all looked 
unnerved. 

“See you later,” Harry muttered to Ron, and he picked 
up his bag and headed for the trapdoor, ignoring 
Professor Trelawney, who was wearing an expression 
of great frustration, as though she had just been 
denied a real treat. 

When Harry reached the bottom of her stepladder, 
however, he did not set off for the hospital wing. He 
had no intention whatsoever of going there. Sirius 
had told him what to do if his scar hurt him again, 
and Harry was going to follow his advice: He was 
going straight to Dumbledore’s office. He marched 
down the corridors, thinking about what he had seen 
in the dream ... it had been as vivid as the one that 
had awoken him on Privet Drive. ... He ran over the 
details in his mind, trying to make sure he could 
remember them. ... He had heard Voldemort accusing 
Wormtail of making a blunder ... but the owl had 
brought good news, the blunder had been repaired, 
somebody was dead ... so Wormtail was not going to 
be fed to the snake ... he, Harry, was going to be fed 
to it instead. ... 

Harry had walked right past the stone gargoyle 
guarding the entrance to Dumbledore’s office without 
noticing. He blinked, looked around, realized what he 
had done, and retraced his steps, stopping in front of 
it. Then he remembered that he didn’t know the 
password. 

“Sherbet lemon?” he tried tentatively. 

The gargoyle did not move. 

Page | 640 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Okay,” said Harry, staring at it, “Pear Drop. Er — 
Licorice Wand. Fizzing Whizbee. Drooble’s Best 
Blowing Gum. Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans ... oh 
no, he doesn’t like them, does he? ... oh just open, 
can’t you?” he said angrily. “I really need to see him, 
it’s urgent!” 

The gargoyle remained immovable. 

Harry kicked it, achieving nothing but an excruciating 
pain in his big toe. 

“Chocolate Frog!” he yelled angrily, standing on one 
leg. “Sugar Quill! Cockroach Cluster!” 

The gargoyle sprang to life and jumped aside. Harry 
blinked. 

“Cockroach Cluster?” he said, amazed. “I was only 
joking. ...” 

He hurried through the gap in the walls and stepped 
onto the foot of a spiral stone staircase, which moved 
slowly upward as the doors closed behind him, taking 
him up to a polished oak door with a brass door 
knocker. 

He could hear voices from inside the office. He 
stepped off the moving staircase and hesitated, 
listening. 

“Dumbledore, I’m afraid I don’t see the connection, 
don’t see it at all!” It was the voice of the Minister of 
Magic, Cornelius Fudge. “Ludo says Bertha’s perfectly 
capable of getting herself lost. I agree we would have 
expected to have found her by now, but all the same, 
we’ve no evidence of foul play, Dumbledore, none at 
all. As for her disappearance being linked with Barty 
Crouch’s!” 

Page | 641 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“And what do you thinks happened to Barty Crouch, 
Minister?” said Moody’s growling voice. 

“I see two possibilities, Alastor,” said Fudge. “Either 
Crouch has finally cracked — more than likely, I’m 
sure you’ll agree, given his personal history — lost his 
mind, and gone wandering off somewhere — ” 

“He wandered extremely quickly, if that is the case, 
Cornelius,” said Dumbledore calmly. 

“Or else — well ...” Fudge sounded embarrassed. 

“Well, I’ll reserve judgment until after I’ve seen the 
place where he was found, but you say it was just 
past the Beauxbatons carriage? Dumbledore, you 
know what that woman is?” 

“I consider her to be a very able headmistress — and 
an excellent dancer,” said Dumbledore quietly. 

“Dumbledore, come!” said Fudge angrily. “Don’t you 
think you might be prejudiced in her favor because of 
Hagrid? They don’t all turn out harmless — if, indeed, 
you can call Hagrid harmless, with that monster 
fixation he’s got — ” 

“I no more suspect Madame Maxime than Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore, just as calmly. “I think it possible 
that it is you who are prejudiced, Cornelius.” 

“Can we wrap up this discussion?” growled Moody. 

“Yes, yes, let’s go down to the grounds, then,” said 
Fudge impatiently. 

“No, it’s not that,” said Moody, “it’s just that Potter 
wants a word with you, Dumbledore. He’s just outside 
the door.” 



Page | 642 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE PENSIEVE 

The door of the office opened. 

“Hello, Potter,” said Moody. “Come in, then.” 

Harry walked inside. He had been inside 
Dumbledore’s office once before; it was a very 
beautiful, circular room, lined with pictures of 
previous headmasters and headmistresses of 
Hogwarts, all of whom were fast asleep, their chests 
rising and falling gently. 

Cornelius Fudge was standing beside Dumbledore’s 
desk, wearing his usual pinstriped cloak and holding 
his lime-green bowler hat. 

“Harry!” said Fudge jovially, moving forward. “How are 
you?” 

“Fine,” Harry lied. 



Page | 643 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“We were just talking about the night when Mr. 
Crouch turned up on the grounds,” said Fudge. “It 
was you who found him, was it not?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. Then, feeling it was pointless to 
pretend that he hadn’t overheard what they had been 
saying, he added, “I didn’t see Madame Maxime 
anywhere, though, and she’d have a job hiding, 
wouldn’t she?” 

Dumbledore smiled at Harry behind Fudge’s back, his 
eyes twinkling. 

“Yes, well,” said Fudge, looking embarrassed, “we’re 
about to go for a short walk on the grounds, Harry, if 
you’ll excuse us ... perhaps if you just go back to your 
class — ” 

“I wanted to talk to you, Professor,” Harry said 
quickly, looking at Dumbledore, who gave him a swift, 
searching look. 

“Wait here for me, Harry,” he said. “Our examination 
of the grounds will not take long.” 

They trooped out in silence past him and closed the 
door. After a minute or so, Harry heard the clunks of 
Moody’s wooden leg growing fainter in the corridor 
below. He looked around. 

“Hello, Fawkes,” he said. 

Fawkes, Professor Dumbledore’s phoenix, was 
standing on his golden perch beside the door. The 
size of a swan, with magnificent scarlet-and-gold 
plumage, he swished his long tail and blinked 
benignly at Harry. 



Page | 644 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry sat down in a chair in front of Dumbledore’s 
desk. For several minutes, he sat and watched the old 
headmasters and headmistresses snoozing in their 
frames, thinking about what he had just heard, and 
running his fingers over his scar. It had stopped 
hurting now. 

He felt much calmer, somehow, now that he was in 
Dumbledore’s office, knowing he would shortly be 
telling him about the dream. Harry looked up at the 
walls behind the desk. The patched and ragged 
Sorting Hat was standing on a shelf. A glass case next 
to it held a magnificent silver sword with large rubies 
set into the hilt, which Harry recognized as the one he 
himself had pulled out of the Sorting Hat in his 
second year. The sword had once belonged to Godric 
Gryffindor, founder of Harry’s House. He was gazing 
at it, remembering how it had come to his aid when 
he had thought all hope was lost, when he noticed a 
patch of silvery light, dancing and shimmering on the 
glass case. He looked around for the source of the 
light and saw a sliver of silver-white shining brightly 
from within a black cabinet behind him, whose door 
had not been closed properly. Harry hesitated, 
glanced at Fawkes, then got up, walked across the 
office, and pulled open the cabinet door. 

A shallow stone basin lay there, with odd carvings 
around the edge: runes and symbols that Harry did 
not recognize. The silvery light was coming from the 
basin’s contents, which were like nothing Harry had 
ever seen before. He could not tell whether the 
substance was liquid or gas. It was a bright, whitish 
silver, and it was moving ceaselessly; the surface of it 
became ruffled like water beneath wind, and then, 
like clouds, separated and swirled smoothly. It looked 
like light made liquid — or like wind made solid — 
Harry couldn’t make up his mind. 



Page | 645 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He wanted to touch it, to find out what it felt like, but 
nearly four years’ experience of the magical world told 
him that sticking his hand into a bowl full of some 
unknown substance was a very stupid thing to do. He 
therefore pulled his wand out of the inside of his 
robes, cast a nervous look around the office, looked 
back at the contents of the basin, and prodded them. 

The surface of the silvery stuff inside the basin began 
to swirl very fast. 

Harry bent closer, his head right inside the cabinet. 
The silvery substance had become transparent; it 
looked like glass. He looked down into it, expecting to 
see the stone bottom of the basin — and saw instead 
an enormous room below the surface of the 
mysterious substance, a room into which he seemed 
to be looking through a circular window in the ceiling. 

The room was dimly lit; he thought it might even be 
underground, for there were no windows, merely 
torches in brackets such as the ones that illuminated 
the walls of Hogwarts. Lowering his face so that his 
nose was a mere inch away from the glassy 
substance, Harry saw that rows and rows of witches 
and wizards were seated around every wall on what 
seemed to be benches rising in levels. An empty chair 
stood in the very center of the room. There was 
something about the chair that gave Harry an 
ominous feeling. Chains encircled the arms of it, as 
though its occupants were usually tied to it. 

Where was this place? It surely wasn’t Hogwarts; he 
had never seen a room like that here in the castle. 
Moreover, the crowd in the mysterious room at the 
bottom of the basin was comprised of adults, and 
Harry knew there were not nearly that many teachers 
at Hogwarts. They seemed, he thought, to be waiting 
for something; even though he could only see the tops 
Page | 646 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




of their hats, all of their faces seemed to be pointing 
in one direction, and none of them were talking to one 
another. 

The basin being circular, and the room he was 
observing square, Harry could not make out what was 
going on in the corners of it. He leaned even closer, 
tilting his head, trying to see . . . 

The tip of his nose touched the strange substance 
into which he was staring. 

Dumbledore’s office gave an almighty lurch — Harry 
was thrown forward and pitched headfirst into the 
substance inside the basin — 

But his head did not hit the stone bottom. He was 
falling through something icy-cold and black; it was 
like being sucked into a dark whirlpool — 

And suddenly, Harry found himself sitting on a bench 
at the end of the room inside the basin, a bench 
raised high above the others. He looked up at the 
high stone ceiling, expecting to see the circular 
window through which he had just been staring, but 
there was nothing there but dark, solid stone. 

Breathing hard and fast, Harry looked around him. 
Not one of the witches and wizards in the room (and 
there were at least two hundred of them) was looking 
at him. Not one of them seemed to have noticed that a 
fourteen-year- old boy had just dropped from the 
ceiling into their midst. Harry turned to the wizard 
next to him on the bench and uttered a loud cry of 
surprise that reverberated around the silent room. 

He was sitting right next to Albus Dumbledore. 



Page | 647 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor!” Harry said in a kind of strangled whisper. 
“I’m sorry — I didn’t mean to — I was just looking at 
that basin in your cabinet — I — where are we?” 

But Dumbledore didn’t move or speak. He ignored 
Harry completely. Like every other wizard on the 
benches, he was staring into the far corner of the 
room, where there was a door. 

Harry gazed, nonplussed, at Dumbledore, then 
around at the silently watchful crowd, then back at 
Dumbledore. And then it dawned on him. ... 

Once before, Harry had found himself somewhere that 
nobody could see or hear him. That time, he had 
fallen through a page in an enchanted diary, right 
into somebody else’s memory ... and unless he was 
very much mistaken, something of the sort had 
happened again. ... 

Harry raised his right hand, hesitated, and then 
waved it energetically in front of Dumbledore ’s face. 
Dumbledore did not blink, look around at Harry, or 
indeed move at all. And that, in Harry’s opinion, 
settled the matter. Dumbledore wouldn’t ignore him 
like that. He was inside a memory, and this was not 
the present-day Dumbledore. Yet it couldn’t be that 
long ago . . . the Dumbledore sitting next to him now 
was silver-haired, just like the present-day 
Dumbledore. But what was this place? What were all 
these wizards waiting for? 

Harry looked around more carefully. The room, as he 
had suspected when observing it from above, was 
almost certainly underground — more of a dungeon 
than a room, he thought. There was a bleak and 
forbidding air about the place; there were no pictures 
