team wouldn’t speak to Harry during practice, and if 
they had to speak about him, they called him “the 
Seeker.” 

Hermione and Neville were suffering, too. They didn’t 
have as bad a time as Harry, because they weren’t as 

Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




well-known, but nobody would speak to them, either. 
Hermione had stopped drawing attention to herself in 
class, keeping her head down and working in silence. 

Harry was almost glad that the exams weren’t far 
away. All the studying he had to do kept his mind off 
his misery. He, Ron, and Hermione kept to 
themselves, working late into the night, trying to 
remember the ingredients in complicated potions, 
learn charms and spells by heart, memorize the dates 
of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions. ... 

Then, about a week before the exams were due to 
start, Harry’s new resolution not to interfere in 
anything that didn’t concern him was put to an 
unexpected test. Walking back from the library on his 
own one afternoon, he heard somebody whimpering 
from a classroom up ahead. As he drew closer, he 
heard Quirrell’s voice. 

“No — no — not again, please — ” 

It sounded as though someone was threatening him. 
Harry moved closer. 

“All right — all right — ” he heard Quirrell sob. 

Next second, Quirrell came hurrying out of the 
classroom straightening his turban. He was pale and 
looked as though he was about to cry. He strode out 
of sight; Harry didn’t think Quirrell had even noticed 
him. He waited until Quirrell’s footsteps had 
disappeared, then peered into the classroom. It was 
empty, but a door stood ajar at the other end. Harry 
was halfway toward it before he remembered what 
he’d promised himself about not meddling. 

All the same, he’d have gambled twelve Sorcerer’s 
Stones that Snape had just left the room, and from 

Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




what Harry had just heard, Snape would be walking 
with a new spring in his step — Quirrell seemed to 
have given in at last. 

Harry went back to the library, where Hermione was 
testing Ron on Astronomy. Harry told them what he’d 
heard. 

“Snape’s done it, then!” said Ron. “If Quirrell’s told 
him how to break his Anti-Dark Force spell — ” 

“There’s still Fluffy, though,” said Hermione. 

“Maybe Snape’s found out how to get past him 
without asking Hagrid,” said Ron, looking up at the 
thousands of books surrounding them. “I bet there’s a 
book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a 
giant three-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?” 

The light of adventure was kindling again in Ron’s 
eyes, but Hermione answered before Harry could. 

“Go to Dumbledore. That’s what we should have done 
ages ago. If we try anything ourselves we’ll be thrown 
out for sure.” 

“But we’ve got no proof.” said Harry. “Quirrell’s too 
scared to back us up. Snape’s only got to say he 
doesn’t know how the troll got in at Halloween and 
that he was nowhere near the third floor — who do 
you think they’ll believe, him or us? It’s not exactly a 
secret we hate him, Dumbledore ’ll think we made it 
up to get him sacked. Filch wouldn’t help us if his life 
depended on it, he’s too friendly with Snape, and the 
more students get thrown out, the better, he’ll think. 
And don’t forget, we’re not supposed to know about 
the Stone or Fluffy. That’ll take a lot of explaining.” 

Hermione looked convinced, but Ron didn’t. 

Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“If we just do a bit of poking around — ” 



“No,” said Harry flatly, “we’ve done enough poking 
around.” 

He pulled a map of Jupiter toward him and started to 
learn the names of its moons. 

The following morning, notes were delivered to Harry, 
Hermione, and Neville at the breakfast table. They 
were all the same: 

Your detention will take place at eleven o’clock 
tonight. 

Meet Mr. Filch in the entrance hall. 

Professor M. McGonagall 

Harry had forgotten they still had detentions to do in 
the furor over the points they’d lost. He half expected 
Hermione to complain that this was a whole night of 
studying lost, but she didn’t say a word. Like Harry, 
she felt they deserved what they’d got. 

At eleven o’clock that night, they said good-bye to Ron 
in the common room and went down to the entrance 
hall with Neville. Filch was already there — and so 
was Malfoy. Harry had also forgotten that Malfoy had 
gotten a detention, too. 

“Follow me,” said Filch, lighting a lamp and leading 
them outside. 

“I bet you’ll think twice about breaking a school rule 
again, won’t you, eh?” he said, leering at them. “Oh 
yes . . . hard work and pain are the best teachers if you 
ask me. ... It’s just a pity they let the old 
punishments die out . . . hang you by your wrists from 
Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




the ceiling for a few days, I’ve got the chains still in 
my office, keep ’em well oiled in case they’re ever 
needed. ... Right, off we go, and don’t think of running 
off, now, it’ll be worse for you if you do.” 

They marched off across the dark grounds. Neville 
kept sniffing. Harry wondered what their punishment 
was going to be. It must be something really horrible, 
or Filch wouldn’t be sounding so delighted. 

The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across it 
kept throwing them into darkness. Ahead, Harry 
could see the lighted windows of Hagrid’s hut. Then 
they heard a distant shout. 

“Is that you, Filch? Hurry up, I want ter get started.” 

Harry’s heart rose; if they were going to be working 
with Hagrid it wouldn’t be so bad. His relief must 
have showed in his face, because Filch said, “I 
suppose you think you’ll be enjoying yourself with 
that oaf? Well, think again, boy — it’s into the forest 
you’re going and I’m much mistaken if you’ll all come 
out in one piece.” 

At this, Neville let out a little moan, and Malfoy 
stopped dead in his tracks. 

“The forest?” he repeated, and he didn’t sound quite 
as cool as usual. “We can’t go in there at night — 
there’s all sorts of things in there — werewolves, I 
heard.” 

Neville clutched the sleeve of Harry’s robe and made a 
choking noise. 

“That’s your problem, isn’t it?” said Filch, his voice 
cracking with glee. “Should’ve thought of them 
werewolves before you got in trouble, shouldn’t you?” 

Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid came striding toward them out of the dark, 
Fang at his heel. He was carrying his large crossbow, 
and a quiver of arrows hung over his shoulder. 

“Abou’ time,” he said. “I bin waitin’ fer half an hour 
already. All right, Harry, Hermione?” 

“I shouldn’t be too friendly to them, Hagrid,” said 
Filch coldly, “they’re here to be punished, after all.” 

“That’s why yer late, is it?” said Hagrid, frowning at 
Filch. “Bin lecturin’ them, eh? ’Snot your place ter do 
that. Yeh’ve done yer bit, I’ll take over from here.” 

“I’ll be back at dawn,” said Filch, “for what’s left of 
them,” he added nastily, and he turned and started 
back toward the castle, his lamp bobbing away in the 
darkness. 

Malfoy now turned to Hagrid. 

“I’m not going in that forest,” he said, and Harry was 
pleased to hear the note of panic in his voice. 

“Yeh are if yeh want ter stay at Hogwarts,” said 
Hagrid fiercely. “Yeh’ve done wrong an’ now yeh’ve got 
ter pay fer it.” 

“But this is servant stuff, it’s not for students to do. I 
thought we’d be copying lines or something, if my 
father knew I was doing this, he’d — ” 

“ — tell yer that’s how it is at Hogwarts,” Hagrid 
growled. “Copyin’ lines! What good’s that ter anyone? 
Yeh’ll do summat useful or yeh’ll get out. If yeh think 
yer father’d rather you were expelled, then get back 
off ter the castle an’ pack. Go on!” 



Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy didn’t move. He looked at Hagrid furiously, but 
then dropped his gaze. 

“Right then,” said Hagrid, “now, listen carefully, 

’cause it’s dangerous what we’re gonna do tonight, an’ 
I don’ want no one takin’ risks. Follow me over here a 
moment.” 

He led them to the very edge of the forest. Holding his 
lamp up high, he pointed down a narrow, winding 
earth track that disappeared into the thick black 
trees. A light breeze lifted their hair as they looked 
into the forest. 

“Look there,” said Hagrid, “see that stuff shinin’ on 
the ground? Silvery stuff? That’s unicorn blood. 
There’s a unicorn in there bin hurt badly by summat. 
This is the second time in a week. I found one dead 
last Wednesday. We’re gonna try an’ find the poor 
thing. We might have ter put it out of its misery.” 

“And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us 
first?” said Malfoy, unable to keep the fear out of his 
voice. 

“There’s nothin’ that lives in the forest that’ll hurt yeh 
if yer with me or Fang,” said Hagrid. “An’ keep ter the 
path. Right, now, we’re gonna split inter two parties 
an’ follow the trail in diff’rent directions. There’s blood 
all over the place, it must’ve bin staggerin’ around 
since last night at least.” 

“I want Fang,” said Malfoy quickly, looking at Fang’s 
long teeth. 

“All right, but I warn yeh, he’s a coward,” said Hagrid. 
“So me, Harry, an’ Hermione’ll go one way an’ Draco, 
Neville, an’ Fang’ll go the other. Now, if any of us 
finds the unicorn, we’ll send up green sparks, right? 

Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Get yer wands out an’ practice now — that’s it — an’ 
if anyone gets in trouble, send up red sparks, an’ we’ll 
all come an’ find yeh — so, be careful — let’s go.” 

The forest was black and silent. A little way into it 
they reached a fork in the earth path, and Harry, 
Hermione, and Hagrid took the left path while Malfoy, 
Neville, and Fang took the right. 

They walked in silence, their eyes on the ground. 
Every now and then a ray of moonlight through the 
branches above lit a spot of silver-blue blood on the 
fallen leaves. 

Harry saw that Hagrid looked very worried. 

“ Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?” Harry 
asked. 

“Not fast enough,” said Hagrid. “It’s not easy ter catch 
a unicorn, they’re powerful magic creatures. I never 
knew one ter be hurt before.” 

They walked past a mossy tree stump. Harry could 
hear running water; there must be a stream 
somewhere close by. There were still spots of unicorn 
blood here and there along the winding path. 

“You all right, Hermione?” Hagrid whispered. “Don’ 
worry, it can’t’ve gone far if it’s this badly hurt, an’ 
then well be able ter — GET BEHIND THAT TREE!” 

Hagrid seized Harry and Hermione and hoisted them 
off the path behind a towering oak. He pulled out an 
arrow and fitted it into his crossbow, raising it, ready 
to fire. The three of them listened. Something was 
slithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a 
cloak trailing along the ground. Hagrid was squinting 



Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




up the dark path, but after a few seconds, the sound 
faded away. 

“I knew it,” he murmured. “There’s summat in here 
that shouldn’ be.” 

“A werewolf?” Harry suggested. 

“That wasn’ no werewolf an’ it wasn’ no unicorn, 
neither,” said Hagrid grimly. “Right, follow me, but 
careful, now.” 

They walked more slowly, ears straining for the 
faintest sound. Suddenly, in a clearing ahead, 
something definitely moved. 

“Who’s there?” Hagrid called. “Show yerself — I’m 
armed!” 

And into the clearing came — was it a man, or a 
horse? To the waist, a man, with red hair and beard, 
but below that was a horse’s gleaming chestnut body 
with a long, reddish tail. Harry and Hermione’s jaws 
dropped. 

“Oh, it’s you, Ronan,” said Hagrid in relief. “How are 
yeh?” 

He walked forward and shook the centaur’s hand. 

“Good evening to you, Hagrid,” said Ronan. He had a 
deep, sorrowful voice. “Were you going to shoot me?” 

“Can’t be too careful, Ronan,” said Hagrid, patting his 
crossbow. “There’s summat bad loose in this forest. 
This is Harry Potter an’ Hermione Granger, by the 
way. Students up at the school. An’ this is Ronan, 
you two. He’s a centaur.” 



Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“We’d noticed,” said Hermione faintly. 



“Good evening,” said Ronan. “Students, are you? And 
do you learn much, up at the school?” 

“Erm — ” 

“A bit,” said Hermione timidly. 

“A bit. Well, that’s something.” Ronan sighed. He 
flung back his head and stared at the sky. “Mars is 
bright tonight.” 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, glancing up, too. “Listen, I’m glad 
we’ve run inter yeh, Ronan, ’cause there’s a unicorn 
bin hurt — you seen anythin’?” 

Ronan didn’t answer immediately. He stared 
unblinkingly upward, then sighed again. 

“Always the innocent are the first victims,” he said. 

“So it has been for ages past, so it is now.” 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, “but have yeh seen anythin’, 
Ronan? Anythin’ unusual?” 

“Mars is bright tonight,” Ronan repeated, while 
Hagrid watched him impatiently. “Unusually bright.” 

“Yeah, but I was meanin’ anythin’ unusual a bit 
nearer home,” said Hagrid. “So yeh haven’t noticed 
anythin’ strange?” 

Yet again, Ronan took a while to answer. At last, he 
said, “The forest hides many secrets.” 

A movement in the trees behind Ronan made Hagrid 
raise his bow again, but it was only a second centaur, 

Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




black-haired and -bodied and wilder-looking than 
Ronan. 



“Hullo, Bane,” said Hagrid. “All right?” 

“Good evening, Hagrid, I hope you are well?” 

“Well enough. Look, I’ve jus’ bin askin’ Ronan, you 
seen anythin’ odd in here lately? There’s a unicorn 
bin injured — would yeh know anythin’ about it?” 

Bane walked over to stand next to Ronan. He looked 
skyward. 

“Mars is bright tonight,” he said simply. 

“We’ve heard,” said Hagrid grumpily. “Well, if either of 
you do see anythin’, let me know, won’t yeh? We’ll be 
off, then.” 

Harry and Hermione followed him out of the clearing, 
staring over their shoulders at Ronan and Bane until 
the trees blocked their view. 

“Never,” said Hagrid irritably, “try an’ get a straight 
answer out of a centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not 
interested in anythin’ closer’n the moon.” 

“Are there many of them in here?” asked Hermione. 

“Oh, a fair few. . . . Keep themselves to themselves 
mostly, but they’re good enough about turnin’ up if 
ever I want a word. They’re deep, mind, centaurs ... 
they know things ... jus’ don’ let on much.” 

“D’you think that was a centaur we heard earlier?” 
said Harry. 



Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask 
me, that was what’s bin killin’ the unicorns — never 
heard anythin’ like it before.” 

They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Harry 
kept looking nervously over his shoulder. He had the 
nasty feeling they were being watched. He was very 
glad they had Hagrid and his crossbow with them. 
They had just passed a bend in the path when 
Hermione grabbed Hagrid ’s arm. 

“Hagrid! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!” 

“You two wait here!” Hagrid shouted. “Stay on the 
path, I’ll come back for yeh!” 

They heard him crashing away through the 
undergrowth and stood looking at each other, very 
scared, until they couldn’t hear anything but the 
rustling of leaves around them. 

“You don’t think they’ve been hurt, do you?” 
whispered Hermione. 

“I don’t care if Malfoy has, but if something’s got 
Neville ... it’s our fault he’s here in the first place.” 

The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper 
than usual. Harry’s seemed to be picking up every 
sigh of the wind, every cracking twig. What was going 
on? Where were the others? 

At last, a great crunching noise announced Hagrid’s 
return. Malfoy, Neville, and Fang were with him. 
Hagrid was fuming. Malfoy, it seemed, had sneaked 
up behind Neville and grabbed him as a joke. Neville 
had panicked and sent up the sparks. 



Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Well be lucky ter catch anythin’ now, with the racket 
you two were makin’. Right, we’re changin’ groups — 
Neville, you stay with me an’ Hermione, Harry, you go 
with Fang an’ this idiot. I’m sorry,” Hagrid added in a 
whisper to Harry, “but he’ll have a harder time 
frightenin’ you, an’ we’ve gotta get this done.” 

So Harry set off into the heart of the forest with 
Malfoy and Fang. They walked for nearly half an 
hour, deeper and deeper into the forest, until the path 
became almost impossible to follow because the trees 
were so thick. Harry thought the blood seemed to be 
getting thicker. There were splashes on the roots of a 
tree, as though the poor creature had been thrashing 
around in pain close by. Harry could see a clearing 
ahead, through the tangled branches of an ancient 
oak. 

“Look — ” he murmured, holding out his arm to stop 
Malfoy. 

Something bright white was gleaming on the ground. 
They inched closer. 

It was the unicorn all right, and it was dead. Harry 
had never seen anything so beautiful and sad. Its 
long, slender legs were stuck out at odd angles where 
it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on 
the dark leaves. 

Harry had taken one step toward it when a slithering 
sound made him freeze where he stood. A bush on 
the edge of the clearing quivered. ... Then, out of the 
shadows, a hooded figure came crawling across the 
ground like some stalking beast. Harry, Malfoy, and 
Fang stood transfixed. The cloaked figure reached the 
unicorn, lowered its head over the wound in the 
animals side, and began to drink its blood. 



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“AAAAAAAAAAARGH ! ” 



Malfoy let out a terrible scream and bolted — so did 
Fang. The hooded figure raised its head and looked 
right at Harry — unicorn blood was dribbling down its 
front. It got to its feet and came swiftly toward Harry 
— he couldn’t move for fear. 

Then a pain like he’d never felt before pierced his 
head; it was as though his scar were on fire. Half 
blinded, he staggered backward. He heard hooves 
behind him, galloping, and something jumped clean 
over Harry, charging at the figure. 

The pain in Harry’s head was so bad he fell to his 
knees. It took a minute or two to pass. When he 
looked up, the figure had gone. A centaur was 
standing over him, not Ronan or Bane; this one 
looked younger; he had white-blond hair and a 
palomino body. 

“Are you all right?” said the centaur, pulling Harry to 
his feet. 

“Yes — thank you — what was that?” 

The centaur didn’t answer. He had astonishingly blue 
eyes, like pale sapphires. He looked carefully at 
Harry, his eyes lingering on the scar that stood out, 
livid, on Harry’s forehead. 

“You are the Potter boy,” he said. “You had better get 
back to Hagrid. The forest is not safe at this time — 
especially for you. Can you ride? It will be quicker 
this way. 

“My name is Firenze,” he added, as he lowered 
himself on to his front legs so that Harry could 
clamber onto his back. 

Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from 
the other side of the clearing. Ronan and Bane came 
bursting through the trees, their flanks heaving and 
sweaty. 

“Firenze!” Bane thundered. “What are you doing? You 
have a human on your back! Have you no shame? Are 
you a common mule?” 

“Do you realize who this is?” said Firenze. “This is the 
Potter boy. The quicker he leaves this forest, the 
better.” 

“What have you been telling him?” growled Bane. 
“Remember, Firenze, we are sworn not to set 
ourselves against the heavens. Have we not read what 
is to come in the movements of the planets?” 

Ronan pawed the ground nervously. “I’m sure Firenze 
thought he was acting for the best,” he said in his 
gloomy voice. 

Bane kicked his back legs in anger. 

“For the best! What is that to do with us? Centaurs 
are concerned with what has been foretold! It is not 
our business to run around like donkeys after stray 
humans in our forest!” 

Firenze suddenly reared on to his hind legs in anger, 
so that Harry had to grab his shoulders to stay on. 

“Do you not see that unicorn?” Firenze bellowed at 
Bane. “Do you not understand why it was killed? Or 
have the planets not let you in on that secret? I set 
myself against what is lurking in this forest, Bane, 
yes, with humans alongside me if I must.” 



Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




And Firenze whisked around; with Harry clutching on 
as best he could, they plunged off into the trees, 
leaving Ronan and Bane behind them. 

Harry didn’t have a clue what was going on. 

“Why’s Bane so angry?” he asked. “What was that 
thing you saved me from, anyway?” 

Firenze slowed to a walk, warned Harry to keep his 
head bowed in case of low-hanging branches, but did 
not answer Harry’s question. They made their way 
through the trees in silence for so long that Harry 
thought Firenze didn’t want to talk to him anymore. 
They were passing through a particularly dense patch 
of trees, however, when Firenze suddenly stopped. 

“Harry Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is 
used for?” 

“No,” said Harry, startled by the odd question. “We’ve 
only used the horn and tail hair in Potions.” 

“That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a 
unicorn,” said Firenze. “Only one who has nothing to 
lose, and everything to gain, would commit such a 
crime. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive, even 
if you are an inch from death, but at a terrible price. 
You have slain something pure and defenseless to 
save yourself, and you will have but a half-life, a 
cursed life, from the moment the blood touches your 
lips.” 

Harry stared at the back of Firenze’s head, which was 
dappled silver in the moonlight. 

“But who’d be that desperate?” he wondered aloud. “If 
you’re going to be cursed forever, death’s better, isn’t 
it?” 

Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“It is,” Firenze agreed, “unless all you need is to stay 
alive long enough to drink something else — 
something that will bring you back to full strength 
and power — something that will mean you can never 
die. Mr. Potter, do you know what is hidden in the 
school at this very moment?” 

“The Sorcerer’s Stone! Of course — the Elixir of Life! 
But I don’t understand who — ” 

“Can you think of nobody who has waited many years 
to return to power, who has clung to life, awaiting 
their chance?” 

It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly 
around Harry’s heart. Over the rustling of the trees, 
he seemed to hear once more what Hagrid had told 
him on the night they had met: “Some say he died. 
Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough 
human left in him to die.” 

“Do you mean,” Harry croaked, “that was VoZ — ” 

“Harry! Harry, are you all right?” 

Hermione was running toward them down the path, 
Hagrid puffing along behind her. 

“I’m fine,” said Harry, hardly knowing what he was 
saying. “The unicorn’s dead, Hagrid, it’s in that 
clearing back there.” 

“This is where I leave you,” Firenze murmured as 
Hagrid hurried off to examine the unicorn. “You are 
safe now.” 

Harry slid off his back. 



Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Good luck, Harry Potter,” said Firenze. “The planets 
have been read wrongly before now, even by centaurs. 
I hope this is one of those times.” 

He turned and cantered back into the depths of the 
forest, leaving Harry shivering behind him. 

Ron had fallen asleep in the dark common room, 
waiting for them to return. He shouted something 
about Quidditch fouls when Harry roughly shook him 
awake. In a matter of seconds, though, he was wide- 
eyed as Harry began to tell him and Hermione what 
had happened in the forest. 

Harry couldn’t sit down. He paced up and down in 
front of the fire. He was still shaking. 

“Snape wants the Stone for Voldemort ... and 
Voldemort’s waiting in the forest ... and all this time 
we thought Snape just wanted to get rich. ...” 

“Stop saying the name!” said Ron in a terrified 
whisper, as if he thought Voldemort could hear them. 

Harry wasn’t listening. 

“Firenze saved me, but he shouldn’t have done so. ... 
Bane was furious ... he was talking about interfering 
with what the planets say is going to happen. ... They 
must show that Voldemort’s coming back. ... Bane 
thinks Firenze should have let Voldemort kill me. ... I 
suppose that’s written in the stars as well.” 

“Will you stop saying the name\” Ron hissed. 

“So all I’ve got to wait for now is Snape to steal the 
Stone,” Harry went on feverishly, “then Voldemort will 
be able to come and finish me off. ... Well, I suppose 
Bane 11 be happy.” 

Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione looked very frightened, but she had a word 
of comfort. 

“Harry, everyone says Dumbledore’s the only one 
You-Know-Who was ever afraid of. With Dumbledore 
around, You-Know-Who won’t touch you. Anyway, 
who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like 
fortune-telling to me, and Professor McGonagall says 
that’s a very imprecise branch of magic.” 

The sky had turned light before they stopped talking. 
They went to bed exhausted, their throats sore. But 
the night’s surprises weren’t over. 

When Harry pulled back his sheets, he found his 
Invisibility Cloak folded neatly underneath them. 
There was a note pinned to it: 

Just in case. 



Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 






THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR 

In years to come, Harry would never quite remember 
how he had managed to get through his exams when 
he half expected Voldemort to come bursting through 
the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and 
there could be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and 
well behind the locked door. 

It was sweltering hot, especially in the large 
classroom where they did their written papers. They 
had been given special, new quills for the exams, 
which had been bewitched with an Anti-Cheating 
spell. 

They had practical exams as well. Professor Flitwick 
called them one by one into his class to see if they 
could make a pineapple tap-dance across a desk. 
Professor McGonagall watched them turn a mouse 
into a snuffbox — points were given for how pretty the 
snuffbox was, but taken away if it had whiskers. 
Snape made them all nervous, breathing down their 
necks while they tried to remember how to make a 
Forgetfulness potion. 

Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



Harry did the best he could, trying to ignore the 
stabbing pains in his forehead, which had been 
bothering him ever since his trip into the forest. 
Neville thought Harry had a bad case of exam nerves 
because Harry couldn’t sleep, but the truth was that 
Harry kept being woken by his old nightmare, except 
that it was now worse than ever because there was a 
hooded figure dripping blood in it. 

Maybe it was because they hadn’t seen what Harry 
had seen in the forest, or because they didn’t have 
scars burning on their foreheads, but Ron and 
Hermione didn’t seem as worried about the Stone as 
Harry. The idea of Voldemort certainly scared them, 
but he didn’t keep visiting them in dreams, and they 
were so busy with their studying they didn’t have 
much time to fret about what Snape or anyone else 
might be up to. 

Their very last exam was History of Magic. One hour 
of answering questions about batty old wizards who’d 
invented self-stirring cauldrons and they’d be free, 
free for a whole wonderful week until their exam 
results came out. When the ghost of Professor Binns 
told them to put down their quills and roll up their 
parchment, Harry couldn’t help cheering with the 
rest. 

“That was far easier than I thought it would be,” said 
Hermione as they joined the crowds flocking out onto 
the sunny grounds. “I needn’t have learned about the 
1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of 
Elfric the Eager.” 

Hermione always liked to go through their exam 
papers afterward, but Ron said this made him feel ill, 
so they wandered down to the lake and flopped under 
a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were 



Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




tickling the tentacles of a giant squid, which was 
basking in the warm shallows. 



“No more studying,” Ron sighed happily, stretching 
out on the grass. “You could look more cheerful, 

Harry, we’ve got a week before we find out how badly 
we’ve done, there’s no need to worry yet.” 

Harry was rubbing his forehead. 

“I wish I knew what this means\” he burst out angrily. 
“My scar keeps hurting — it’s happened before, but 
never as often as this.” 

“Go to Madam Pomfrey,” Hermione suggested. 

“I’m not ill,” said Harry. “I think it’s a warning ... it 
means danger’s coming. ...” 

Ron couldn’t get worked up, it was too hot. 

“Harry, relax, Hermione ’s right, the Stone’s safe as 
long as Dumbledore’s around. Anyway, we’ve never 
had any proof Snape found out how to get past Fluffy. 
He nearly had his leg ripped off once, he’s not going to 
try it again in a hurry. And Neville will play Quidditch 
for England before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down.” 

Harry nodded, but he couldn’t shake off a lurking 
feeling that there was something he’d forgotten to do, 
something important. When he tried to explain this, 
Hermione said, “That’s just the exams. I woke up last 
night and was halfway through my Transfiguration 
notes before I remembered we’d done that one.” 

Harry was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn’t have 
anything to do with work, though. He watched an owl 
flutter toward the school across the bright blue sky, a 
note clamped in its mouth. Hagrid was the only one 

Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




who ever sent him letters. Hagrid would never betray 
Dumbledore. Hagrid would never tell anyone how to 
get past Fluffy . . . never . . . but — 

Harry suddenly jumped to his feet. 

“Where ’re you going?” said Ron sleepily. 

“I’ve just thought of something,” said Harry. He had 
turned white. “We’ve got to go and see Hagrid, now.” 

“Why?” panted Hermione, hurrying to keep up. 

“Don’t you think it’s a bit odd,” said Harry, 
scrambling up the grassy slope, “that what Hagrid 
wants more than anything else is a dragon, and a 
stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in 
his pocket? How many people wander around with 
dragon eggs if it’s against wizard law? Lucky they 
found Hagrid, don’t you think? Why didn’t I see it 
before?” 

“What are you talking about?” said Ron, but Harry, 
sprinting across the grounds toward the forest, didn’t 
answer. 

Hagrid was sitting in an armchair outside his house; 
his trousers and sleeves were rolled up, and he was 
shelling peas into a large bowl. 

“Hullo,” he said, smiling. “Finished yer exams? Got 
time fer a drink?” 

“Yes, please,” said Ron, but Harry cut him off. 

“No, we’re in a hurry. Hagrid, I’ve got to ask you 
something. You know that night you won Norbert? 
What did the stranger you were playing cards with 
look like?” 

Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Dunno said Hagrid casually, “he wouldn’ take his 
cloak off.” 



He saw the three of them look stunned and raised his 
eyebrows. 

“It’s not that unusual, yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in 
the Hog’s Head — that’s one o’ the pubs down in the 
village. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn’ he? I 
never saw his face, he kept his hood up.” 

Harry sank down next to the bowl of peas. 

