Harry knew at once from the look on the face of the 
gray centaur holding Hermione that she had made a 
terrible mistake in saying this. The gray centaur 
threw back his head, his back legs stamping 
furiously, and bellowed, “You see, Ronan? They 
already have the arrogance of their kind! So we were 
to do your dirty work, were we, human girl? We were 
to act as your servants, drive away your enemies like 
obedient hounds?” 

“No!” said Hermione in a horrorstruck squeak. “Please 
— I didn’t mean that! I just hoped you’d be able to — 
to help us — ” 

But she seemed to be going from bad to worse. 

“We do not help humans!” snarled the centaur 
holding Harry, tightening his grip and rearing a little 
at the same time, so that Harry’s feet left the ground 
momentarily. “We are a race apart and proud to be 
so... We will not permit you to walk from here, 
boasting that we did your bidding!” 

“We’re not going to say anything like that!” Harry 
shouted. “We know you didn’t do anything because 
we wanted you to — ” 

But nobody seemed to be listening to him. A bearded 
centaur toward the back of the crowd shouted, “They 
came here unasked, they must pay the 
consequences!” 

A roar of approval met these words and a dun-colored 
centaur shouted, “They can join the woman!” 

“You said you didn’t hurt the innocent!” shouted 
Hermione, real tears sliding down her face now. “We 
haven’t done anything to hurt you, we haven’t used 



Page | 965Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wands or threats, we just want to go back to school, 
please let us go back — ” 

“We are not all like the traitor Firenze, human girl!” 
shouted the gray centaur, to more neighing roars of 
approval from his fellows. “Perhaps you thought us 
pretty talking horses? We are an ancient people who 
will not stand wizard invasions and insults! We do not 
recognize your laws, we do not acknowledge your 
superiority, we are — ” 

But they did not hear what else centaurs were, for at 
that moment there came a crashing noise on the edge 
of the clearing so loud that all of them — Harry, 
Hermione, and the fifty or so centaurs filling the 
clearing — looked around. Harry’s centaur let him fall 
to the ground again as his hands flew to his bow and 
quiver of arrows; Hermione had been dropped too, 
and Harry hurried toward her as two thick tree 
trunks parted ominously and the monstrous form of 
Grawp the giant appeared in the gap. 

The centaurs nearest him backed into those behind. 
The clearing was now a forest of bows and arrows 
waiting to be fired, all pointing upward at the 
enormous grayish face now looming over them from 
just beneath the thick canopy of branches. Grawp ’s 
lopsided mouth was gaping stupidly. They could see 
his bricklike yellow teeth glimmering in the half-light, 
his dull sludge-colored eyes narrowed as he squinted 
down at the creatures at his feet. Broken ropes trailed 
from both ankles. 

He opened his mouth even wider. 

“Hagger.” 

Harry did not know what “hagger” meant, or what 
language it was from, nor did he much care — he was 

Page | 966Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




watching Grawp ’s feet, which were almost as long as 
Harry’s whole body. Hermione gripped his arm tightly; 
the centaurs were quite silent, staring up at the giant, 
whose huge, round head moved from side to side as 
he continued to peer amongst them as though looking 
for something he had dropped. 

“Haggeii” he said again, more insistently. 

“Get away from here, giant!” called Magorian. “You 
are not welcome among us!” 

These words seemed to make no impression 
whatsoever on Grawp. He stooped a little (the 
centaurs’ arms tensed on their bows) and then 
bellowed, “HAGGER!” 

A few of the centaurs looked worried now. Hermione, 
however, gave a gasp. 

“Harry!” she whispered. “I think he’s trying to say 
‘Hagrid’!” 



At this precise moment Grawp caught sight of them, 
the only two humans in a sea of centaurs. He lowered 
his head another foot or so, staring intently at them. 
Harry could feel Hermione shaking as Grawp opened 
his mouth wide again and said, in a deep, rumbling 
voice, “Hermy.” 

“Goodness,” said Hermione, gripping Harry’s arm so 
tightly it was growing numb and looking as though 
she was about to faint, “he — he remembered!” 

“HERMY!” roared Grawp. “WHERE HAGGER?” 

“I don’t know!” squealed Hermione, terrified. “I’m 
sorry, Grawp, I don’t know!” 



Page | 967Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“GRAWP WANT HAGGER!” 



One of the giant’s massive hands swooped down upon 
them — Hermione let out a real scream, ran a few 
steps backward and fell over. Wandless, Harry braced 
himself to punch, kick, bite, or whatever else it took 
as the hand flew toward him and knocked a snow- 
white centaur off his legs. 

It was what the centaurs had been waiting for — 
Grawp’s outstretched fingers were a foot from Harry 
when fifty arrows went soaring through the air at the 
giant, peppering his enormous face, causing him to 
howl with pain and rage and straighten up again, 
rubbing his face with his enormous hands, breaking 
off the arrow shafts but forcing the heads in still 
deeper. 

He yelled and stamped his enormous feet and the 
centaurs scattered out of the way. Pebble-sized 
droplets of Grawp’s blood showered Harry as he 
pulled Hermione to her feet and the pair of them ran 
as fast as they could for the shelter of the trees. Once 
there they looked back — Grawp was snatching 
blindly at the centaurs as blood ran all down his face; 
they were retreating in disorder, galloping away 
through the trees on the other side of the clearing. As 
Harry and Hermione watched, Grawp gave another 
roar of fury and plunged after them, smashing more 
trees aside as he went. 

“Oh no,” said Hermione, quaking so badly that her 
knees gave way. “Oh, that was horrible. And he might 
kill them all...” 

“I’m not that fussed, to be honest,” said Harry 
bitterly. 



Page | 968Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The sounds of the galloping centaurs and the 
blundering giant were growing fainter and fainter. As 
Harry listened to them his scar gave another great 
throb and a wave of terror swept over him. 

They had wasted so much time — they were even 
further from rescuing Sirius than they had been when 
he had had the vision. Not only had Harry managed 
to lose his wand but they were stuck in the middle of 
the Forbidden Forest with no means of transport 
whatsoever. 

“Smart plan,” he spat at Hermione, keen to release 
some of his fury. “Really smart plan. Where do we go 
from here?” 

“We need to get back up to the castle,” said Hermione 
faintly. 

“By the time we’ve done that, Sirius 11 probably be 
dead!” said Harry, kicking a nearby tree in temper; 
there was a high-pitched chattering overhead and he 
looked up to see an angry bowtruckle flexing its long 
twiglike fingers at him. 

“Well, we can’t do anything without wands,” said 
Hermione hopelessly, dragging herself up again. 
“Anyway, Harry, how exactly were you planning to get 
all the way to London?” 

“Yeah, we were just wondering that,” said a familiar 
voice from behind her. 

Harry and Hermione moved instinctively together, 
peering through the trees, as Ron came into sight, 
with Ginny, Neville, and Luna hurrying along behind 
him. All of them looked a little the worse for wear — 
there were several long scratches running the length 
of Ginny’s cheek, a large purple lump was swelling 
Page | 969Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




above Neville’s right eye, Ron’s lip was bleeding worse 
than ever — but all were looking rather pleased with 
themselves. 

“So,” said Ron, pushing aside a low-hanging branch 
and holding out Harry’s wand, “had any ideas?” 

“How did you get away?” asked Harry in amazement, 
taking his wand from Ron. 

“Couple of Stunners, a Disarming Charm, Neville 
brought off a really nice little Impediment Jinx,” said 
Ron airily, now handing back Hermione’s wand too. 
“But Ginny was best, she got Malfoy — Bat-Bogey Hex 
— it was superb, his whole face was covered in the 
great flapping things. Anyway, we saw you heading 
into the forest out of the window and followed. 

What’ve you done with Umbridge?” 

“She got carried away,” said Harry. “By a herd of 
centaurs.” 

“And they left you behind?” asked Ginny, looking 
astonished. 

“No, they got chased off by Grawp,” said Harry. 

“Who’s Grawp?” Luna asked interestedly. 

“Hagrid’s little brother,” said Ron promptly. “Anyway, 
never mind that now. Harry, what did you find out in 
the fire? Has You-Know-Who got Sirius or — ?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, as his scar gave another painful 
prickle, “and I’m sure Sirius is still alive, but I can’t 
see how we’re going to get there to help him.” 

They all fell silent, looking rather scared. The problem 
facing them seemed insurmountable. 

Page | 970Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, we’ll have to fly, won’t we?” said Luna in the 
closest thing to a matter-of-fact voice Harry had ever 
heard her use. 



“Okay,” said Harry irritably, rounding on her, “first of 
all, “we’ aren’t doing anything if you’re including 
yourself in that, and second of all, Ron’s the only one 
with a broomstick that isn’t being guarded by a 
security troll, so — ” 

“I’ve got a broom!” said Ginny. 

“Yeah, but you’re not coming,” said Ron angrily. 

“Excuse me, but I care what happens to Sirius as 
much as you do!” said Ginny, her jaw set so that her 
resemblance to Fred and George was suddenly 
striking. 

“You’re too — ” Harry began. 

“I’m three years older than you were when you fought 
You-Know-Who over the Sorcerer’s Stone,” she said 
fiercely, “and it’s because of me Malfoy’s stuck back 
in Umbridge’s office with giant flying bogeys attacking 
him — ” 



“Yeah, but — ” 

“We were all in the D.A. together,” said Neville quietly. 
“It was all supposed to be about fighting You-Know- 
Who, wasn’t it? And this is the first chance we’ve had 
to do something real — or was that all just a game or 
something?” 

“No — of course it wasn’t — ” said Harry impatiently. 

“Then we should come too,” said Neville simply. “We 
want to help.” 

Page | 971Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s right,” said Luna, smiling happily. 



Harry’s eyes met Ron’s. He knew that Ron was 
thinking exactly what he was: If he could have chosen 
any members of the D.A. in addition to himself, Ron, 
and Hermione to join him in the attempt to rescue 
Sirius, he would not have picked Ginny, Neville, or 
Luna. 

“Well, it doesn’t matter anyway,” said Harry 
frustratedly, “because we still don’t know how to get 
there — ” 

“I thought we’d settled that?” said Luna maddeningly. 
“We’re flying!” 

“Look,” said Ron, barely containing his anger, “you 
might be able to fly without a broomstick but the rest 
of us can’t sprout wings whenever we — ” 

“There are other ways of flying than with 
broomsticks,” said Luna serenely. 

“I s’pose we’re going to ride on the back of the Kacky 
Snorgle or whatever it is?” Ron demanded. 

“The Crumple-Horned Snorkack can’t fly,” said Luna 
in a dignified voice, “but they can, and Hagrid says 
they’re very good at finding places their riders are 
looking for.” 

Harry whirled around. Standing between two trees, 
their white eyes gleaming eerily, were two thestrals, 
watching the whispered conversation as though they 
understood every word. 

“Yes!” he whispered, moving toward them. They 
tossed their reptilian heads, throwing back long black 
manes, and Harry stretched out his hand eagerly and 

Page | 972Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




patted the nearest one’s shining neck. How could he 
ever have thought them ugly? 

“Is it those mad horse things?” said Ron uncertainly, 
staring at a point slightly to the left of the thestral 
Harry was patting. “Those ones you can’t see unless 
you’ve watched someone snuff it?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“How many?” 

“Just two.” 

“Well, we need three,” said Hermione, who was still 
looking a little shaken, but determined just the same. 

“Four, Hermione,” said Ginny, scowling. 

“I think there are six of us, actually,” said Luna 
calmly, counting. 

“Don’t be stupid, we can’t all go!” said Harry angrily. 
“Look, you three” — he pointed at Neville, Ginny, and 
Luna — “you’re not involved in this, you’re not — ” 

They burst into more protests. His scar gave another, 
more painful, twinge. Every moment they delayed was 
precious; he did not have time to argue. 

“Okay, fine, it’s your choice,” he said curtly. “But 
unless we can find more thestrals you’re not going to 
be able — ” 

“Oh, more of them will come,” said Ginny confidently, 
who like Ron was squinting in quite the wrong 
direction, apparently under the impression that she 
was looking at the horses. 



Page | 973Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What makes you think that?” 

“Because in case you hadn’t noticed, you and 
Hermione are both covered in blood,” she said coolly, 
“and we know Hagrid lures thestrals with raw meat, 
so that’s probably why these two turned up in the 
first place...” 

Harry felt a soft tug on his robes at that moment and 
looked down to see the closest thestral licking his 
sleeve, which was damp with Grawp’s blood. 

“Okay, then,” he said, a bright idea occurring. “Ron 
and I will take these two and go ahead, and Hermione 
can stay here with you three and she’ll attract more 
thestrals — ” 

“I’m not staying behind!” said Hermione furiously. 

“There’s no need,” said Luna, smiling. “Look, here 
come more now... You two must really smell...” 

Harry turned. No fewer than six or seven thestrals 
were picking their way through the trees now, their 
great leathery wings folded tight to their bodies, their 
eyes gleaming through the darkness. He had no 
excuse now... 

“All right,” he said angrily, “pick one and get on, 
then.” 



Page | 974Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





THE DEPARTMENT OF MYSTERIES 

Harry wound his hand tightly into the mane of the 
nearest thestral, placed a foot on a stump nearby, 
and scrambled clumsily onto the horse’s silken back. 
It did not object, but twisted its head around, fangs 
bared, and attempted to continue its eager licking of 
his robes. 

He found there was a way of lodging his knees behind 
the wing joints that made him feel more secure and 
looked around at the others. Neville had heaved 
himself over the back of the next thestral and was 
now attempting to swing one short leg over the 
creature’s back. Luna was already in place, sitting 
sidesaddle and adjusting her robes as though she did 
this every day. Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, however, 
were still standing motionless on the spot, 
openmouthed and staring. 

“What?” he said. 

“How’re we supposed to get on?” said Ron faintly. 
“When we can’t see the things?” 

Page | 975Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“Oh it’s easy,” said Luna, sliding obligingly from her 
thestral and marching over to him, Hermione, and 
Ginny. “Come here...” 

She pulled them over to the other thestrals standing 
around and one by one managed to help them onto 
the backs of their mounts. All three looked extremely 
nervous as she wound their hands into the horses’ 
manes and told them to grip tightly before getting 
back onto her own steed. 

“This is mad,” Ron said faintly, moving his free hand 
gingerly up and down his horse’s neck. “Mad ... if I 
could just see it — ” 

“You’d better hope it stays invisible,” said Harry 
darkly. “We all ready, then?” 

They all nodded and he saw five pairs of knees tighten 
beneath their robes. 

“Okay ...” 

He looked down at the back of his thestral’s glossy 
black head and swallowed. “Ministry of Magic, 
visitors’ entrance, London, then,” he said uncertainly. 
“Er ... if you know ... where to go ...” 

For a moment his thestral did nothing at all. Then, 
with a sweeping movement that nearly unseated him, 
the wings on either side extended, the horse crouched 
slowly and then rocketed upward so fast and so 
steeply that Harry had to clench his arms and legs 
tightly around the horse to avoid sliding backward 
over its bony rump. He closed his eyes and put his 
face down into the horse’s silky mane as they burst 
through the topmost branches of the trees and soared 
out into a bloodred sunset. 



Page | 976Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not think he had ever moved so fast: The 
thestral streaked over the castle, its wide wings 
hardly beating. The cooling air was slapping Harry’s 
face; eyes screwed up against the rushing wind, he 
looked around and saw his five fellows soaring along 
behind him, each of them bent as low as possible into 
the neck of their thestral to protect themselves from 
its slipstream. 

They were over the Hogwarts grounds, they had 
passed Hogsmeade. Harry could see mountains and 
gullies below them. In the falling darkness Harry saw 
small collections of lights as they passed over more 
villages, then a winding road on which a single car 
was beetling its way home through the hills... 

“This is bizarre!” Harry heard Ron yell from 
somewhere behind him, and he imagined how it must 
feel to be speeding along at this height with no visible 
means of support... 

Twilight fell: The sky turned to a light, dusky purple 
littered with tiny silver stars, and soon it was only the 
lights of Muggle towns that gave them any clue of how 
far from the ground they were or how very fast they 
were traveling. Harry’s arms were wrapped tightly 
around his horse’s neck as he willed it to go even 
faster. How much time had elapsed since he had seen 
Sirius lying on the Department of Mysteries floor? 

How much longer would he be able to resist 
Voldemort? All Harry knew for sure was that Sirius 
had neither done as Voldemort wanted, nor died, for 
he was convinced that either outcome would cause 
him to feel Voldemort’s jubilation or fury course 
through his own body, making his scar sear as 
painfully as it had on the night Mr. Weasley was 
attacked... 



Page | 977Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




On they flew through the gathering darkness; Harry’s 
face felt stiff and cold, his legs numb from gripping 
the thestral’s sides so tightly, but he did not dare 
shift positions lest he slip... He was deaf from the 
thundering in his ears and his mouth was dry and 
frozen from the rush of cold night air. He had lost all 
sense of how far they had come; all his faith was in 
the beast below him, still streaking purposefully 
through the night, barely flapping its wings as it sped 
ever onward... 

If they were too late . . . 

He’s still alive, he’s still fighting, I can feel it... 

If Voldemort decided Sirius was not going to crack ... 
I’d know... 

Harry’s stomach gave a jolt. The thestral’s head was 
suddenly pointing toward the ground and he had 
actually slid forward a few inches along its neck. They 
were descending at last... He heard one of the girls 
shriek behind him and twisted around dangerously 
but could see no sign of a falling body. . . Presumably 
they had received a shock from the change of 
position, just as he had... 

And now bright orange lights were growing larger and 
rounder on all sides. They could see the tops of 
buildings, streams of headlights like luminous insect 
eyes, squares of pale yellow that were windows. Quite 
suddenly, it seemed, they were hurtling toward the 
pavement. Harry gripped the thestral with every last 
ounce of his strength, braced for a sudden impact, 
but the horse touched the dark ground as lightly as a 
shadow and Harry slid from his back, looking around 
at the street where the overflowing dumpster still 
stood a short way from the vandalized telephone box, 
Page | 978Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




both drained of color in the flat orange glare of the 
streetlights. 

Ron landed a short way away and toppled 
immediately off his thestral onto the pavement. 

“Never again,” he said, struggling to his feet. He made 
as though to stride away from his thestral, but, 
unable to see it, collided with its hindquarters and 
almost fell over again. “Never, ever again ... that was 
the worst — ” 

Hermione and Ginny touched down on either side of 
him. Both slid off their mounts a little more gracefully 
than Ron, though with similar expressions of relief at 
being back on firm ground. Neville jumped down, 
shaking, but Luna dismounted smoothly. 

“Where do we go from here, then?” she asked Harry in 
a politely interested voice, as though this was all a 
rather interesting day- trip. 

“Over here,” he said. He gave his thestral a quick, 
grateful pat, then led the way quickly to the battered 
telephone box and opened the door. “Come on\” he 
urged the others as they hesitated. 

Ron and Ginny marched in obediently; Hermione, 
Neville, and Luna squashed themselves in after them; 
Harry took one glance back at the thestrals, now 
foraging for scraps of rotten food inside the dumpster, 
then forced himself into the box after Luna. 

“Whoever’s nearest the receiver, dial six two four four 
two!” he said. 

Ron did it, his arm bent bizarrely to reach the dial. As 
it whirred back into place the cool female voice 



Page | 979Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




sounded inside the box, “Welcome to the Ministry of 
Magic. Please state your name and business.” 

“Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger,” 

Harry said very quickly, “Ginny Weasley, Neville 
Longbottom, Luna Lovegood ... We’re here to save 
someone, unless your Ministry can do it first!” 

“Thank you,” said the cool female voice. “Visitors, 
please take the badges and attach them to the front of 
your robes.” 

Half a dozen badges slid out of the metal chute where 
returned coins usually appeared. Hermione scooped 
them up and handed them mutely to Harry over 
Ginny ’s head; he glanced at the topmost one. 

HARRY POTTER 
RESCUE MISSION 

“Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to 
a search and present your wand for registration at the 
security desk, which is located at the far end of the 
Atrium.” 

“Fine!” Harry said loudly, as his scar gave another 
throb. “Now can we move?” 

The floor of the telephone box shuddered and the 
pavement rose up past the glass windows of the 
telephone box. The scavenging thestrals were sliding 
out of sight, blackness closed over their heads, and 
with a dull grinding noise they sank down into the 
depths of the Ministry of Magic. 

A chink of soft golden light hit their feet and, 
widening, rose up their bodies. Harry bent his knees 



Page | 980Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and held his wand as ready as he could in such 
cramped conditions, peering through the glass to see 
whether anybody was waiting for them in the Atrium, 
but it seemed to be completely empty. The light was 
dimmer than it had been by day. There were no fires 
burning under the mantelpieces set into the walls, 
but he saw as the lift slid smoothly to a halt that 
golden symbols continued to twist sinuously in the 
dark blue ceiling. 

“The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant 
evening,” said the woman’s voice. 

The door of the telephone box burst open; Harry 
toppled out of it, followed by Neville and Luna. The 
only sound in the Atrium was the steady rush of 
water from the golden fountain, where jets from the 
wands of the witch and wizard, the point of the 
centaur’s arrow, the tip of the goblin’s hat, and the 
house-elf’s ears continued to gush into the 
surrounding pool. 

“Come on,” said Harry quietly and the six of them 
sprinted off down the hall, Harry in the lead, past the 
fountain, toward the desk where the security man 
who had weighed Harry’s wand had sat and which 
was now deserted. 

Harry felt sure that there ought to be a security 
person there, sure that their absence was an ominous 
sign, and his feeling of foreboding increased as they 
passed through the golden gates to the lifts. He 
pressed the nearest down button and a lift clattered 
into sight almost immediately, the golden grilles slid 
apart with a great, echoing clanking, and they dashed 
inside. Harry stabbed the number nine button, the 
grilles closed with a bang, and the lift began to 
descend, jangling and rattling. Harry had not realized 
how noisy the lifts were on the day that he had come 
Page | 981Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




with Mr. Weasley — he was sure that the din would 
raise every security person within the building, yet 
when the lift halted, the cool female voice said, 
“Department of Mysteries,” and the grilles slid open 
again, they stepped out into the corridor where 
nothing was moving but the nearest torches, 
flickering in the rush of air from the lift. 

Harry turned toward the plain black door. After 
months and months of dreaming about it, he was 
here at last... 

“Let’s go,” he whispered, and he led the way down the 
corridor, Luna right behind him, gazing around with 
her mouth slightly open. 

“Okay, listen,” said Harry, stopping again within six 
feet of the door. “Maybe . . . maybe a couple of people 
should stay here as a — as a lookout, and — ” 

“And how’re we going to let you know something’s 
coming?” asked Ginny, her eyebrows raised. “You 
could be miles away.” 

“We’re coming with you, Harry,” said Neville. 

“Let’s get on with it,” said Ron firmly. 

Harry still did not want to take them all with him, but 
it seemed he had no choice. He turned to face the 
door and walked forward. Just as it had in his dream, 
it swung open and he marched forward, leading the 
others over the threshold. 

They were standing in a large, circular room. 
Everything in here was black including the floor and 
ceiling — identical, unmarked, handle-less black 
doors were set at intervals all around the black walls, 
interspersed with branches of candles whose flames 
Page | 982Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




burned blue, their cool, shimmering light reflected in 
the shining marble floor so that it looked as though 
there was dark water underfoot. 

“Someone shut the door,” Harry muttered. 

He regretted giving this order the moment Neville had 
obeyed it. Without the long chink of light from the 
torch-lit corridor behind them, the place became so 
dark that for a moment the only things they could see 
were the bunches of shivering blue flames on the 
walls and their ghostly reflections in the floor below. 

In his dream, Harry had always walked purposefully 
across this room to the door immediately opposite the 
entrance and walked on. But there were around a 
dozen doors here. Just as he was gazing ahead at the 
doors opposite him, trying to decide which was the 
right one, there was a great rumbling noise and the 
candles began to move sideways. The circular wall 
was rotating. 

Hermione grabbed Harry’s arm as though frightened 
the floor might move too, but it did not. For a few 
seconds the blue flames around them were blurred to 
resemble neon lines as the wall sped around and 
then, quite as suddenly as it had started, the 
rumbling stopped and everything became stationary 
once again. 

Harry’s eyes had blue streaks burned into them; it 
was all he could see. 

“What was that about?” whispered Ron fearfully. 

“I think it was to stop us knowing which door we 
came in from,” said Ginny in a hushed voice. 



Page | 983Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry realized at once that she was right: He could no 
sooner have picked the exit from the other doors than 
located an ant upon the jet-black floor. Meanwhile, 
the door through which they needed to proceed could 
be any of the dozen surrounding them. 

“How’re we going to get back out?” said Neville 
uncomfortably. 

“Well, that doesn’t matter now,” said Harry forcefully, 
blinking to try and erase the blue lines from his 
vision, and clutching his wand tighter than ever. “We 
won’t need to get out till we’ve found Sirius — ” 

“Don’t go calling for him, though!” Hermione said 
urgently, but Harry had never needed her advice less; 
his instinct was to keep as quiet as possible for the 
time being. 

“Where do we go, then, Harry?” Ron asked. 

“I don’t — ” Harry began. He swallowed. “In the 
dreams I went through the door at the end of the 
corridor from the lifts into a dark room — that’s this 
one — and then I went through another door into a 
room that kind of ... glitters. We should try a few 
doors,” he said hastily. “I’ll know the right way when I 
see it. C’mon.” 

He marched straight at the door now facing him, the 
others following close behind him, set his left hand 
against its cool, shining surface, raised his wand, 
ready to strike the moment it opened, and pushed. It 
swung open easily. 

After the darkness of the first room, the lamps 
hanging low on golden chains from this ceiling gave 
the impression that this long rectangular room was 
much brighter, though there were no glittering, 

Page | 984Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




shimmering lights such as Harry had seen in his 
dreams. The place was quite empty except for a few 
desks and, in the very middle of the room, an 
enormous glass tank of deep-green water, big enough 
for all of them to swim in, which contained a number 
of pearly white objects that were drifting around lazily 
in the liquid. 

“What’re those things?” whispered Ron. 

“Dunno,” said Harry. 

“Are they fish?” breathed Ginny. 

“Aquavirius maggots!” said Luna excitedly. “Dad said 
the Ministry were breeding — ” 

“No,” said Hermione. She sounded odd. She moved 
forward to look through the side of the tank. “They’re 
brains.” 

“Brains?” 

“Yes ... I wonder what they’re doing with them?” 

Harry joined her at the tank. Sure enough, there 
could be no mistake now that he saw them at close 
quarters. Glimmering eerily they drifted in and out of 
sight in the depths of the green water, looking 
something like slimy cauliflowers. 

“Let’s get out of here,” said Harry. “This isn’t right, we 
need to try another door — ” 

“There are doors here too,” said Ron, pointing around 
the walls. Harry’s heart sank; how big was this place? 



Page | 985Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“In my dream I went through that dark room into the 
second one,” he said. “I think we should go back and 
try from there.” 

So they hurried back into the dark, circular room; the 
ghostly shapes of the brains were now swimming 
before Harry’s eyes instead of the blue candle flames. 

“Wait!” said Hermione sharply, as Luna made to close 
the door of the brain room behind them. “ FlagrateV’ 

She drew with her wand in midair and a fiery X 
appeared on the door. No sooner had the door clicked 
shut behind them than there was a great rumbling, 
and once again the wall began to revolve very fast, but 
now there was a great red-gold blur in amongst the 
faint blue, and when all became still again, the fiery 
cross still burned, showing the door they had already 
tried. 

“Good thinking,” said Harry. “Okay, let’s try this one 



Again he strode directly at the door facing him and 
pushed it open, his wand still raised, the others at his 
heels. 

This room was larger than the last, dimly lit and 
rectangular, and the center of it was sunken, forming 
a great stone pit some twenty feet below them. They 
were standing on the topmost tier of what seemed to 
be stone benches running all around the room and 
descending in steep steps like an amphitheater, or the 
courtroom in which Harry had been tried by the 
Wizengamot. Instead of a chained chair, however, 
there was a raised stone dais in the center of the 
lowered floor, and upon this dais stood a stone 
archway that looked so ancient, cracked, and 
crumbling that Harry was amazed the thing was still 
Page | 986Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




standing. Unsupported by any surrounding wall, the 
archway was hung with a tattered black curtain or 
veil which, despite the complete stillness of the cold 
surrounding air, was fluttering very slightly as though 
it had just been touched. 

“Who’s there?” said Harry, jumping down onto the 
bench below. There was no answering voice, but the 
veil continued to flutter and sway. 

“Careful!” whispered Hermione. 

Harry scrambled down the benches one by one until 
he reached the stone bottom of the sunken pit. His 
footsteps echoed loudly as he walked slowly toward 
the dais. The pointed archway looked much taller 
from where he stood now than when he had been 
looking down on it from above. Still the veil swayed 
gently, as though somebody had just passed through 
it. 
