
Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




village was full of students bent double against the 
bitter wind. More than once Harry wondered whether 
they might not have had a better time in the warm 
common room, and when they finally reached 
Hogsmeade and saw that Zonko’s Joke Shop had 
been boarded up, Harry took it as confirmation that 
this trip was not destined to be fun. Ron pointed, with 
a thickly gloved hand, toward Honeydukes, which was 
mercifully open, and Harry and Hermione staggered 
in his wake into the crowded shop. 

“Thank God,” shivered Ron as they were enveloped by 
warm, toffee-scented air. “Let’s stay here all 
afternoon.” 

“Harry, m’boy!” said a booming voice from behind 
them. 

“Oh no,” muttered Harry. The three of them turned to 
see Professor Slughorn, who was wearing an 
enormous furry hat and an overcoat with matching 
fur collar, clutching a large bag of crystalized 
pineapple, and occupying at least a quarter of the 
shop. 

“Harry, that’s three of my little suppers you’ve missed 
now!” said Slughorn, poking him genially in the chest. 
“It won’t do, m’boy, I’m determined to have you! Miss 
Granger loves them, don’t you?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione helplessly, “they’re really — ” 

“So why don’t you come along, Harry?” demanded 
Slughorn. 

“Well, I’ve had Quidditch practice, Professor,” said 
Harry, who had indeed been scheduling practices 
every time Slughorn had sent him a little, violet 
ribbon-adorned invitation. This strategy meant that 

Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron was not left out, and they usually had a laugh 
with Ginny, imagining Hermione shut up with 
McLaggen and Zabini. 

“Well, I certainly expect you to win your first match 
after all this hard work!” said Slughorn. “But a little 
recreation never hurt anybody. Now, how about 
Monday night, you can’t possibly want to practice in 
this weather. ...” 

“I can’t, Professor, I’ve got — er — an appointment 
with Professor Dumbledore that evening.” 

“Unlucky again!” cried Slughorn dramatically. “Ah, 
well ... you can’t evade me forever, Harry!” 

And with a regal wave, he waddled out of the shop, 
taking as little notice of Ron as though he had been a 
display of Cockroach Clusters. 

“I can’t believe you’ve wriggled out of another one,” 
said Hermione, shaking her head. “They’re not that 
bad, you know. ... They’re even quite fun sometimes. 
...” But then she caught sight of Ron’s expression. 

“Oh, look — they’ve got deluxe sugar quills — those 
would last hours!” 

Glad that Hermione had changed the subject, Harry 
showed much more interest in the new extra-large 
sugar quills than he would normally have done, but 
Ron continued to look moody and merely shrugged 
when Hermione asked him where he wanted to go 
next. 

“Let’s go to the Three Broomsticks,” said Harry. “It’ll 
be warm.” 

They bundled their scarves back over their faces and 
left the sweetshop. The bitter wind was like knives on 

Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




their faces after the sugary warmth of Honeydukes. 
The street was not very busy; nobody was lingering to 
chat, just hurrying toward their destinations. The 
exceptions were two men a little ahead of them, 
standing just outside the Three Broomsticks. One was 
very tall and thin; squinting through his rain-washed 
glasses Harry recognized the barman who worked in 
the other Hogsmeade pub, the Hog’s Head. As Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione drew closer, the barman drew his 
cloak more tightly around his neck and walked away, 
leaving the shorter man to fumble with something in 
his arms. They were barely feet from him when Harry 
realized who the man was. 

“Mundungus!” 

The squat, bandy-legged man with long, straggly, 
ginger hair jumped and dropped an ancient suitcase, 
which burst open, releasing what looked like the 
entire contents of a junk shop window. 

“Oh, ’ello, ’Arry,” said Mundungus Fletcher, with a 
most unconvincing stab at airiness. “Well, don’t let 
me keep ya.” 

And he began scrabbling on the ground to retrieve the 
contents of his suitcase with every appearance of a 
man eager to be gone. 

“Are you selling this stuff?” asked Harry, watching 
Mundungus grab an assortment of grubby-looking 
objects from the ground. 

“Oh, well, gotta scrape a living,” said Mundungus. 
“Gimme that!” 

Ron had stooped down and picked up something 
silver. 



Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Hang on,” Ron said slowly. “This looks familiar — ” 



“Thank you!” said Mundungus, snatching the goblet 
out of Ron’s hand and stuffing it back into the case. 
“Well, I’ll see you all — OUCH!” 

Harry had pinned Mundungus against the wall of the 
pub by the throat. Holding him fast with one hand, he 
pulled out his wand. 

“Harry!” squealed Hermione. 

“You took that from Sirius’s house,” said Harry, who 
was almost nose to nose with Mundungus and was 
breathing in an unpleasant smell of old tobacco and 
spirits. “That had the Black family crest on it.” 

“I — no — what — ?” spluttered Mundungus, who 
was slowly turning purple. 

“What did you do, go back the night he died and strip 
the place?” snarled Harry. 

“I — no — ” 

“Give it to me!” 

“Harry, you mustn’t!” shrieked Hermione, as 
Mundungus started to turn blue. 

There was a bang, and Harry felt his hands fly off 
Mundungus’s throat. Gasping and spluttering, 
Mundungus seized his fallen case, then — CRACK — 
he Disapparated. 

Harry swore at the top of his voice, spinning on the 
spot to see where Mundungus had gone. 

“COME BACK, YOU THIEVING — !” 

Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s no point, Harry.” 



Tonks had appeared out of nowhere, her mousy hair 
wet with sleet. 

“Mundungus will probably be in London by now. 
There’s no point yelling.” 

“He’s nicked Sirius’s stuff! Nicked it!” 

“Yes, but still,” said Tonks, who seemed perfectly 
untroubled by this piece of information. “You should 
get out of the cold.” 

She watched them go through the door of the Three 
Broomsticks. 

The moment he was inside, Harry burst out, “He was 
nicking Sirius’s stuff.” 

“I know, Harry, but please don’t shout, people are 
staring,” whispered Hermione. “Go and sit down, I’ll 
get you a drink.” 

Harry was still fuming when Hermione returned to 
their table a few minutes later holding three bottles of 
butterbeer. 

“Can’t the Order control Mundungus?” Harry 
demanded of the other two in a furious whisper. 

“Can’t they at least stop him stealing everything that’s 
not fixed down when he’s at headquarters?” 

“Shh!” said Hermione desperately, looking around to 
make sure nobody was listening; there were a couple 
of warlocks sitting close by who were staring at Harry 
with great interest, and Zabini was lolling against a 
pillar not far away. “Harry, I’d be annoyed too, I know 
it’s your things he’s stealing — ” 

Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry gagged on his butterbeer; he had momentarily 
forgotten that he owned number twelve, Grimmauld 
Place. 

“Yeah, it’s my stuff!” he said. “No wonder he wasn’t 
pleased to see me! Well, I’m going to tell Dumbledore 
what’s going on, he’s the only one who scares 
Mundungus.” 

“Good idea,” whispered Hermione, clearly pleased that 
Harry was calming down. “Ron, what are you staring 
at?” 

“Nothing,” said Ron, hastily looking away from the 
bar, but Harry knew he was trying to catch the eye of 
the curvy and attractive barmaid, Madam Rosmerta, 
for whom he had long nursed a soft spot. 

“I expect ‘nothing’s’ in the back getting more 
firewhisky,” said Hermione waspishly. 

Ron ignored this jibe, sipping his drink in what he 
evidently considered to be a dignified silence. Harry 
was thinking about Sirius, and how he had hated 
those silver goblets anyway. Hermione drummed her 
fingers on the table, her eyes flickering between Ron 
and the bar. The moment Harry drained the last 
drops in his bottle she said, “Shall we call it a day 
and go back to school, then?” 

The other two nodded; it had not been a fun trip and 
the weather was getting worse the longer they stayed. 
Once again they drew their cloaks tightly around 
them, rearranged their scarves, pulled on their gloves, 
then followed Katie Bell and a friend out of the pub 
and back up the High Street. Harry’s thoughts 
strayed to Ginny as they trudged up the road to 
Hogwarts through the frozen slush. They had not met 
up with her, undoubtedly, thought Harry, because 
Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




she and Dean were cozily closeted in Madam 
Puddifoot’s Tea Shop, that haunt of happy couples. 
Scowling, he bowed his head against the swirling sleet 
and trudged on. 

It was a little while before Harry became aware that 
the voices of Katie Bell and her friend, which were 
being carried back to him on the wind, had become 
shriller and louder. Harry squinted at their indistinct 
figures. The two girls were having an argument about 
something Katie was holding in her hand. “It’s 
nothing to do with you, Leanne!” Harry heard Katie 
say. 

They rounded a corner in the lane, sleet coming thick 
and fast, blurring Harry’s glasses. Just as he raised a 
gloved hand to wipe them, Leanne made to grab hold 
of the package Katie was holding; Katie tugged it back 
and the package fell to the ground. 

At once, Katie rose into the air, not as Ron had done, 
suspended comically by the ankle, but gracefully, her 
arms outstretched, as though she was about to fly. 

Yet there was something wrong, something eerie. ... 
Her hair was whipped around her by the fierce wind, 
but her eyes were closed and her face was quite 
empty of expression. Harry, Ron, Hermione, and 
Leanne had all halted in their tracks, watching. 

Then, six feet above the ground, Katie let out a 
terrible scream. Her eyes flew open but whatever she 
could see, or whatever she was feeling, was clearly 
causing her terrible anguish. She screamed and 
screamed; Leanne started to scream too and seized 
Katie’s ankles, trying to tug her back to the ground. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione rushed forward to help, 
but even as they grabbed Katie’s legs, she fell on top 
of them; Harry and Ron managed to catch her but she 
was writhing so much they could hardly hold her. 
Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Instead they lowered her to the ground where she 
thrashed and screamed, apparently unable to 
recognize any of them. 

Harry looked around; the landscape seemed deserted. 

“Stay there!” he shouted at the others over the 
howling wind. “I’m going for help!” 

He began to sprint toward the school; he had never 
seen anyone behave as Katie had just behaved and 
could not think what had caused it; he hurtled 
around a bend in the lane and collided with what 
seemed to be an enormous bear on its hind legs. 

“Hagrid!” he panted, disentangling himself from the 
hedgerow into which he had fallen. 

“Harry!” said Hagrid, who had sleet trapped in his 
eyebrows and beard, and was wearing his great, 
shaggy beaverskin coat. “Jus’ bin visitin’ Grawp, he’s 
cornin’ on so well yeh wouldn’ — ” 

“Hagrid, someone’s hurt back there, or cursed, or 
something — ” 

“Wha?” said Hagrid, bending lower to hear what 
Harry was saying over the raging wind. 

“Someone’s been cursed!” bellowed Harry. 

“Cursed? Who’s bin cursed — not Ron? Hermione?” 

“No, it’s not them, it’s Katie Bell — this way ...” 

Together they ran back along the lane. It took them 
no time to find the little group of people around Katie, 
who was still writhing and screaming on the ground; 



Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron, Hermione, and Leanne were all trying to quiet 
her. 

“Get back!” shouted Hagrid. “Lemme see her!” 

“Something’s happened to her!” sobbed Leanne. “I 
don’t know what — ” 

Hagrid stared at Katie for a second, then without a 
word, bent down, scooped her into his arms, and ran 
off toward the castle with her. Within seconds, Katie’s 
piercing screams had died away and the only sound 
was the roar of the wind. 

Hermione hurried over to Katie’s wailing friend and 
put an arm around her. 

“It’s Leanne, isn’t it?” 

The girl nodded. 

“Did it just happen all of a sudden, or — ?” 

“It was when that package tore,” sobbed Leanne, 
pointing at the now sodden brown-paper package on 
the ground, which had split open to reveal a greenish 
glitter. Ron bent down, his hand outstretched, but 
Harry seized his arm and pulled him back. 

“Don’t touch if!” 

He crouched down. An ornate opal necklace was 
visible, poking out of the paper. 

“I’ve seen that before,” said Harry, staring at the 
thing. “It was on display in Borgin and Burkes ages 
ago. The label said it was cursed. Katie must have 
touched it.” He looked up at Leanne, who had started 



Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




to shake uncontrollably. “How did Katie get hold of 
this?” 



“Well, that’s why we were arguing. She came back 
from the bathroom in the Three Broomsticks holding 
it, said it was a surprise for somebody at Hogwarts 
and she had to deliver it. She looked all funny when 
she said it. ... Oh no, oh no, I bet she’d been 
Imperiused and I didn’t realize!” 

Leanne shook with renewed sobs. Hermione patted 
her shoulder gently. 

“She didn’t say who’d given it to her, Leanne?” 

“No ... she wouldn’t tell me ... and I said she was 
being stupid and not to take it up to school, but she 
just wouldn’t listen and ... and then I tried to grab it 
from her . . . and — and — ” 

Leanne let out a wail of despair. 

“We’d better get up to school,” said Hermione, her 
arm still around Leanne. “We’ll be able to find out 
how she is. Come on. ...” 

Harry hesitated for a moment, then pulled his scarf 
from around his face and, ignoring Ron’s gasp, 
carefully covered the necklace in it and picked it up. 

“Well need to show this to Madam Pomfrey,” he said. 

As they followed Hermione and Leanne up the road, 
Harry was thinking furiously. They had just entered 
the grounds when he spoke, unable to keep his 
thoughts to himself any longer. 

“Malfoy knows about this necklace. It was in a case at 
Borgin and Burkes four years ago, I saw him having a 

Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




good look at it while I was hiding from him and his 
dad. This is what he was buying that day when we 
followed him! He remembered it and he went back for 
it!” 



“I — I dunno, Harry,” said Ron hesitantly. “Loads of 
people go to Borgin and Burkes ... and didn’t that girl 
say Katie got it in the girls’ bathroom?” 

“She said she came back from the bathroom with it, 
she didn’t necessarily get it in the bathroom itself — ” 

“McGonagall!” said Ron warningly. 

Harry looked up. Sure enough, Professor McGonagall 
was hurrying down the stone steps through swirling 
sleet to meet them. 

“Hagrid says you four saw what happened to Katie 
Bell — upstairs to my office at once, please! What’s 
that you’re holding, Potter?” 

“It’s the thing she touched,” said Harry. 

“Good lord,” said Professor McGonagall, looking 
alarmed as she took the necklace from Harry. “No, no, 
Filch, they’re with me!” she added hastily, as Filch 
came shuffling eagerly across the entrance hall 
holding his Secrecy Sensor aloft. “Take this necklace 
to Professor Snape at once, but be sure not to touch 
it, keep it wrapped in the scarf!” 

Harry and the others followed Professor McGonagall 
upstairs and into her office. The sleet-spattered 
windows were rattling in their frames, and the room 
was chilly despite the fire crackling in the grate. 
Professor McGonagall closed the door and swept 
around her desk to face Harry, Ron, Hermione, and 
the still sobbing Leanne. 

Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Well?” she said sharply. “What happened?” 



Haltingly, and with many pauses while she attempted 
to control her crying, Leanne told Professor 
McGonagall how Katie had gone to the bathroom in 
the Three Broomsticks and returned holding the 
unmarked package, how Katie had seemed a little 
odd, and how they had argued about the advisability 
of agreeing to deliver unknown objects, the argument 
culminating in the tussle over the parcel, which tore 
open. At this point, Leanne was so overcome, there 
was no getting another word out of her. 

“All right,” said Professor McGonagall, not unkindly, 
“go up to the hospital wing, please, Leanne, and get 
Madam Pomfrey to give you something for shock.” 

When she had left the room, Professor McGonagall 
turned back to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 

“What happened when Katie touched the necklace?” 

“She rose up in the air,” said Harry, before either Ron 
or Hermione could speak, “and then began to scream, 
and collapsed. Professor, can I see Professor 
Dumbledore, please?” 

“The headmaster is away until Monday, Potter,” said 
Professor McGonagall, looking surprised. 

“Away?” Harry repeated angrily. 

“Yes, Potter, away!” said Professor McGonagall tartly. 
“But anything you have to say about this horrible 
business can be said to me, I’m sure!” 

For a split second, Harry hesitated. Professor 
McGonagall did not invite confidences; Dumbledore, 
though in many ways more intimidating, still seemed 

Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




less likely to scorn a theory, however wild. This was a 
life-and-death matter, though, and no moment to 
worry about being laughed at. 

“I think Draco Malfoy gave Katie that necklace, 
Professor.” 

On one side of him, Ron rubbed his nose in apparent 
embarrassment; on the other, Hermione shuffled her 
feet as though quite keen to put a bit of distance 
between herself and Harry. 

“That is a very serious accusation, Potter,” said 
Professor McGonagall, after a shocked pause. “Do you 
have any proof?” 

“No,” said Harry, “but ...” and he told her about 
following Malfoy to Borgin and Burkes and the 
conversation they had overheard between him and 
Mr. Borgin. 

When he had finished speaking, Professor 
McGonagall looked slightly confused. 

“Malfoy took something to Borgin and Burkes for 
repair?” 

“No, Professor, he just wanted Borgin to tell him how 
to mend something, he didn’t have it with him. But 
that’s not the point, the thing is that he bought 
something at the same time, and I think it was that 
necklace — ” 

“You saw Malfoy leaving the shop with a similar 
package?” 

“No, Professor, he told Borgin to keep it in the shop 
for him — ” 



Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But Harry,” Hermione interrupted, “Borgin asked 
him if he wanted to take it with him, and Malfoy said 



no — 






“Because he didn’t want to touch it, obviously!” said 
Harry angrily. 

“What he actually said was, ‘How would I look 
carrying that down the street?’ ” said Hermione. 

“Well, he would look a bit of a prat carrying a 
necklace,” interjected Ron. 

“Oh, Ron,” said Hermione despairingly, “it would be 
all wrapped up, so he wouldn’t have to touch it, and 
quite easy to hide inside a cloak, so nobody would see 
it! I think whatever he reserved at Borgin and Burkes 
was noisy or bulky, something he knew would draw 
attention to him if he carried it down the street — and 
in any case,” she pressed on loudly, before Harry 
could interrupt, “I asked Borgin about the necklace, 
don’t you remember? When I went in to try and find 
out what Malfoy had asked him to keep, I saw it 
there. And Borgin just told me the price, he didn’t say 
it was already sold or anything — ” 

“Well, you were being really obvious, he realized what 
you were up to within about five seconds, of course 
he wasn’t going to tell you — anyway, Malfoy could’ve 
sent off for it since — ” 

“That’s enough!” said Professor McGonagall, as 
Hermione opened her mouth to retort, looking 
furious. “Potter, I appreciate you telling me this, but 
we cannot point the finger of blame at Mr. Malfoy 
purely because he visited the shop where this 
necklace might have been purchased. The same is 
probably true of hundreds of people — ” 



Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“ — that’s what I said — ” muttered Ron. 



“ — and in any case, we have put stringent security 
measures in place this year. I do not believe that 
necklace can possibly have entered this school 
without our knowledge — ” 

“But — ” 

“ — and what is more,” said Professor McGonagall, 
with an air of awful finality, “Mr. Malfoy was not in 
Hogsmeade today.” 

Harry gaped at her, deflating. 

“How do you know, Professor?” 

“Because he was doing detention with me. He has 
now failed to complete his Transfiguration homework 
twice in a row. So, thank you for telling me your 
suspicions, Potter,” she said as she marched past 
them, “but I need to go up to the hospital wing now to 
check on Katie Bell. Good day to you all.” 

She held open her office door. They had no choice but 
to file past her without another word. 

Harry was angry with the other two for siding with 
McGonagall; nevertheless, he felt compelled to join in 
once they started discussing what had happened. 

“So who do you reckon Katie was supposed to give the 
necklace to?” asked Ron, as they climbed the stairs to 
the common room. 

“Goodness only knows,” said Hermione. “But whoever 
it was has had a narrow escape. No one could have 
opened that package without touching the necklace.” 



Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It could’ve been meant for loads of people,” said 
Harry. “Dumbledore — the Death Eaters would love to 
get rid of him, he must be one of their top targets. Or 
Slughorn — Dumbledore reckons Voldemort really 
wanted him and they can’t be pleased that he’s sided 
with Dumbledore. Or — ” 

“Or you,” said Hermione, looking troubled. 

“Couldn’t have been,” said Harry, “or Katie would’ve 
just turned around in the lane and given it to me, 
wouldn’t she? I was behind her all the way out of the 
Three Broomsticks. It would have made much more 
sense to deliver the parcel outside Hogwarts, what 
with Filch searching everyone who goes in and out. I 
wonder why Malfoy told her to take it into the castle?” 

“Harry, Malfoy wasn’t in Hogsmeade!” said Hermione, 
actually stamping her foot in frustration. 

“He must have used an accomplice, then,” said Harry. 
“Crabbe or Goyle — or, come to think of it, another 
Death Eater, he’ll have loads better cronies than 
Crabbe and Goyle now he’s joined up — ” 

Ron and Hermione exchanged looks that plainly said 
There’s no point arguing with him. 

“Dilligrout,” said Hermione firmly as they reached the 
Fat Lady. 

The portrait swung open to admit them to the 
common room. It was quite full and smelled of damp 
clothing; many people seemed to have returned from 
Hogsmeade early because of the bad weather. There 
was no buzz of fear or speculation, however: Clearly, 
the news of Katie’s fate had not yet spread. 



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It wasn’t a very slick attack, really, when you stop 
and think about it,” said Ron, casually turfing a first 
year out of one of the good armchairs by the fire so 
that he could sit down. “The curse didn’t even make it 
into the castle. Not what you’d call foolproof.” 

“You’re right,” said Hermione, prodding Ron out of the 
chair with her foot and offering it to the first year 
again. “It wasn’t very well thought-out at all.” 

“But since when has Malfoy been one of the world’s 
great thinkers?” asked Harry. 

Neither Ron nor Hermione answered him. 



Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






THE SECRET RIDDLE 

Katie was removed to St. Mungo’s Hospital for 
Magical Maladies and Injuries the following day, by 
which time the news that she had been cursed had 
spread all over the school, though the details were 
confused and nobody other than Harry, Ron, 
Hermione, and Leanne seemed to know that Katie 
herself had not been the intended target. 

“Oh, and Malfoy knows, of course,” said Harry to Ron 
and Hermione, who continued their new policy of 
feigning deafness whenever Harry mentioned his 
Malfoy-Is-a-Death-Eater theory. 

Harry had wondered whether Dumbledore would 
return from wherever he had been in time for Monday 
night’s lesson, but having had no word to the 
contrary, he presented himself outside Dumbledore ’s 
office at eight o’clock, knocked, and was told to enter. 
There sat Dumbledore looking unusually tired; his 
hand was as black and burned as ever, but he smiled 
when he gestured to Harry to sit down. The Pensieve 



Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



was sitting on the desk again, casting silvery specks 
of light over the ceiling. 



“You have had a busy time while I have been away,” 
Dumbledore said. “I believe you witnessed Katie’s 
accident.” 

“Yes, sir. How is she?” 

“Still very unwell, although she was relatively lucky. 
She appears to have brushed the necklace with the 
smallest possible amount of skin: There was a tiny 
hole in her glove. Had she put it on, had she even 
held it in her ungloved hand, she would have died, 
perhaps instantly. Luckily Professor Snape was able 
to do enough to prevent a rapid spread of the curse — 



“Why him?” asked Harry quickly. “Why not Madam 
Pomfrey?” 

“Impertinent,” said a soft voice from one of the 
portraits on the wall, and Phineas Nigellus Black, 
Sirius’s great-great-grandfather, raised his head from 
his arms where he had appeared to be sleeping. “I 
would not have permitted a student to question the 
way Hogwarts operated in my day.” 

“Yes, thank you, Phineas,” said Dumbledore 
quellingly. “Professor Snape knows much more about 
the Dark Arts than Madam Pomfrey, Harry. Anyway, 
the St. Mungo’s staff are sending me hourly reports, 
and I am hopeful that Katie will make a full recovery 
in time.” 

“Where were you this weekend, sir?” Harry asked, 
disregarding a strong feeling that he might be 
pushing his luck, a feeling apparently shared by 
Phineas Nigellus, who hissed softly. 

Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I would rather not say just now,” said Dumbledore. 
“However, I shall tell you in due course.” 

“You will?” said Harry, startled. 

“Yes, I expect so,” said Dumbledore, withdrawing a 
fresh bottle of silver memories from inside his robes 
and uncorking it with a prod of his wand. 

“Sir,” said Harry tentatively, “I met Mundungus in 
Hogsmeade.” 

“Ah yes, I am already aware that Mundungus has 
been treating your inheritance with light-fingered 
contempt,” said Dumbledore, frowning a little. “He 
has gone to ground since you accosted him outside 
the Three Broomsticks; I rather think he dreads 
facing me. However, rest assured that he will not be 
making away with any more of Sirius’s old 
possessions.” 

“That mangy old half-blood has been stealing Black 
heirlooms?” said Phineas Nigellus, incensed; and he 
stalked out of his frame, undoubtedly to visit his 
portrait in number twelve, Grimmauld Place. 

“Professor,” said Harry, after a short pause, “did 
Professor McGonagall tell you what I told her after 
Katie got hurt? About Draco Malfoy?” 

“She told me of your suspicions, yes,” said 
Dumbledore. 

“And do you — ?” 

“I shall take all appropriate measures to investigate 
anyone who might have had a hand in Katie’s 
accident,” said Dumbledore. “But what concerns me 
now, Harry, is our lesson.” 

Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry felt slightly resentful at this: If their lessons 
were so very important, why had there been such a 
long gap between the first and second? However, he 
said no more about Draco Malfoy, but watched as 
Dumbledore poured the fresh memories into the 
Pensieve and began swirling the stone basin once 
more between his long-fingered hands. 

“You will remember, I am sure, that we left the tale of 
Lord Voldemort’s beginnings at the point where the 
handsome Muggle, Tom Riddle, had abandoned his 
witch wife, Merope, and returned to his family home 
in Little Hangleton. Merope was left alone in London, 
expecting the baby who would one day become Lord 
Voldemort.” 

“How do you know she was in London, sir?” 

“Because of the evidence of one Caractacus Burke,” 
said Dumbledore, “who, by an odd coincidence, 
helped found the very shop whence came the 
necklace we have just been discussing.” 

He swilled the contents of the Pensieve as Harry had 
seen him swill them before, much as a gold 
prospector sifts for gold. Up out of the swirling, silvery 
mass rose a little old man revolving slowly in the 
Pensieve, silver as a ghost but much more solid, with 
a thatch of hair that completely covered his eyes. 

“Yes, we acquired it in curious circumstances. It was 
brought in by a young witch just before Christmas, 
oh, many years ago now. She said she needed the 
gold badly, well, that much was obvious. Covered in 
rags and pretty far along ... Going to have a baby, see. 
She said the locket had been Slytherin’s. Well, we 
hear that sort of story all the time, ‘Oh, this was 
Merlin’s, this was, his favorite teapot,’ but when I 
looked at it, it had his mark all right, and a few 
Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




simple spells were enough to tell me the truth. Of 
course, that made it near enough priceless. She didn’t 
seem to have any idea how much it was worth. Happy 
to get ten Galleons for it. Best bargain we ever made!” 

Dumbledore gave the Pensieve an extra-vigorous 
shake and Caractacus Burke descended back into the 
swirling mass of memory from whence he had come. 

“He only gave her ten Galleons?” said Harry 
indignantly. 

“Caractacus Burke was not famed for his generosity,” 
said Dumbledore. “So we know that, near the end of 
her pregnancy, Merope was alone in London and in 
desperate need of gold, desperate enough to sell her 
one and only valuable possession, the locket that was 
one of Marvolo’s treasured family heirlooms.” 

“But she could do magic!” said Harry impatiently. 

“She could have got food and everything for herself by 
magic, couldn’t she?” 

“Ah,” said Dumbledore, “perhaps she could. But it is 
my belief — I am guessing again, but I am sure I am 
right — that when her husband abandoned her, 
Merope stopped using magic. I do not think that she 
wanted to be a witch any longer. Of course, it is also 
possible that her unrequited love and the attendant 
despair sapped her of her powers; that can happen. 

In any case, as you are about to see, Merope refused 
to raise her wand even to save her own life.” 

“She wouldn’t even stay alive for her son?” 

Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. “Could you possibly 
be feeling sorry for Lord Voldemort?” 



Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry quickly, “but she had a choice, didn’t 
she, not like my mother — ” 

“Your mother had a choice too,” said Dumbledore 
gently. “Yes, Merope Riddle chose death in spite of a 
son who needed her, but do not judge her too 
harshly, Harry. She was greatly weakened by long 
suffering and she never had your mother’s courage. 
And now, if you will stand ...” 
