
“I’ll have it back, thank you,” said Luna coldly, and 
leaning forward she snatched it out of Harry’s hands. 
Rifling through it to page fifty-seven, she turned it 
resolutely upside down again and disappeared behind 
it, just as the compartment door opened for the third 
time. Harry looked around; he had expected this, but 
that did not make the sight of Draco Malfoy smirking 
at him from between his cronies Crabbe and Goyle 
any more enjoyable. 

“What?” he said aggressively, before Malfoy could 
open his mouth. 

“Manners, Potter, or I’ll have to give you a detention,” 
drawled Malfoy, whose sleek blond hair and pointed 
chin were just like his father’s. “You see, I, unlike 
you, have been made a prefect, which means that I, 
unlike you, have the power to hand out 
punishments.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “but you, unlike me, are a git, so 
get out and leave us alone.” 

Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Neville laughed. Malfoy’s 
lip curled. 



Page | 248Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Tell me, how does it feel being second-best to 
Weasley, Potter?” he asked. 

“Shut up, Malfoy,” said Hermione sharply. 

“I seem to have touched a nerve,” said Malfoy, 
smirking. “Well, just watch yourself, Potter, because 
I’ll be dogging your footsteps in case you step out of 
line.” 

“Get out!” said Hermione, standing up. 

Sniggering, Malfoy gave Harry a last malicious look 
and departed, Crabbe and Goyle lumbering in his 
wake. Hermione slammed the compartment door 
behind them and turned to look at Harry, who knew 
at once that she, like him, had registered what Malfoy 
had said and been just as unnerved by it. 

“Chuck us another Frog,” said Ron, who had clearly 
noticed nothing. 

Harry could not talk freely in front of Neville and 
Luna. He exchanged another nervous look with 
Hermione and then stared out of the window. 

He had thought Sirius coming with him to the station 
was a bit of a laugh, but suddenly it seemed reckless, 
if not downright dangerous... Hermione had been 
right... Sirius should not have come. What if Mr. 
Malfoy had noticed the black dog and told Draco, 
what if he had deduced that the Weasleys, Lupin, 
Tonks, and Moody knew where Sirius was hiding? Or 
had Malfoy’s use of the word “dogging” been a 
coincidence? 

The weather remained undecided as they traveled 
farther and farther north. Rain spattered the windows 
in a halfhearted way, then the sun put in a feeble 

Page | 249Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




appearance before clouds drifted over it once more. 
When darkness fell and lamps came on inside the 
carriages, Luna rolled up The Quibbler, put it 
carefully away in her bag, and took to staring at 
everyone in the compartment instead. 

Harry was sitting with his forehead pressed against 
the train window, trying to get a first distant glimpse 
of Hogwarts, but it was a moonless night and the 
rain-streaked window was grimy. 

“We’d better change,” said Hermione at last. She and 
Ron pinned their prefect badges carefully to their 
chests. Harry saw Ron checking how it looked in the 
black window. 

At last the train began to slow down and they heard 
the usual racket up and down it as everybody 
scrambled to get their luggage and pets assembled, 
ready for departure. Ron and Hermione were 
supposed to supervise all this; they disappeared from 
the carriage again, leaving Harry and the others to 
look after Crookshanks and Pigwidgeon. 

“I’ll carry that owl, if you like,” said Luna to Harry, 
reaching out for Pigwidgeon as Neville stowed Trevor 
carefully in an inside pocket. 

“Oh — er — thanks,” said Harry, handing her the 
cage and hoisting Hedwig’s more securely into his 
arms. 

They shuffled out of the compartment feeling the first 
sting of the night air on their faces as they joined the 
crowd in the corridor. Slowly they moved toward the 
doors. Harry could smell the pine trees that lined the 
path down to the lake. He stepped down onto the 
platform and looked around, listening for the familiar 
call of “Firs’ years over here ... firs’ years ...” 

Page | 250Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But it did not come. Instead a quite different voice, a 
brisk female one, was calling, “First years line up over 
here, please! All first years to me!” 

A lantern came swinging toward Harry and by its light 
he saw the prominent chin and severe haircut of 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, the witch who had taken 
over Hagrid ’s Care of Magical Creatures lessons for a 
while the previous year. 

“Where’s Hagrid?” he said out loud. 

“I don’t know,” said Ginny, “but we’d better get out of 
the way, we’re blocking the door.” 

“Oh yeah ...” 

Harry and Ginny became separated as they moved off 
along the platform and out through the station. 
Jostled by the crowd, Harry squinted through the 
darkness for a glimpse of Hagrid; he had to be here, 
Harry had been relying on it — seeing Hagrid again 
had been one of the things to which he had been 
looking forward most. But there was no sign of him at 
all. 

He can’t have left, Harry told himself as he shuffled 
slowly through a narrow doorway onto the road 
outside with the rest of the crowd. He’s just got a cold 
or something... 

He looked around for Ron or Hermione, wanting to 
know what they thought about the reappearance of 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, but neither of them was 
anywhere near him, so he allowed himself to be 
shunted forward onto the dark rain-washed road 
outside Hogsmeade station. 



Page | 251Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Here stood the hundred or so horseless stagecoaches 
that always took the students above first year up to 
the castle. Harry glanced quickly at them, turned 
away to keep a lookout for Ron and Hermione, then 
did a double take. 

The coaches were no longer horseless. There were 
creatures standing between the carriage shafts; if he 
had had to give them a name, he supposed he would 
have called them horses, though there was something 
reptilian about them, too. They were completely 
fleshless, their black coats clinging to their skeletons, 
of which every bone was visible. Their heads were 
dragonish, and their pupil-less eyes white and 
staring. Wings sprouted from each wither — vast, 
black leathery wings that looked as though they 
ought to belong to giant bats. Standing still and quiet 
in the gloom, the creatures looked eerie and sinister. 
Harry could not understand why the coaches were 
being pulled by these horrible horses when they were 
quite capable of moving along by themselves. 

“Where’s Pig?” said Ron’s voice, right behind Harry. 

“That Luna girl was carrying him,” said Harry, 
turning quickly, eager to consult Ron about Hagrid. 
“Where d’you reckon — ” 

“ — Hagrid is? I dunno,” said Ron, sounding worried. 
“He’d better be okay...” 

A short distance away, Draco Malfoy, followed by a 
small gang of cronies including Crabbe, Goyle, and 
Pansy Parkinson, was pushing some timid-looking 
second years out of the way so that they could get a 
coach to themselves. Seconds later Hermione emerged 
panting from the crowd. 



Page | 252Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Malfoy was being absolutely foul to a first year back 
there, I swear I’m going to report him, he’s only had 
his badge three minutes and he’s using it to bully 
people worse than ever... Where’s Crookshanks?” 

“Ginny’s got him,” said Harry. “There she is...” 

Ginny had just emerged from the crowd, clutching a 
squirming Crookshanks. 

“Thanks,” said Hermione, relieving Ginny of the cat. 
“Come on, let’s get a carriage together before they all 
fillup...” 

“I haven’t got Pig yet!” Ron said, but Hermione was 
already heading off toward the nearest unoccupied 
coach. Harry remained behind with Ron. 

“What are those things, d’you reckon?” he asked Ron, 
nodding at the horrible horses as the other students 
surged past them. 

“What things?” 

“Those horse — ” 

Luna appeared holding Pigwidgeon’s cage in her 
arms; the tiny owl was twittering excitedly as usual. 

“Here you are,” she said. “He’s a sweet little owl, isn’t 
he?” 

“Er ... yeah ... He’s all right,” said Ron gruffly. “Well, 
come on then, let’s get in... what were you saying, 
Harry?” 

“I was saying, what are those horse things?” Harry 
said, as he, Ron, and Luna made for the carriage in 
which Hermione and Ginny were already sitting. 

Page | 253Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What horse things?” 



“The horse things pulling the carriages!” said Harry 
impatiently; they were, after all, about three feet from 
the nearest one; it was watching them with empty 
white eyes. Ron, however, gave Harry a perplexed 
look. 

“What are you talking about?” 

“I’m talking about — look!” 

Harry grabbed Ron’s arm and wheeled him about so 
that he was face-to-face with the winged horse. Ron 
stared straight at it for a second, then looked back at 
Harry. 

“What am I supposed to be looking at?” 

“At the — there, between the shafts! Harnessed to the 
coach! It’s right there in front — ” 

But as Ron continued to look bemused, a strange 
thought occurred to Harry. 

“Can’t ... can’t you see them?” 

“See what?” 

“Can’t you see what’s pulling the carriages?” 

Ron looked seriously alarmed now. 

“Are you feeling all right, Harry?” 

“I ... yeah ...” 

Harry felt utterly bewildered. The horse was there in 
front of him, gleaming solidly in the dim light issuing 

Page | 254Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




from the station windows behind them, vapor rising 
from its nostrils in the chilly night air. Yet unless Ron 
was faking — and it was a very feeble joke if he was — 
Ron could not see it at all. 

“Shall we get in, then?” said Ron uncertainly, looking 
at Harry as though worried about him. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah, go on ...” 

“It’s all right,” said a dreamy voice from beside Harry 
as Ron vanished into the coach’s dark interior. 

“You’re not going mad or anything. I can see them 
too.” 

“Can you?” said Harry desperately, turning to Luna. 
He could see the bat-winged horses reflected in her 
wide, silvery eyes. 

“Oh yes,” said Luna, “I’ve been able to see them ever 
since my first day here. They’ve always pulled the 
carriages. Don’t worry. You’re just as sane as I am.” 

Smiling faintly, she climbed into the musty interior of 
the carriage after Ron. Not altogether reassured, 

Harry followed her. 



Page | 255Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




XX 




THE SORTING HAT’S NEW SONG 

Harry did not want to tell the others that he and Luna 
were having the same hallucination, if that was what 
it was, so he said nothing about the horses as he sat 
down inside the carriage and slammed the door 
behind him. Nevertheless, he could not help watching 
the silhouettes of the horses moving beyond the 
window. 

“Did everyone see that Grubbly-Plank woman?” asked 
Ginny. “What’s she doing back here? Hagrid can’t 
have left, can he?” 

“I’ll be quite glad if he has,” said Luna. “He isn’t a 
very good teacher, is he?” 

“Yes, he is!” said Harry, Ron, and Ginny angrily. 

Harry glared at Hermione; she cleared her throat and 
quickly said, “Erm ... yes ... he’s very good.” 

“Well, we think he’s a bit of a joke in Ravenclaw,” said 
Luna, unfazed. 

Page | 256Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ve got a rubbish sense of humor then,” Ron 
snapped, as the wheels below them creaked into 
motion. 

Luna did not seem perturbed by Ron’s rudeness; on 
the contrary, she simply watched him for a while as 
though he were a mildly interesting television 
program. 

Rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy 
up the road. When they passed between the tall stone 
pillars topped with winged boars on either side of the 
gates to the school grounds, Harry leaned forward to 
try and see whether there were any lights on in 
Hagrid’s cabin by the Forbidden Forest, but the 
grounds were in complete darkness. Hogwarts Castle, 
however, loomed ever closer: a towering mass of 
turrets, jet-black against the dark sky, here and there 
a window blazing fiery bright above them. 

The carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps 
leading up to the oak front doors and Harry got out of 
the carriage first. He turned again to look for lit 
windows down by the forest, but there was definitely 
no sign of life within Hagrid’s cabin. Unwillingly, 
because he had half hoped they would have vanished, 
he turned his eyes instead upon the strange, skeletal 
creatures standing quietly in the chill night air, their 
blank white eyes gleaming. 

Harry had once before had the experience of seeing 
something that Ron could not, but that had been a 
reflection in a mirror, something much more 
insubstantial than a hundred very solid-looking 
beasts strong enough to pull a fleet of carriages. If 
Luna was to be believed, the beasts had always been 
there but invisible; why, then, could Harry suddenly 
see them, and why could Ron not? 



Page | 257Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you coming or what?” said Ron beside him. 



“Oh ... yeah,” said Harry quickly, and they joined the 
crowd hurrying up the stone steps into the castle. 

The entrance hall was ablaze with torches and 
echoing with footsteps as the students crossed the 
flagged stone floor for the double doors to the right, 
leading to the Great Hall and the start-of-term feast. 

The four long House tables in the Great Hall were 
filling up under the starless black ceiling, which was 
just like the sky they could glimpse through the high 
windows. Candles floated in midair all along the 
tables, illuminating the silvery ghosts who were 
dotted about the Hall and the faces of the students 
talking eagerly to one another, exchanging summer 
news, shouting greetings at friends from other 
Houses, eyeing one another’s new haircuts and robes. 
Again Harry noticed people putting their heads 
together to whisper as he passed; he gritted his teeth 
and tried to act as though he neither noticed nor 
cared. 

Luna drifted away from them at the Ravenclaw table. 
The moment they reached Gryffindor’s, Ginny was 
hailed by some fellow fourth years and left to sit with 
them; Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville found seats 
together about halfway down the table between Nearly 
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor House ghost, and 
Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown, the last two of 
whom gave Harry airy, overly friendly greetings that 
made him quite sure they had stopped talking about 
him a split second before. He had more important 
things to worry about, however: He was looking over 
the students’ heads to the staff table that ran along 
the top wall of the Hall. 

“He’s not there.” 

Page | 258Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron and Hermione scanned the staff table too, though 
there was no real need; Hagrid’s size made him 
instantly obvious in any lineup. 

“He can’t have left,” said Ron, sounding slightly 
anxious. 

“Of course he hasn’t,” said Harry firmly. 

“You don’t think he’s ... hurt, or anything, do you?” 
said Hermione uneasily. 

“No,” said Harry at once. 

“But where is he, then?” 

There was a pause, then Harry said very quietly, so 
that Neville, Parvati, and Lavender could not hear, 
“Maybe he’s not back yet. You know — from his 
mission — the thing he was doing over the summer 
for Dumbledore.” 

“Yeah ... yeah, that’ll be it,” said Ron, sounding 
reassured, but Hermione bit her lip, looking up and 
down the staff table as though hoping for some 
conclusive explanation of Hagrid’s absence. 

“Who’s that?” she said sharply, pointing toward the 
middle of the staff table. 

Harry’s eyes followed hers. They lit first upon 
Professor Dumbledore, sitting in his high-backed 
golden chair at the center of the long staff table, 
wearing deep-purple robes scattered with silvery stars 
and a matching hat. Dumbledore’s head was inclined 
toward the woman sitting next to him, who was 
talking into his ear. She looked, Harry thought, like 
somebody’s maiden aunt: squat, with short, curly, 
mouse-brown hair in which she had placed a horrible 
Page | 259Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




pink Alice band that matched the fluffy pink cardigan 
she wore over her robes. Then she turned her face 
slightly to take a sip from her goblet and he saw, with 
a shock of recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a 
pair of prominent, pouchy eyes. 

“It’s that Umbridge woman!” 

“Who?” said Hermione. 

“She was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!” 

“Nice cardigan,” said Ron, smirking. 

“She works for Fudge?” Hermione repeated, frowning. 
“What on earth’s she doing here, then?” 

“Dunno ...” 

Hermione scanned the staff table, her eyes narrowed. 

“No,” she muttered, “no, surely not ...” 

Harry did not understand what she was talking about 
but did not ask; his attention had just been caught by 
Professor Grubbly-Plank who had just appeared 
behind the staff table; she worked her way along to 
the very end and took the seat that ought to have 
been Hagrid’s. That meant that the first years must 
have crossed the lake and reached the castle, and 
sure enough, a few seconds later, the doors from the 
entrance hall opened. A long line of scared-looking 
first years entered, led by Professor McGonagall, who 
was carrying a stool on which sat an ancient wizard’s 
hat, heavily patched and darned with a wide rip near 
the frayed brim. 

The buzz of talk in the Great Hall faded away. The 
first years lined up in front of the staff table facing the 

Page | 260Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




rest of the students, and Professor McGonagall placed 
the stool carefully in front of them, then stood back. 

The first years’ faces glowed palely in the candlelight. 
A small boy right in the middle of the row looked as 
though he was trembling. Harry recalled, fleetingly, 
how terrified he had felt when he had stood there, 
waiting for the unknown test that would determine to 
which House he belonged. 

The whole school waited with bated breath. Then the 
rip near the hat’s brim opened wide like a mouth and 
the Sorting Hat burst into song: 

In times of old when I was new 
And Hogwarts barely started 
The founders of our noble school 
Thought never to be parted: 

United by a common goal, 

They had the selfsame yearning, 

To make the world’s best magic school 
And pass along their learning. 

“Together we will build and teach!” 

The four good friends decided 
And never did they dream that they 
Might someday be divided, 

For were there such friends anywhere 
As Slytherin and Gryffndor? 

Unless it was the second pair 
Of Huffepuff and Ravenclaw? 

So how could it have gone so wrong? 

How could such friendships fail? 

Why, I was there and so can tell 
The whole sad, sorry tale. 

Said Slytherin, “We’ll teach just those 
Whose ancestry is purest.” 

Said Ravenclaw, “We’ll teach those whose 
Intelligence is surest.” 

Said Gryffindor, “We’ll teach all those 

Page | 261Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




With brave deeds to their name,” 

Said Hufflepuff, “111 teach the lot, 

And treat them just the same.” 

These differences caused little strife 
When first they came to light, 

For each of the four founders had 
A House in which they might 
Take only those they wanted, so, 

For instance, Slytherin 
Took only pure-blood wizards 
Of great cunning, just like him, 

And only those of sharpest mind 
Were taught by Ravenclaw 
While the bravest and the boldest 
Went to daring Gryffindor. 

Good Hufflepuff she took the rest, 

And taught them all she knew, 

Thus the Houses and their founders 
Retained friendships firm and true. 

So Hogwarts worked in harmony 
For several happy years, 

But then discord crept among us 
Feeding on our faults and fears. 

The Houses that, like pillars four, 

Had once held up our school, 

Now turned upon each other and, 

Divided, sought to rule. 

And for a while it seemed the school 
Must meet an early end, 

What with dueling and with fighting 
And the clash of friend on friend 
And at last there came a morning 
When old Slytherin departed 
And though the fighting then died out 
He left us quite downhearted. 

And never since the founders four 
Were whittled down to three 
Have the Houses been united 
As they once were meant to be. 

Page | 262Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And now the Sorting Hat is here 
And you all know the score: 

I sort you into Houses 
Because that is what I’m for, 

But this year I’ll go further, 

Listen closely to my song: 

Though condemned I am to split you 
Still I worry that it’s wrong, 

Though I must fulfill my duty 
And must quarter every year 
Still I wonder whether sorting 
May not bring the end I fear. 

Oh, know the perils, read the signs, 

The warning history shows, 

For our Hogwarts is in danger 
From external, deadly foes 
And we must unite inside her 
Or we’ll crumble from within. 

I have told you, I have warned you... 

Let the Sorting now begin. 

The hat became motionless once more; applause 
broke out, though it was punctured, for the first time 
in Harry’s memory, with muttering and whispers. All 
across the Great Hall students were exchanging 
remarks with their neighbors and Harry, clapping 
along with everyone else, knew exactly what they were 
talking about. 

“Branched out a bit this year, hasn’t it?” said Ron, his 
eyebrows raised. 

“Too right it has,” said Harry. 

The Sorting Hat usually confined itself to describing 
the different qualities looked for by each of the four 
Hogwarts Houses and its own role in sorting them; 
Harry could not remember it ever trying to give the 
school advice before. 

Page | 263Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I wonder if it’s ever given warnings before?” said 
Hermione, sounding slightly anxious. 



“Yes, indeed,” said Nearly Headless Nick 
knowledgeably, leaning across Neville toward her 
(Neville winced, it was very uncomfortable to have a 
ghost lean through you). “The hat feels itself honor- 
bound to give the school due warning whenever it 
feels — ” 

But Professor McGonagall, who was waiting to read 
out the list of first years’ names, was giving the 
whispering students the sort of look that scorches. 
Nearly Headless Nick placed a see-through finger to 
his lips and sat primly upright again as the muttering 
came to an abrupt end. With a last frowning look that 
swept the four House tables, Professor McGonagall 
lowered her eyes to her long piece of parchment and 
called out, 

“Abercrombie, Euan.” 

The terrified-looking boy Harry had noticed earlier 
stumbled forward and put the hat on his head; it was 
only prevented from falling right down to his 
shoulders by his very prominent ears. The hat 
considered for a moment, then the rip near the brim 
opened again and shouted, “ GR YFFIND OR ! ” 

Harry clapped loudly with the rest of Gryffindor 
House as Euan Abercrombie staggered to their table 
and sat down, looking as though he would like very 
much to sink through the floor and never be looked at 
again. 

Slowly the long line of first years thinned; in the 
pauses between the names and the Sorting Hat’s 
decisions, Harry could hear Ron’s stomach rumbling 
loudly. Finally, “Zeller, Rose” was sorted into 

Page | 264Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hufflepuff, and Professor McGonagall picked up the 
hat and stool and marched them away as Professor 
Dumbledore rose to his feet. 

Harry was somehow soothed to see Dumbledore 
standing before them all, whatever his recent bitter 
feelings toward his headmaster. Between the absence 
of Hagrid and the presence of those dragonish horses, 
he had felt that his return to Hogwarts, so long 
anticipated, was full of unexpected surprises like 
jarring notes in a familiar song. But this, at least, was 
how it was supposed to be: their headmaster rising to 
greet them all before the start-of-term feast. 

“To our newcomers,” said Dumbledore in a ringing 
voice, his arms stretched wide and a beaming smile 
on his lips, “welcome! To our old hands — welcome 
back! There is a time for speech making, but this is 
not it. Tuck in!” 

There was an appreciative laugh and an outbreak of 
applause as Dumbledore sat down neatly and threw 
his long beard over his shoulder so as to keep it out of 
the way of his plate — for food had appeared out of 
nowhere, so that the five long tables were groaning 
under joints and pies and dishes of vegetables, bread, 
sauces, and flagons of pumpkin juice. 

“Excellent,” said Ron, with a kind of groan of longing, 
and he seized the nearest plate of chops and began 
piling them onto his plate, watched wistfully by 
Nearly Headless Nick. 

“What were you saying before the Sorting?” Hermione 
asked the ghost. “About the hat giving warnings?” 

“Oh yes,” said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to 
turn away from Ron, who was now eating roast 
potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm. “Yes, I 

Page | 265Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have heard the hat give several warnings before, 
always at times when it detects periods of great 
danger for the school. And always, of course, its 
advice is the same: Stand together, be strong from 
within.” 

“Ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?” said Ron. 

His mouth was so full Harry thought it was quite an 
achievement for him to make any noise at all. 

“I beg your pardon?” said Nearly Headless Nick 
politely, while Hermione looked revolted. Ron gave an 
enormous swallow and said, “How can it know if the 
school’s in danger if it’s a hat?” 

“I have no idea,” said Nearly Headless Nick. “Of 
course, it lives in Dumbledore’s office, so I daresay it 
picks things up there.” 

“And it wants all the Houses to be friends?” said 
Harry, looking over at the Slytherin table, where 
Draco Malfoy was holding court. “Fat chance.” 

“Well, now, you shouldn’t take that attitude,” said 
Nick reprovingly. “Peaceful cooperation, that’s the 
key. We ghosts, though we belong to separate Houses, 
maintain links of friendship. In spite of the 
competitiveness between Gryffindor and Slytherin, I 
would never dream of seeking an argument with the 
Bloody Baron.” 

“Only because you’re terrified of him,” said Ron. 

Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted. 

“Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy- 
Porpington, have never been guilty of cowardice in my 
life! The noble blood that runs in my veins — ” 

Page | 266Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What blood?” asked Ron. “Surely you haven’t still got 
— ?” 

“It’s a figure of speech!” said Nearly Headless Nick, 
now so annoyed his head was trembling ominously on 
his partially severed neck. “I assume I am still allowed 
to enjoy the use of whichever words I like, even if the 
pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! But I 
am quite used to students poking fun at my death, I 
assure you!” 

“Nick, he wasn’t really laughing at you!” said 
Hermione, throwing a furious look at Ron. 

Unfortunately, Ron’s mouth was packed to exploding 
point again and all he could manage was “node 
iddum eentup sechew,” which Nick did not seem to 
think constituted an adequate apology. Rising into 
the air, he straightened his feathered hat and swept 
away from them to the other end of the table, coming 
to rest between the Creevey brothers, Colin and 
Dennis. 

“Well done, Ron,” snapped Hermione. 

“What?” said Ron indignantly, having managed, 
finally, to swallow his food. “I’m not allowed to ask a 
simple question?” 

“Oh forget it,” said Hermione irritably, and the pair of 
them spent the rest of the meal in huffy silence. 

Harry was too used to their bickering to bother trying 
to reconcile them; he felt it was a better use of his 
time to eat his way steadily through his steak-and- 
kidney pie, then a large plateful of his favorite treacle 
tart. 



Page | 267Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




When all the students had finished eating and the 
noise level in the hall was starting to creep upward 
again, Dumbledore got to his feet once more. Talking 
ceased immediately as all turned to face the 
headmaster. Harry was feeling pleasantly drowsy 
now. His four-poster bed was waiting somewhere 
above, wonderfully warm and soft... 

“Well, now that we are all digesting another 
magnificent feast, I beg a few moments of your 
attention for the usual start-of-term notices,” said 
Dumbledore. “First years ought to know that the 
forest in the grounds is out of bounds to students — 
and a few of our older students ought to know by now 
too.” (Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged smirks.) 

“Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he 
tells me is the four hundred and sixty-second time, to 
remind you all that magic is not permitted in 
corridors between classes, nor are a number of other 
things, all of which can be checked on the extensive 
list now fastened to Mr. Filch’s office door. 

“We have had two changes in staffing this year. We 
are very pleased to welcome back Professor Grubbly- 
Plank, who will be taking Care of Magical Creatures 
lessons; we are also delighted to introduce Professor 
Umbridge, our new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher.” 

There was a round of polite but fairly unenthusiastic 
applause during which Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
exchanged slightly panicked looks; Dumbledore had 
not said for how long Grubbly-Plank would be 
teaching. 

Dumbledore continued, “Tryouts for the House 
Quidditch teams will take place on the — ” 



Page | 268Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He broke off, looking inquiringly at Professor 
Umbridge. As she was not much taller standing than 
sitting, there was a moment when nobody understood 
why Dumbledore had stopped talking, but then 
Professor Umbridge said, “Hem, hem,” and it became 
clear that she had got to her feet and was intending to 
make a speech. 

Dumbledore only looked taken aback for a moment, 
then he sat back down smartly and looked alertly at 
Professor Umbridge as though he desired nothing 
better than to listen to her talk. Other members of 
staff were not as adept at hiding their surprise. 
Professor Sprout’s eyebrows had disappeared into her 
flyaway hair, and Professor McGonagall’s mouth was 
as thin as Harry had ever seen it. No new teacher had 
ever interrupted Dumbledore before. Many of the 
students were smirking; this woman obviously did not 
know how things were done at Hogwarts. 

“Thank you, Headmaster,” Professor Umbridge 
simpered, “for those kind words of welcome.” 

Her voice was high-pitched, breathy, and little-girlish 
and again, Harry felt a powerful rush of dislike that 
he could not explain to himself; all he knew was that 
he loathed everything about her, from her stupid 
voice to her fluffy pink cardigan. She gave another 
little throat-clearing cough (“Hem, hem”) and 
continued: “Well, it is lovely to be back at Hogwarts, I 
must say!” She smiled, revealing very pointed teeth. 
“And to see such happy little faces looking back at 
me!” 

Harry glanced around. None of the faces he could see 
looked happy; on the contrary, they all looked rather 
taken aback at being addressed as though they were 
