
“Who d’you two keep writing to, eh?” said Ron. 

“Nose out, Ron, or I’ll burn that for you too,” said 
Fred, waving his wand threateningly. “So ... you lot 
got dates for the ball yet?” 

“Nope,” said Ron. 

“Well, you’d better hurry up, mate, or all the good 
ones will be gone,” said Fred. 

“Who’re you going with, then?” said Ron. 

“Angelina,” said Fred promptly, without a trace of 
embarrassment. 

“What?” said Ron, taken aback. “You’ve already asked 
her?” 

“Good point,” said Fred. He turned his head and 
called across the common room, “Oi! Angelina!” 

Page | 434 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Angelina, who had been chatting with Alicia Spinnet 
near the fire, looked over at him. 



“What?” she called back. 

“Want to come to the ball with me?” 

Angelina gave Fred an appraising sort of look. 

“All right, then,” she said, and she turned back to 
Alicia and carried on chatting with a bit of a grin on 
her face. 

“There you go,” said Fred to Harry and Ron, “piece of 
cake.” 

He got to his feet, yawning, and said, “We’d better use 
a school owl then, George, come on. ...” 

They left. Ron stopped feeling his eyebrows and 
looked across the smoldering wreck of his card castle 
at Harry. 

“We should get a move on, you know ... ask someone. 
He’s right. We don’t want to end up with a pair of 
trolls.” 

Hermione let out a sputter of indignation. 

“A pair of . . . what, excuse me?” 

“Well — you know,” said Ron, shrugging. “I’d rather 
go alone than with — with Eloise Midgen, say.” 

“Her acne’s loads better lately — and she’s really 
nice!” 

“Her nose is off-center,” said Ron. 

Page | 435 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh I see,” Hermione said, bristling. “So basically, 
you’re going to take the best-looking girl who’ll have 
you, even if she’s completely horrible?” 

“Er — yeah, that sounds about right,” said Ron. 

“I’m going to bed,” Hermione snapped, and she swept 
off toward the girls’ staircase without another word. 

The Hogwarts staff, demonstrating a continued desire 
to impress the visitors from Beauxbatons and 
Durmstrang, seemed determined to show the castle at 
its best this Christmas. When the decorations went 
up, Harry noticed that they were the most stunning 
he had yet seen inside the school. Everlasting icicles 
had been attached to the banisters of the marble 
staircase; the usual twelve Christmas trees in the 
Great Hall were bedecked with everything from 
luminous holly berries to real, hooting, golden owls, 
and the suits of armor had all been bewitched to sing 
carols whenever anyone passed them. It was quite 
something to hear “O Come, All Ye Faithful” sung by 
an empty helmet that only knew half the words. 
Several times, Filch the caretaker had to extract 
Peeves from inside the armor, where he had taken to 
hiding, filling in the gaps in the songs with lyrics of 
his own invention, all of which were very rude. 

And still, Harry hadn’t asked Cho to the ball. He and 
Ron were getting very nervous now, though as Harry 
pointed out, Ron would look much less stupid than 
he would without a partner; Harry was supposed to 
be starting the dancing with the other champions. 

“I suppose there’s always Moaning Myrtle,” he said 
gloomily, referring to the ghost who haunted the girls’ 
toilets on the second floor. 



Page | 436 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry — we’ve just got to grit our teeth and do it,” 
said Ron on Friday morning, in a tone that suggested 
they were planning the storming of an impregnable 
fortress. “When we get back to the common room 
tonight, we’ll both have partners — agreed?” 

“Er ... okay,” said Harry. 

But every time he glimpsed Cho that day — during 
break, and then lunchtime, and once on the way to 
History of Magic — she was surrounded by friends. 
Didn’t she ever go anywhere alone? Could he perhaps 
ambush her as she was going into a bathroom? But 
no — she even seemed to go there with an escort of 
four or five girls. Yet if he didn’t do it soon, she was 
bound to have been asked by somebody else. 

He found it hard to concentrate on Snape’s Potions 
test, and consequently forgot to add the key 
ingredient — a bezoar — meaning that he received 
bottom marks. He didn’t care, though; he was too 
busy screwing up his courage for what he was about 
to do. When the bell rang, he grabbed his bag, and 
hurried to the dungeon door. 

“I’ll meet you at dinner,” he said to Ron and 
Hermione, and he dashed off upstairs. 

He’d just have to ask Cho for a private word, that was 
all. ... He hurried off through the packed corridors 
looking for her, and (rather sooner than he had 
expected) he found her, emerging from a Defense 
Against the Dark Arts lesson. 

“Er — Cho? Could I have a word with you?” 

Giggling should be made illegal, Harry thought 
furiously, as all the girls around Cho started doing it. 



Page | 437 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She didn’t, though. She said, “Okay,” and followed 
him out of earshot of her classmates. 

Harry turned to look at her and his stomach gave a 
weird lurch as though he had missed a step going 
downstairs. 

“Er,” he said. 

He couldn’t ask her. He couldn’t. But he had to. Cho 
stood there looking puzzled, watching him. 

The words came out before Harry had quite got his 
tongue around them. 

“Wangoballwime?” 

“Sorry?” said Cho. 

“D’you — d’you want to go to the ball with me?” said 
Harry. Why did he have to go red now? Why ? 

“Oh!” said Cho, and she went red too. “Oh Harry, I’m 
really sorry,” and she truly looked it. “I’ve already said 
I’ll go with someone else.” 

“Oh,” said Harry. 

It was odd; a moment before his insides had been 
writhing like snakes, but suddenly he didn’t seem to 
have any insides at all. 

“Oh okay,” he said, “no problem.” 

“I’m really sorry,” she said again. 

“That’s okay,” said Harry. 



Page | 438 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They stood there looking at each other, and then Cho 
said, “Well — ” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“Well, ’bye,” said Cho, still very red. She walked away. 
Harry called after her, before he could stop himself. 
“Who ’re you going with?” 

“Oh — Cedric,” she said. “Cedric Diggory.” 

“Oh right,” said Harry. 

His insides had come back again. It felt as though 
they had been filled with lead in their absence. 

Completely forgetting about dinner, he walked slowly 
back up to Gryffindor Tower, Cho’s voice echoing in 
his ears with every step he took. “ Cedric — Cedric 
Diggory.” He had been starting to quite like Cedric — 
prepared to overlook the fact that he had once beaten 
him at Quidditch, and was handsome, and popular, 
and nearly everyone’s favorite champion. Now he 
suddenly realized that Cedric was in fact a useless 
pretty boy who didn’t have enough brains to fill an 
eggcup. 

“Fairy lights,” he said dully to the Fat Lady — the 
password had been changed the previous day. 

“Yes, indeed, dear!” she trilled, straightening her new 
tinsel hair band as she swung forward to admit him. 

Entering the common room, Harry looked around, 
and to his surprise he saw Ron sitting ashen-faced in 
a distant corner. Ginny was sitting with him, talking 
to him in what seemed to be a low, soothing voice. 

Page | 439 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s up, Ron?” said Harry, joining them. 



Ron looked up at Harry, a sort of blind horror in his 
face. 

“Why did I do it?” he said wildly. “I don’t know what 
made me do it!” 

“What?” said Harry. 

“He — er — just asked Fleur Delacour to go to the 
ball with him,” said Ginny. She looked as though she 
was fighting back a smile, but she kept patting Ron’s 
arm sympathetically. 

“You what?” said Harry. 

“I don’t know what made me do it!” Ron gasped again. 
“What was I playing at? There were people — all 
around — I’ve gone mad — everyone watching! I was 
just walking past her in the entrance hall — she was 
standing there talking to Diggory — and it sort of 
came over me — and I asked her!” 

Ron moaned and put his face in his hands. He kept 
talking, though the words were barely 
distinguishable. 

“She looked at me like I was a sea slug or something. 
Didn’t even answer. And then — I dunno — I just sort 
of came to my senses and ran for it.” 

“She’s part veela,” said Harry. “You were right — her 
grandmother was one. It wasn’t your fault, I bet you 
just walked past when she was turning on the old 
charm for Diggory and got a blast of it — but she was 
wasting her time. He’s going with Cho Chang.” 

Ron looked up. 

Page | 440 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I asked her to go with me just now,” Harry said dully, 
“and she told me.” 

Ginny had suddenly stopped smiling. 

“This is mad,” said Ron. “We’re the only ones left who 
haven’t got anyone — well, except Neville. Hey — 
guess who he asked? Hermionel” 

“ What?” said Harry, completely distracted by this 
startling news. 

“Yeah, I know!” said Ron, some of the color coming 
back into his face as he started to laugh. “He told me 
after Potions! Said she’s always been really nice, 
helping him out with work and stuff — but she told 
him she was already going with someone. Ha! As if! 
She just didn’t want to go with Neville ... I mean, who 
would?” 

“Don’t!” said Ginny, annoyed. “Don’t laugh — ” 

Just then Hermione climbed in through the portrait 
hole. 

“Why weren’t you two at dinner?” she said, coming 
over to join them. 

“Because — oh shut up laughing, you two — because 
they’ve both just been turned down by girls they 
asked to the ball!” said Ginny. 

That shut Harry and Ron up. 

“Thanks a bunch, Ginny,” said Ron sourly. 

“All the good-looking ones taken, Ron?” said 
Hermione loftily. “Eloise Midgen starting to look quite 



Page | 441 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




pretty now, is she? Well, I’m sure you’ll find someone 
somewhere who’ll have you.” 

But Ron was staring at Hermione as though suddenly 
seeing her in a whole new light. 

“Hermione, Neville’s right — you are a girl. ...” 

“Oh well spotted,” she said acidly. 

“Well — you can come with one of us!” 

“No, I can’t,” snapped Hermione. 

“Oh come on,” he said impatiently, “we need partners, 
we’re going to look really stupid if we haven’t got any, 
everyone else has ...” 

“I can’t come with you,” said Hermione, now blushing, 
“because I’m already going with someone.” 

“No, you’re not!” said Ron. “You just said that to get 
rid of Neville!” 

“Oh did I?” said Hermione, and her eyes flashed 
dangerously. “Just because it’s taken you three years 
to notice, Ron, doesn’t mean no one else has spotted 
I’m a girl!” 

Ron stared at her. Then he grinned again. 

“Okay, okay, we know you’re a girl,” he said. “That 
do? Will you come now?” 

“I’ve already told you!” Hermione said very angrily. 

“I’m going with someone else!” 

And she stormed off toward the girls’ dormitories 
again. 

Page | 442 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s lying,” said Ron flatly, watching her go. 

“She’s not,” said Ginny quietly. 

“Who is it then?” said Ron sharply. 

“I’m not telling you, it’s her business,” said Ginny. 

“Right,” said Ron, who looked extremely put out, “this 
is getting stupid. Ginny, you can go with Harry, and 
I’ll just—” 

“I can’t,” said Ginny, and she went scarlet too. “I’m 
going with — with Neville. He asked me when 
Hermione said no, and I thought ... well ... I’m not 
going to be able to go otherwise, I’m not in fourth 
year.” She looked extremely miserable. “I think I’ll go 
and have dinner,” she said, and she got up and 
walked off to the portrait hole, her head bowed. 

Ron goggled at Harry. 

“What’s got into them?” he demanded. 

But Harry had just seen Parvati and Lavender come 
in through the portrait hole. The time had come for 
drastic action. 

“Wait here,” he said to Ron, and he stood up, walked 
straight up to Parvati, and said, “Parvati? Will you go 
to the ball with me?” 

Parvati went into a fit of giggles. Harry waited for 
them to subside, his fingers crossed in the pocket of 
his robes. 

“Yes, all right then,” she said finally, blushing 
furiously. 



Page | 443 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Thanks,” said Harry, in relief. “Lavender — will you 
go with Ron?” 

“She’s going with Seamus,” said Parvati, and the pair 
of them giggled harder than ever. 

Harry sighed. 

“Can’t you think of anyone who’d go with Ron?” he 
said, lowering his voice so that Ron wouldn’t hear. 

“What about Hermione Granger?” said Parvati. 

“She’s going with someone else.” 

Parvati looked astonished. 

“Ooooh — who?” she said keenly. 

Harry shrugged. “No idea,” he said. “So what about 
Ron?” 

“Well ...” said Parvati slowly, “I suppose my sister 
might ... Padma, you know ... in Ravenclaw. I’ll ask 
her if you like.” 

“Yeah, that would be great,” said Harry. “Let me 
know, will you?” 

And he went back over to Ron, feeling that this ball 
was a lot more trouble than it was worth, and hoping 
very much that Padma Patil’s nose was dead center. 



Page | 444 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE YULE BALL 

Despite the very heavy load of homework that the 
fourth years had been given for the holidays, Harry 
was in no mood to work when term ended, and spent 
the week leading up to Christmas enjoying himself as 
fully as possible along with everyone else. Gryffindor 
Tower was hardly less crowded now than during 
term-time; it seemed to have shrunk slightly too, as 
its inhabitants were being so much rowdier than 
usual. Fred and George had had a great success with 
their Canary Creams, and for the first couple of days 
of the holidays, people kept bursting into feather all 
over the place. Before long, however, all the 
Gryffindors had learned to treat food anybody else 
offered them with extreme caution, in case it had a 
Canary Cream concealed in the center, and George 
confided to Harry that he and Fred were now working 
on developing something else. Harry made a mental 
note never to accept so much as a crisp from Fred 
and George in future. He still hadn’t forgotten Dudley 
and the Ton-Tongue Toffee. 



Page | 445 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



Snow was falling thickly upon the castle and its 
grounds now. The pale blue Beauxbatons carriage 
looked like a large, chilly, frosted pumpkin next to the 
iced gingerbread house that was Hagrid’s cabin, while 
the Durmstrang ship’s portholes were glazed with ice, 
the rigging white with frost. The house-elves down in 
the kitchen were outdoing themselves with a series of 
rich, warming stews and savory puddings, and only 
Fleur Delacour seemed to be able to find anything to 
complain about. 

“It is too ’eavy, all zis ’Ogwarts food,” they heard her 
saying grumpily as they left the Great Hall behind her 
one evening (Ron skulking behind Harry, keen not to 
be spotted by Fleur). “I will not fit into my dress 
robes!” 

“Oooh there’s a tragedy,” Hermione snapped as Fleur 
went out into the entrance hall. “She really thinks a 
lot of herself, that one, doesn’t she?” 

“Hermione — who are you going to the ball with?” 
said Ron. 

He kept springing this question on her, hoping to 
startle her into a response by asking it when she least 
expected it. However, Hermione merely frowned and 
said, “I’m not telling you, you’ll just make fun of me.” 

“You’re joking, Weasley!” said Malfoy, behind them. 
“You’re not telling me someone’s asked that to the 
ball? Not the long-molared Mudblood?” 

Harry and Ron both whipped around, but Hermione 
said loudly, waving to somebody over Malfoy’s 
shoulder, “Hello, Professor Moody!” 



Page | 446 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy went pale and jumped backward, looking 
wildly around for Moody, but he was still up at the 
staff table, finishing his stew. 

“Twitchy little ferret, aren’t you, Malfoy?” said 
Hermione scathingly, and she, Harry, and Ron went 
up the marble staircase laughing heartily. 

“Hermione,” said Ron, looking sideways at her, 
suddenly frowning, “your teeth ...” 

“What about them?” she said. 

“Well, they’re different ... I’ve just noticed. ...” 

“Of course they are — did you expect me to keep 
those fangs Malfoy gave me?” 

“No, I mean, they’re different to how they were before 
he put that hex on you. ... They’re all ... straight and 
— and normal-sized.” 

Hermione suddenly smiled very mischievously, and 
Harry noticed it too: It was a very different smile from 
the one he remembered. 

“Well ... when I went up to Madam Pomfrey to get 
them shrunk, she held up a mirror and told me to 
stop her when they were back to how they normally 
were,” she said. “And I just ... let her carry on a bit.” 
She smiled even more widely. “Mum and Dad won’t be 
too pleased. I’ve been trying to persuade them to let 
me shrink them for ages, but they wanted me to carry 
on with my braces. You know, they’re dentists, they 
just don’t think teeth and magic should — look! 
Pigwidgeon’s back!” 

Ron’s tiny owl was twittering madly on the top of the 
icicle-laden banisters, a scroll of parchment tied to 

Page | 447 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




his leg. People passing him were pointing and 
laughing, and a group of third-year girls paused and 
said, “Oh look at the weeny owl! Isn’t he cute?” 

“Stupid little feathery git!” Ron hissed, hurrying up 
the stairs and snatching up Pigwidgeon. “You bring 
letters to the addressee! You don’t hang around 
showing off!” 

Pigwidgeon hooted happily, his head protruding over 
Ron’s fist. The third-year girls all looked very 
shocked. 

“Clear off!” Ron snapped at them, waving the fist 
holding Pigwidgeon, who hooted more happily than 
ever as he soared through the air. “Here — take it, 
Harry,” Ron added in an undertone as the third-year 
girls scuttled away looking scandalized. He pulled 
Sirius’s reply off Pigwidgeon’s leg, Harry pocketed it, 
and they hurried back to Gryffindor Tower to read it. 

Everyone in the common room was much too busy in 
letting off more holiday steam to observe what anyone 
else was up to. Ron, Harry, and Hermione sat apart 
from everyone else by a dark window that was 
gradually filling up with snow, and Harry read out: 

Dear Harry, 

Congratulations on getting past the Horntail. Whoever 
put your name in that goblet shouldn’t be feeling too 
happy right now! I was going to suggest a 
Conjunctivitis Curse, as a dragon’s eyes are its 
weakest point — “That’s what Krum did!” Hermione 
whispered — but your way was better, I’m impressed. 

Don’t get complacent, though, Harry. You’ve only done 
one task; whoever put you in for the tournament’s got 
plenty more opportunity if they’re trying to hurt you. 

Page | 448 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Keep your eyes open — particularly when the person 
we discussed is around — and concentrate on keeping 
yourself out of trouble. 

Keep in touch, I still want to hear about anything 
unusual. 

Sirius 

“He sounds exactly like Moody,” said Harry quietly, 
tucking the letter away again inside his robes. “ 
‘Constant vigilance!’ You’d think I walk around with 
my eyes shut, banging off the walls. ...” 

“But he’s right, Harry,” said Hermione, “you have still 
got two tasks to do. You really ought to have a look at 
that egg, you know, and start working out what it 
means. ...” 

“Hermione, he’s got ages!” snapped Ron. “Want a 
game of chess, Harry?” 

“Yeah, okay,” said Harry. Then, spotting the look on 
Hermione ’s face, he said, “Come on, how’m I 
supposed to concentrate with all this noise going on? 

I won’t even be able to hear the egg over this lot.” 

“Oh I suppose not,” she sighed, and she sat down to 
watch their chess match, which culminated in an 
exciting checkmate of Ron’s, involving a couple of 
recklessly brave pawns and a very violent bishop. 

Harry awoke very suddenly on Christmas Day. 
Wondering what had caused his abrupt return to 
consciousness, he opened his eyes, and saw 
something with very large, round, green eyes staring 
back at him in the darkness, so close they were 
almost nose to nose. 



Page | 449 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Dobbyl” Harry yelled, scrambling away from the elf 
so fast he almost fell out of bed. “Don’t do that!” 

“Dobby is sorry, sir!” squeaked Dobby anxiously, 
jumping backward with his long fingers over his 
mouth. “Dobby is only wanting to wish Harry Potter 
‘Merry Christmas’ and bring him a present, sir! Harry 
Potter did say Dobby could come and see him 
sometimes, sir!” 

“It’s okay,” said Harry, still breathing rather faster 
than usual, while his heart rate returned to normal. 
“Just — just prod me or something in future, all right, 
don’t bend over me like that. ...” 

Harry pulled back the curtains around his four- 
poster, took his glasses from his bedside table, and 
put them on. His yell had awoken Ron, Seamus, 

Dean, and Neville. All of them were peering through 
the gaps in their own hangings, heavy-eyed and 
tousle-haired. 

“Someone attacking you, Harry?” Seamus asked 
sleepily. 

“No, it’s just Dobby,” Harry muttered. “Go back to 
sleep.” 

“Nah ... presents!” said Seamus, spotting the large 
pile at the foot of his bed. Ron, Dean, and Neville 
decided that now they were awake they might as well 
get down to some present-opening too. Harry turned 
back to Dobby, who was now standing nervously next 
to Harry’s bed, still looking worried that he had upset 
Harry. There was a Christmas bauble tied to the loop 
on top of his tea cozy. 

“Can Dobby give Harry Potter his present?” he 
squeaked tentatively. 

Page | 450 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“ ’Course you can,” said Harry. “Er ... I’ve got 
something for you too.” 

It was a lie; he hadn’t bought anything for Dobby at 
all, but he quickly opened his trunk and pulled out a 
particularly knobbly rolled-up pair of socks. They 
were his oldest and foulest, mustard yellow, and had 
once belonged to Uncle Vernon. The reason they were 
extra-knobbly was that Harry had been using them to 
cushion his Sneakoscope for over a year now. He 
pulled out the Sneakoscope and handed the socks to 
Dobby, saying, “Sorry, I forgot to wrap them. ...” 

But Dobby was utterly delighted. 

“Socks are Dobby’s favorite, favorite clothes, sir!” he 
said, ripping off his odd ones and pulling on Uncle 
Vernon’s. “I has seven now, sir. ... But sir ...” he said, 
his eyes widening, having pulled both socks up to 
their highest extent, so that they reached to the 
bottom of his shorts, “they has made a mistake in the 
shop, Harry Potter, they is giving you two the same!” 

“Ah, no, Harry, how come you didn’t spot that?” said 
Ron, grinning over from his own bed, which was now 
strewn with wrapping paper. “Tell you what, Dobby — 
here you go — take these two, and you can mix them 
up properly. And here’s your sweater.” 

He threw Dobby a pair of violet socks he had just 
unwrapped, and the hand-knitted sweater Mrs. 
Weasley had sent. Dobby looked quite overwhelmed. 

“Sir is very kind!” he squeaked, his eyes brimming 
with tears again, bowing deeply to Ron. “Dobby knew 
sir must be a great wizard, for he is Harry Potter’s 
greatest friend, but Dobby did not know that he was 
also as generous of spirit, as noble, as selfless — ” 



Page | 451 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re only socks,” said Ron, who had gone slightly 
pink around the ears, though he looked rather 
pleased all the same. “Wow, Harry — ” He had just 
opened Harry’s present, a Chudley Cannon hat. 

“Cool!” He jammed it onto his head, where it clashed 
horribly with his hair. 

Dobby now handed Harry a small package, which 
turned out to be — socks. 

“Dobby is making them himself, sir!” the elf said 
happily. “He is buying the wool out of his wages, sir!” 

The left sock was bright red and had a pattern of 
broomsticks upon it; the right sock was green with a 
pattern of Snitches. 

“They’re ... they’re really ... well, thanks, Dobby,” said 
Harry, and he pulled them on, causing Dobby’s eyes 
to leak with happiness again. 

“Dobby must go now, sir, we is already making 
Christmas dinner in the kitchens!” said Dobby, and 
he hurried out of the dormitory, waving good-bye to 
Ron and the others as he passed. 

Harry’s other presents were much more satisfactory 
than Dobby’s odd socks — with the obvious exception 
of the Dursleys’, which consisted of a single tissue, an 
all-time low — Harry supposed they too were 
remembering the Ton-Tongue Toffee. Hermione had 
given Harry a book called Quidditch Teams of Britain 
and Ireland ; Ron, a bulging bag of Dungbombs; 

Sirius, a handy penknife with attachments to unlock 
any lock and undo any knot; and Hagrid, a vast box 
of sweets including all Harry’s favorites: Bertie Bott’s 
Every Flavor Beans, Chocolate Frogs, Drooble’s Best 
Blowing Gum, and Fizzing Whizbees. There was also, 
of course, Mrs. Weasley’s usual package, including a 
Page | 452 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




new sweater (green, with a picture of a dragon on it — 
Harry supposed Charlie had told her all about the 
Horntail), and a large quantity of homemade mince 
pies. 

Harry and Ron met up with Hermione in the common 
room, and they went down to breakfast together. They 
spent most of the morning in Gryffindor Tower, where 
everyone was enjoying their presents, then returned 
to the Great Hall for a magnificent lunch, which 
included at least a hundred turkeys and Christmas 
puddings, and large piles of Cribbage’s Wizarding 
Crackers. 

They went out onto the grounds in the afternoon; the 
snow was untouched except for the deep channels 
made by the Durmstrang and Beauxbatons students 
on their way up to the castle. Hermione chose to 
watch Harry and the Weasleys’ snowball fight rather 
than join in, and at five o’clock said she was going 
back upstairs to get ready for the ball. 

“What, you need three hours?” said Ron, looking at 
her incredulously and paying for his lapse in 
concentration when a large snowball, thrown by 
George, hit him hard on the side of the head. “Who ’re 
you going with?” he yelled after Hermione, but she 
just waved and disappeared up the stone steps into 
the castle. 

There was no Christmas tea today, as the ball 
included a feast, so at seven o’clock, when it had 
become hard to aim properly, the others abandoned 
their snowball fight and trooped back to the common 
room. The Fat Lady was sitting in her frame with her 
friend Violet from downstairs, both of them extremely 
tipsy, empty boxes of chocolate liqueurs littering the 
bottom of her picture. 



Page | 453 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lairy fights, that’s the one!” she giggled when they 
gave the password, and she swung forward to let 
them inside. 

Harry, Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville changed into 
their dress robes up in their dormitory, all of them 
looking very self-conscious, but none as much as 
Ron, who surveyed himself in the long mirror in the 
corner with an appalled look on his face. There was 
just no getting around the fact that his robes looked 
more like a dress than anything else. In a desperate 
attempt to make them look more manly, he used a 
Severing Charm on the ruff and cuffs. It worked fairly 
well; at least he was now lace-free, although he hadn’t 
done a very neat job, and the edges still looked 
depressingly frayed as the boys set off downstairs. 

“I still can’t work out how you two got the best- 
looking girls in the year,” muttered Dean. 

“Animal magnetism,” said Ron gloomily, pulling stray 
threads out of his cuffs. 

The common room looked strange, full of people 
wearing different colors instead of the usual mass of 
black. Parvati was waiting for Harry at the foot of the 
stairs. She looked very pretty indeed, in robes of 
shocking pink, with her long dark plait braided with 
gold, and gold bracelets glimmering at her wrists. 
Harry was relieved to see that she wasn’t giggling. 

“You — er — look nice,” he said awkwardly. 

“Thanks,” she said. “Padma’s going to meet you in the 
entrance hall,” she added to Ron. 

“Right,” said Ron, looking around. “Where’s 
Hermione?” 



Page | 454 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Parvati shrugged. “Shall we go down then, Harry?” 



“Okay,” said Harry, wishing he could just stay in the 
common room. Fred winked at Harry as he passed 
him on the way out of the portrait hole. 

The entrance hall was packed with students too, all 
milling around waiting for eight o’clock, when the 
doors to the Great Hall would be thrown open. Those 
people who were meeting partners from different 
Houses were edging through the crowd trying to find 
one another. Parvati found her sister, Padma, and led 
her over to Harry and Ron. 

“Hi,” said Padma, who was looking just as pretty as 
Parvati in robes of bright turquoise. She didn’t look 
too enthusiastic about having Ron as a partner, 
though; her dark eyes lingered on the frayed neck and 
sleeves of his dress robes as she looked him up and 
down. 

“Hi,” said Ron, not looking at her, but staring around 
at the crowd. “Oh no ...” 

He bent his knees slightly to hide behind Harry, 
because Fleur Delacour was passing, looking 
stunning in robes of silver-gray satin, and 
accompanied by the Ravenclaw Quidditch captain, 
Roger Davies. When they had disappeared, Ron stood 
straight again and stared over the heads of the crowd. 
