pointedly. 

“ ’Bye,” Harry said miserably to Stan and Ern as Tom 
beckoned Fudge toward the passage that led from the 
bar. 

“ ’Bye, Neville!” called Stan. 

Fudge marched Harry along the narrow passage after 
Tom’s lantern, and then into a small parlor. Tom 
clicked his fingers, a fire burst into life in the grate, 
and he bowed himself out of the room. 

“Sit down, Harry,” said Fudge, indicating a chair by 
the fire. 

Harry sat down, feeling goose bumps rising up his 
arms despite the glow of the fire. Fudge took off his 
pinstriped cloak and tossed it aside, then hitched up 
the trousers of his bottle-green suit and sat down 
opposite Harry. 

“I am Cornelius Fudge, Harry. The Minister of Magic.” 

Harry already knew this, of course; he had seen 
Fudge once before, but as he had been wearing his 
father’s Invisibility Cloak at the time, Fudge wasn’t to 
know that. 



Page | 47 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Tom the innkeeper reappeared, wearing an apron over 
his nightshirt and bearing a tray of tea and crumpets. 
He placed the tray on a table between Fudge and 
Harry and left the parlor, closing the door behind 
him. 

“Well, Harry,” said Fudge, pouring out tea, “you’ve 
had us all in a right flap, I don’t mind telling you. 
Running away from your aunt and uncle’s house like 
that! I’d started to think ... but you’re safe, and that’s 
what matters.” 

Fudge buttered himself a crumpet and pushed the 
plate toward Harry. 

“Eat, Harry, you look dead on your feet. Now then ... 
You will be pleased to hear that we have dealt with 
the unfortunate blowing-up of Miss Marjorie Dursley. 
Two members of the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad 
were dispatched to Privet Drive a few hours ago. Miss 
Dursley has been punctured and her memory has 
been modified. She has no recollection of the incident 
at all. So that’s that, and no harm done.” 

Fudge smiled at Harry over the rim of his teacup, 
rather like an uncle surveying a favorite nephew. 
Harry, who couldn’t believe his ears, opened his 
mouth to speak, couldn’t think of anything to say, 
and closed it again. 

“Ah, you’re worrying about the reaction of your aunt 
and uncle?” said Fudge. “Well, I won’t deny that they 
are extremely angry, Harry, but they are prepared to 
take you back next summer as long as you stay at 
Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays.” 

Harry unstuck his throat. 



Page | 48 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I always stay at Hogwarts for the Christmas and 
Easter holidays,” he said, “and I don’t ever want to go 
back to Privet Drive.” 

“Now, now, I’m sure you’ll feel differently once you’ve 
calmed down,” said Fudge in a worried tone. “They 
are your family, after all, and I’m sure you are fond of 
each other — er — very deep down.” 

It didn’t occur to Harry to put Fudge right. He was 
still waiting to hear what was going to happen to him 
now. 

“So all that remains,” said Fudge, now buttering 
himself a second crumpet, “is to decide where you’re 
going to spend the last three weeks of your vacation. I 
suggest you take a room here at the Leaky Cauldron 
and — ” 

“Hang on,” blurted Harry. “What about my 
punishment?” 

Fudge blinked. 

“Punishment?” 

“I broke the law!” Harry said. “The Decree for the 
Restriction of Underage Wizardry!” 

“Oh, my dear boy, we’re not going to punish you for a 
little thing like that!” cried Fudge, waving his crumpet 
impatiently. “It was an accident! We don’t send people 
to Azkaban just for blowing up their aunts!” 

But this didn’t tally at all with Harry’s past dealings 
with the Ministry of Magic. 

“Last year, I got an official warning just because a 
house-elf smashed a pudding in my uncle’s house!” 

Page | 49 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




he told Fudge, frowning. “The Ministry of Magic said 
I’d be expelled from Hogwarts if there was any more 
magic there!” 

Unless Harry’s eyes were deceiving him, Fudge was 
suddenly looking awkward. 

“Circumstances change, Harry. ... We have to take 
into account ... in the present climate . . . Surely you 
don’t want to be expelled?” 

“Of course I don’t,” said Harry. 

“Well then, what’s all the fuss about?” laughed Fudge. 
“Now, have a crumpet, Harry, while I go and see if 
Tom’s got a room for you.” 

Fudge strode out of the parlor and Harry stared after 
him. There was something extremely odd going on. 
Why had Fudge been waiting for him at the Leaky 
Cauldron, if not to punish him for what he’d done? 
And now Harry came to think of it, surely it wasn’t 
usual for the Minister of Magic himself to get involved 
in matters of underage magic? 

Fudge came back, accompanied by Tom the 
innkeeper. 

“Room eleven’s free, Harry,” said Fudge. “I think you’ll 
be very comfortable. Just one thing, and I’m sure 
you’ll understand ... I don’t want you wandering off 
into Muggle London, all right? Keep to Diagon Alley. 
And you’re to be back here before dark each night. 
Sure you’ll understand. Tom will be keeping an eye on 
you for me.” 

“Okay,” said Harry slowly, “but why — ?” 



Page | 50 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t want to lose you again, do we?” said Fudge 
with a hearty laugh. “No, no ... best we know where 
you are. ... I mean ...” 

Fudge cleared his throat loudly and picked up his 
pinstriped cloak. 

“Well, I’ll be off, plenty to do, you know. ...” 

“Have you had any luck with Black yet?” Harry asked. 

Fudge’s finger slipped on the silver fastenings of his 
cloak. 

“What’s that? Oh, you’ve heard — well, no, not yet, 
but it’s only a matter of time. The Azkaban guards 
have never yet failed ... and they are angrier than I’ve 
ever seen them.” 

Fudge shuddered slightly. 

“So, I’ll say good-bye.” 

He held out his hand and Harry, shaking it, had a 
sudden idea. 

“Er — Minister? Can I ask you something?” 

“Certainly,” said Fudge with a smile. 

“Well, third years at Hogwarts are allowed to visit 
Hogsmeade, but my aunt and uncle didn’t sign the 
permission form. D’you think you could — ?” 

Fudge was looking uncomfortable. 

“Ah,” he said. “No, no, I’m very sorry, Harry, but as 
I’m not your parent or guardian — ” 



Page | 51 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“But you’re the Minister of Magic,” said Harry eagerly. 
“If you gave me permission — ” 

“No, I’m sorry, Harry, but rules are rules,” said Fudge 
flatly. “Perhaps you’ll be able to visit Hogsmeade next 
year. In fact, I think it’s best if you don’t ... yes ... 
well, I’ll be off. Enjoy your stay, Harry.” 

And with a last smile and shake of Harry’s hand, 
Fudge left the room. Tom now moved forward, 
beaming at Harry. 

“If you’ll follow me, Mr. Potter,” he said, “I’ve already 
taken your things up. ...” 

Harry followed Tom up a handsome wooden staircase 
to a door with a brass number eleven on it, which 
Tom unlocked and opened for him. 

Inside was a very comfortable-looking bed, some 
highly polished oak furniture, a cheerfully crackling 
fire and, perched on top of the wardrobe — 

“Hedwig!” Harry gasped. 

The snowy owl clicked her beak and fluttered down 
onto Harry’s arm. 

“Very smart owl you’ve got there,” chuckled Tom. 
“Arrived about five minutes after you did. If there’s 
anything you need, Mr. Potter, don’t hesitate to ask.” 

He gave another bow and left. 

Harry sat on his bed for a long time, absentmindedly 
stroking Hedwig. The sky outside the window was 
changing rapidly from deep, velvety blue to cold, 
steely gray and then, slowly, to pink shot with gold. 
Harry could hardly believe that he’d left Privet Drive 
Page | 52 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




only a few hours ago, that he wasn’t expelled, and 
that he was now facing three Dursley-free weeks. 



“It’s been a very weird night, Hedwig,” he yawned. 

And without even removing his glasses, he slumped 
back onto his pillows and fell asleep. 



Page | 53 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






THE LEAKY CAULDRON 

It took Harry several days to get used to his strange 
new freedom. Never before had he been able to get up 
whenever he wanted or eat whatever he fancied. He 
could even go wherever he pleased, as long as it was 
in Diagon Alley, and as this long cobbled street was 
packed with the most fascinating wizarding shops in 
the world, Harry felt no desire to break his word to 
Fudge and stray back into the Muggle world. 

Harry ate breakfast each morning in the Leaky 
Cauldron, where he liked watching the other guests: 
funny little witches from the country, up for a day’s 
shopping; venerable-looking wizards arguing over the 
latest article in Transfiguration Today; wild-looking 
warlocks; raucous dwarfs; and once, what looked 
suspiciously like a hag, who ordered a plate of raw 
liver from behind a thick woollen balaclava. 

After breakfast Harry would go out into the backyard, 
take out his wand, tap the third brick from the left 
above the trash bin, and stand back as the archway 
into Diagon Alley opened in the wall. 

Page | 54 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Harry spent the long sunny days exploring the shops 
and eating under the brightly colored umbrellas 
outside cafes, where his fellow diners were showing 
one another their purchases (“it’s a lunascope, old 
boy — no more messing around with moon charts, 
see?”) or else discussing the case of Sirius Black 
(“personally, I won’t let any of the children out alone 
until he’s back in Azkaban”). Harry didn’t have to do 
his homework under the blankets by flashlight 
anymore; now he could sit in the bright sunshine 
outside Florean Fortescue’s Ice Cream Parlor, 
finishing all his essays with occasional help from 
Florean Fortescue himself, who, apart from knowing a 
great deal about medieval witch burnings, gave Harry 
free sundaes every half an hour. 

Once Harry had refilled his money bag with gold 
Galleons, silver Sickles, and bronze Knuts from his 
vault at Gringotts, he had to exercise a lot of self- 
control not to spend the whole lot at once. He had to 
keep reminding himself that he had five years to go at 
Hogwarts, and how it would feel to ask the Dursleys 
for money for spellbooks, to stop himself from buying 
a handsome set of solid gold Gobstones (a wizarding 
game rather like marbles, in which the stones squirt a 
nasty-smelling liquid into the other player’s face when 
they lose a point). He was sorely tempted, too, by the 
perfect, moving model of the galaxy in a large glass 
ball, which would have meant he never had to take 
another Astronomy lesson. But the thing that tested 
Harry’s resolution most appeared in his favorite shop, 
Quality Quidditch Supplies, a week after he’d arrived 
at the Leaky Cauldron. 

Curious to know what the crowd in the shop was 
staring at, Harry edged his way inside and squeezed 
in among the excited witches and wizards until he 
glimpsed a newly erected podium, on which was 



Page | 55 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




mounted the most magnificent broom he had ever 
seen in his life. 

“Just come out — prototype — ” a square-jawed 
wizard was telling his companion. 

“It’s the fastest broom in the world, isn’t it, Dad?” 
squeaked a boy younger than Harry, who was 
swinging off his father’s arm. 

“Irish International Side’s just put in an order for 
seven of these beauties!” the proprietor of the shop 
told the crowd. “And they’re favorites for the World 
Cup!” 

A large witch in front of Harry moved, and he was 
able to read the sign next to the broom: 

THE FIREBOLT 

This state-of-the-art racing broom sports a stream- 
lined, superfine handle of ash, treated with a 
diamond-hard polish and hand-numbered with its 
own registration number. Each individually selected 
birch twig in the broomtail has been honed to 
aerodynamic perfection, giving the Firebolt 
unsurpassable balance and pinpoint precision. The 
Firebolt has an acceleration of 150 miles an hour in 
ten seconds and incorporates an unbreakable 
Braking Charm. Price on request. 

Price on request ... Harry didn’t like to think how 
much gold the Firebolt would cost. He had never 
wanted anything as much in his whole life — but he 
had never lost a Quidditch match on his Nimbus Two 
Thousand, and what was the point in emptying his 
Gringotts vault for the Firebolt, when he had a very 
good broom already? Harry didn’t ask for the price, 



Page | 56 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




but he returned, almost every day after that, just to 
look at the Firebolt. 

There were, however, things that Harry needed to 
buy. He went to the Apothecary to replenish his store 
of potions ingredients, and as his school robes were 
now several inches too short in the arm and leg, he 
visited Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Occasions and 
bought new ones. Most important of all, he had to 
buy his new schoolbooks, which would include those 
for his two new subjects, Care of Magical Creatures 
and Divination. 

Harry got a surprise as he looked in at the bookshop 
window. Instead of the usual display of gold- 
embossed spellbooks the size of paving slabs, there 
was a large iron cage behind the glass that held about 
a hundred copies of The Monster Book of Monsters. 
Torn pages were flying everywhere as the books 
grappled with each other, locked together in furious 
wrestling matches and snapping aggressively. 

Harry pulled his booklist out of his pocket and 
consulted it for the first time. The Monster Book of 
Monsters was listed as the required book for Care of 
Magical Creatures. Now Harry understood why Hagrid 
had said it would come in useful. He felt relieved; he 
had been wondering whether Hagrid wanted help with 
some terrifying new pet. 

As Harry entered Flourish and Blotts, the manager 
came hurrying toward him. 

“Hogwarts?” he said abruptly. “Come to get your new 
books?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, “I need — ” 



Page | 57 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Get out of the way,” said the manager impatiently, 
brushing Harry aside. He drew on a pair of very thick 
gloves, picked up a large, knobbly walking stick, and 
proceeded toward the door of the Monster Books’ cage. 

“Hang on,” said Harry quickly, “I’ve already got one of 
those.” 

“Have you?” A look of enormous relief spread over the 
manager’s face. “Thank heavens for that. I’ve been 
bitten five times already this morning — ” 

A loud ripping noise rent the air; two of the Monster 
Books had seized a third and were pulling it apart. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” cried the manager, poking the 
walking stick through the bars and knocking the 
books apart. “I’m never stocking them again, never! 

It’s been bedlam! I thought we’d seen the worst when 
we bought two hundred copies of the Invisible Book of 
Invisibility — cost a fortune, and we never found 
them. ... Well ... is there anything else I can help you 
with?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, looking down his booklist, “I need 
Unfogging the Future by Cassandra Vablatsky.” 

“Ah, starting Divination, are you?” said the manager, 
stripping off his gloves and leading Harry into the 
back of the shop, where there was a corner devoted to 
fortune-telling. A small table was stacked with 
volumes such as Predicting the Unpredictable: Insulate 
Yourself Against Shocks and Broken Balls: When 
Fortunes Turn Foul. 

“Here you are,” said the manager, who had climbed a 
set of steps to take down a thick, black-bound book. 
“Unfogging the Future. Very good guide to all your 



Page | 58 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




basic fortune-telling methods — palmistry, crystal 
balls, bird entrails — ” 

But Harry wasn’t listening. His eyes had fallen on 
another book, which was among a display on a small 
table: Death Omens: What to Do When You Know the 
Worst Is Coming. 

“Oh, I wouldn’t read that if I were you,” said the 
manager lightly, looking to see what Harry was 
staring at. “You’ll start seeing death omens 
everywhere. It’s enough to frighten anyone to death.” 

But Harry continued to stare at the front cover of the 
book; it showed a black dog large as a bear, with 
gleaming eyes. It looked oddly familiar. ... 

The manager pressed Unfogging the Future into 
Harry’s hands. 

“Anything else?” he said. 

“Yes,” said Harry, tearing his eyes away from the 
dog’s and dazedly consulting his booklist. “Er — I 
need Intermediate Transfiguration and The Standard 
Book of Spells, Grade Three.” 

Harry emerged from Flourish and Blotts ten minutes 
later with his new books under his arms and made 
his way back to the Leaky Cauldron, hardly noticing 
where he was going and bumping into several people. 

He tramped up the stairs to his room, went inside, 
and tipped his books onto his bed. Somebody had 
been in to tidy; the windows were open and sun was 
pouring inside. Harry could hear the buses rolling by 
in the unseen Muggle street behind him and the 
sound of the invisible crowd below in Diagon Alley. He 
caught sight of himself in the mirror over the basin. 
Page | 59 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It can’t have been a death omen,” he told his 
reflection defiantly. “I was panicking when I saw that 
thing in Magnolia Crescent. ... It was probably just a 
stray dog. ...” 

He raised his hand automatically and tried to make 
his hair lie flat. 

“You’re fighting a losing battle there, dear,” said his 
mirror in a wheezy voice. 

As the days slipped by, Harry started looking 
wherever he went for a sign of Ron or Hermione. 

Plenty of Hogwarts students were arriving in Diagon 
Alley now, with the start of term so near. Harry met 
Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas, his fellow 
Gryffindors, in Quality Quidditch Supplies, where 
they too were ogling the Firebolt; he also ran into the 
real Neville Longbottom, a round-faced, forgetful boy, 
outside Flourish and Blotts. Harry didn’t stop to chat; 
Neville appeared to have mislaid his booklist and was 
being told off by his very formidable-looking 
grandmother. Harry hoped she never found out that 
he’d pretended to be Neville while on the run from the 
Ministry of Magic. 

Harry woke on the last day of the holidays, thinking 
that he would at least meet Ron and Hermione 
tomorrow, on the Hogwarts Express. He got up, 
dressed, went for a last look at the Firebolt, and was 
just wondering where he’d have lunch, when someone 
yelled his name and he turned. 

“Harry! HARRY!” 

They were there, both of them, sitting outside Florean 
Fortescue’s Ice Cream Parlor — Ron looking 
incredibly freckly, Hermione very brown, both waving 
frantically at him. 

Page | 60 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Finally!” said Ron, grinning at Harry as he sat down. 
“We went to the Leaky Cauldron, but they said you’d 
left, and we went to Flourish and Blotts, and Madam 
Malkin’s, and — ” 

“I got all my school stuff last week,” Harry explained. 
“And how come you knew I’m staying at the Leaky 
Cauldron?” 

“Dad,” said Ron simply. 

Mr. Weasley, who worked at the Ministry of Magic, 
would of course have heard the whole story of what 
had happened to Aunt Marge. 

“Did you really blow up your aunt, Harry?” said 
Hermione in a very serious voice. 

“I didn’t mean to,” said Harry while Ron roared with 
laughter. “I just — lost control.” 

“It’s not funny, Ron,” said Hermione sharply. 
“Honestly, I’m amazed Harry wasn’t expelled.” 

“So am I,” admitted Harry. “Forget expelled, I thought 
I was going to be arrested.” He looked at Ron. “Your 
dad doesn’t know why Fudge let me off, does he?” 

“Probably ’cause it’s you, isn’t it?” shrugged Ron, still 
chuckling. “Famous Harry Potter and all that. I’d hate 
to see what the Ministry’d do to me if I blew up an 
aunt. Mind you, they’d have to dig me up first, 
because Mum would’ve killed me. Anyway, you can 
ask Dad yourself this evening. We’re staying at the 
Leaky Cauldron tonight too! So you can come to 
King’s Cross with us tomorrow! Hermione’s there as 
well!” 



Page | 61 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione nodded, beaming. “Mum and Dad dropped 
me off this morning with all my Hogwarts things.” 

“Excellent!” said Harry happily. “So, have you got all 
your new books and stuff?” 

“Look at this,” said Ron, pulling a long thin box out of 
a bag and opening it. “Brand-new wand. Fourteen 
inches, willow, containing one unicorn tail-hair. And 
we’ve got all our books — ” He pointed at a large bag 
under his chair. “What about those Monster Books, 
eh? The assistant nearly cried when we said we 
wanted two.” 

“What’s all that, Hermione?” Harry asked, pointing at 
not one but three bulging bags in the chair next to 
her. 

“Well, I’m taking more new subjects than you, aren’t 
I?” said Hermione. “Those are my books for 
Arithmancy, Care of Magical Creatures, Divination, 
Study of Ancient Runes, Muggle Studies — ” 

“What are you doing Muggle Studies for?” said Ron, 
rolling his eyes at Harry. “You’re Muggle-born! Your 
mum and dad are Muggles! You already know all 
about Muggles!” 

“But it’ll be fascinating to study them from the 
wizarding point of view,” said Hermione earnestly. 

“Are you planning to eat or sleep at all this year, 
Hermione?” asked Harry, while Ron sniggered. 
Hermione ignored them. 

“I’ve still got ten Galleons,” she said, checking her 
purse. “It’s my birthday in September, and Mum and 
Dad gave me some money to get myself an early 
birthday present.” 

Page | 62 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“How about a nice book?” said Ron innocently. 

“No, I don’t think so,” said Hermione composedly. “I 
really want an owl. I mean, Harry’s got Hedwig and 
you’ve got Errol — ” 

“I haven’t,” said Ron. “Errol’s a family owl. All I’ve got 
is Scabbers.” He pulled his pet rat out of his pocket. 
“And I want to get him checked over,” he added, 
placing Scabbers on the table in front of them. “I 
don’t think Egypt agreed with him.” 

Scabbers was looking thinner than usual, and there 
was a definite droop to his whiskers. 

“There’s a magical creature shop just over there,” said 
Harry, who knew Diagon Alley very well by now. “You 
could see if they’ve got anything for Scabbers, and 
Hermione can get her owl.” 

So they paid for their ice cream and crossed the street 
to the Magical Menagerie. 

There wasn’t much room inside. Every inch of wall 
was hidden by cages. It was smelly and very noisy 
because the occupants of these cages were all 
squeaking, squawking, jabbering, or hissing. The 
witch behind the counter was already advising a 
wizard on the care of double-ended newts, so Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione waited, examining the cages. 

A pair of enormous purple toads sat gulping wetly 
and feasting on dead blowflies. A gigantic tortoise 
with a jewel-encrusted shell was glittering near the 
window. Poisonous orange snails were oozing slowly 
up the side of their glass tank, and a fat white rabbit 
kept changing into a silk top hat and back again with 
a loud popping noise. Then there were cats of every 
color, a noisy cage of ravens, a basket of funny 
Page | 63 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




custard-colored furballs that were humming loudly, 
and on the counter, a vast cage of sleek black rats 
that were playing some sort of skipping game using 
their long, bald tails. 

The double-ended newt wizard left, and Ron 
approached the counter. 

“It’s my rat,” he told the witch. “He been a bit off-color 
ever since I brought him back from Egypt.” 

“Bang him on the counter,” said the witch, pulling a 
pair of heavy black spectacles out of her pocket. 

Ron lifted Scabbers out of his inside pocket and 
placed him next to the cage of his fellow rats, who 
stopped their skipping tricks and scuffled to the wire 
for a better look. 

Like nearly everything Ron owned, Scabbers the rat 
was secondhand (he had once belonged to Ron’s 
brother Percy) and a bit battered. Next to the glossy 
rats in the cage, he looked especially woebegone. 

“Hm,” said the witch, picking up Scabbers. “How old 
is this rat?” 

“Dunno,” said Ron. “Quite old. He used to belong to 
my brother.” 

“What powers does he have?” said the witch, 
examining Scabbers closely. 

“Er — ” The truth was that Scabbers had never shown 
the faintest trace of interesting powers. The witch’s 
eyes moved from Scabbers ’s tattered left ear to his 
front paw, which had a toe missing, and tutted 
loudly. 



Page | 64 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“He’s been through the mill, this one,” she said. 



“He was like that when Percy gave him to me,” said 
Ron defensively. 

“An ordinary common or garden rat like this can’t be 
expected to live longer than three years or so,” said 
the witch. “Now, if you were looking for something a 
bit more hard-wearing, you might like one of these — ” 

She indicated the black rats, who promptly started 
skipping again. Ron muttered, “Show-offs.” 

“Well, if you don’t want a replacement, you can try 
this rat tonic,” said the witch, reaching under the 
counter and bringing out a small red bottle. 

“Okay,” said Ron. “How much — OUCH!” 

Ron buckled as something huge and orange came 
soaring from the top of the highest cage, landed on 
his head, and then propelled itself, spitting madly, at 
Scabbers. 

“NO, CROOKSHANKS, NO!” cried the witch, but 
Scabbers shot from between her hands like a bar of 
soap, landed splay-legged on the floor, and then 
scampered for the door. 

“Scabbers!” Ron shouted, racing out of the shop after 
him; Harry followed. 

It took them nearly ten minutes to catch Scabbers, 
who had taken refuge under a wastepaper bin outside 
Quality Quidditch Supplies. Ron stuffed the trembling 
rat back into his pocket and straightened up, 
massaging his head. 

“What was that?” 

Page | 65 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It was either a very big cat or quite a small tiger,” 
said Harry. 

“Where’s Hermione?” 

“Probably getting her owl — ” 

They made their way back up the crowded street to 
the Magical Menagerie. As they reached it, Hermione 
came out, but she wasn’t carrying an owl. Her arms 
were clamped tightly around the enormous ginger cat. 

“You bought that monster?” said Ron, his mouth 
hanging open. 

“He’s gorgeous, isn’t he?” said Hermione, glowing. 

That was a matter of opinion, thought Harry. The 
cat’s ginger fur was thick and fluffy, but it was 
definitely a bit bowlegged and its face looked grumpy 
and oddly squashed, as though it had run headlong 
into a brick wall. Now that Scabbers was out of sight, 
however, the cat was purring contentedly in 
Hermione ’s arms. 

“Hermione, that thing nearly scalped me!” said Ron. 

“He didn’t mean to, did you, Crookshanks?” said 
Hermione. 

“And what about Scabbers?” said Ron, pointing at the 
lump in his chest pocket. “He needs rest and 
relaxation! How’s he going to get it with that thing 
around?” 

“That reminds me, you forgot your rat tonic,” said 
Hermione, slapping the small red bottle into Ron’s 
hand. “And stop worrying, Crookshanks will be 
sleeping in my dormitory and Scabbers in yours, 

Page | 66 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




what’s the problem? Poor Crookshanks, that witch 
said he’d been in there for ages; no one wanted him.” 

“I wonder why,” said Ron sarcastically as they set off 
toward the Leaky Cauldron. 

They found Mr. Weasley sitting in the bar, reading the 
Daily Prophet. 

“Harry!” he said, smiling as he looked up. “How are 
you?” 

“Fine, thanks,” said Harry as he, Ron, and Hermione 
joined Mr. Weasley with all their shopping. 

Mr. Weasley put down his paper, and Harry saw the 
now familiar picture of Sirius Black staring up at him. 

“They still haven’t caught him, then?” he asked. 

“No,” said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely grave. 
“They’ve pulled us all off our regular jobs at the 
Ministry to try and find him, but no luck so far.” 

“Would we get a reward if we caught him?” asked 
Ron. “It’d be good to get some more money — ” 

“Don’t be ridiculous, Ron,” said Mr. Weasley, who on 
closer inspection looked very strained. “Black’s not 
going to be caught by a thirteen-year-old wizard. It’s 
the Azkaban guards who’ll get him back, you mark 
my words.” 

At that moment Mrs. Weasley entered the bar, laden 
with shopping bags and followed by the twins, Fred 
and George, who were about to start their fifth year at 
Hogwarts; the newly elected Head Boy, Percy; and the 
Weasleys’ youngest child and only girl, Ginny. 



Page | 67 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Ginny, who had always been very taken with Harry, 
seemed even more heartily embarrassed than usual 
when she saw him, perhaps because he had saved 
her life during their previous year at Hogwarts. She 
went very red and muttered “hello” without looking at 
him. Percy, however, held out his hand solemnly as 
though he and Harry had never met and said, “Harry. 
How nice to see you.” 

“Hello, Percy,” said Harry, trying not to laugh. 

“I hope you’re well?” said Percy pompously, shaking 
hands. It was rather like being introduced to the 
mayor. 

“Very well, thanks — ” 

“Harry!” said Fred, elbowing Percy out of the way and 
bowing deeply. “Simply splendid to see you, old boy — 



“Marvelous,” said George, pushing Fred aside and 
seizing Harry’s hand in turn. “Absolutely spiffing.” 

Percy scowled. 

“That’s enough, now,” said Mrs. Weasley. 

“Mum!” said Fred as though he’d only just spotted her 
and seizing her hand too. “How really corking to see 
you — ” 

“I said, that’s enough,” said Mrs. Weasley, depositing 
her shopping in an empty chair. “Hello, Harry, dear. I 
suppose you’ve heard our exciting news?” She pointed 
to the brand-new silver badge on Percy’s chest. 
“Second Head Boy in the family!” she said, swelling 
with pride. 



Page | 68 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“And last,” Fred muttered under his breath. 



“I don’t doubt that,” said Mrs. Weasley, frowning 
suddenly. “I notice they haven’t made you two 
prefects.” 

“What do we want to be prefects for?” said George, 
looking revolted at the very idea. “It’d take all the fun 
out of life.” 

Ginny giggled. 

“You want to set a better example for your sister!” 
snapped Mrs. Weasley. 

“Ginny’s got other brothers to set her an example, 
Mother,” said Percy loftily. “I’m going up to change for 
dinner. ...” 

He disappeared and George heaved a sigh. 

“We tried to shut him in a pyramid,” he told Harry. 
“But Mum spotted us.” 

Dinner that night was a very enjoyable affair. Tom the 
innkeeper put three tables together in the parlor, and 
the seven Weasleys, Harry, and Hermione ate their 
way through five delicious courses. 

“How’re we getting to King’s Cross tomorrow, Dad?” 
asked Fred as they dug into a sumptuous chocolate 
pudding. 

“The Ministry’s providing a couple of cars,” said Mr. 
Weasley. 

Everyone looked up at him. 

“Why?” said Percy curiously. 

Page | 69 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s because of you, Perce,” said George seriously. 
“And there’ll be little flags on the hoods, with HB on 
them — ” 

“ — for Humongous Bighead,” said Fred. 
