blood’s amazingly magical, but you wouldn’t want a 
dragon for a pet, would you?” 

Harry and Ron grinned at Hagrid, who gave them a 
furtive smile from behind his bushy beard. Hagrid 
would have liked nothing better than a pet dragon, as 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew only too well — he 
had owned one for a brief period during their first 
year, a vicious Norwegian Ridgeback by the name of 
Norbert. Hagrid simply loved monstrous creatures, 
the more lethal, the better. 

“Well, at least the skrewts are small,” said Ron as 
they made their way back up to the castle for lunch 
an hour later. 



Page | 218 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They are now,” said Hermione in an exasperated 
voice, “but once Hagrid’s found out what they eat, I 
expect they’ll be six feet long.” 

“Well, that won’t matter if they turn out to cure 
seasickness or something, will it?” said Ron, grinning 
slyly at her. 

“You know perfectly well I only said that to shut 
Malfoy up,” said Hermione. “As a matter of fact I 
think he’s right. The best thing to do would be to 
stamp on the lot of them before they start attacking 
us all.” 

They sat down at the Gryffindor table and helped 
themselves to lamb chops and potatoes. Hermione 
began to eat so fast that Harry and Ron stared at her. 

“Er — is this the new stand on elf rights?” said Ron. 
“You’re going to make yourself puke instead?” 

“No,” said Hermione, with as much dignity as she 
could muster with her mouth bulging with sprouts. “I 
just want to get to the library.” 

“What?” said Ron in disbelief. “Hermione — it’s the 
first day back! We haven’t even got homework yet!” 

Hermione shrugged and continued to shovel down her 
food as though she had not eaten for days. Then she 
leapt to her feet, said, “See you at dinner!” and 
departed at high speed. 

When the bell rang to signal the start of afternoon 
lessons, Harry and Ron set off for North Tower where, 
at the top of a tightly spiraling staircase, a silver 
stepladder led to a circular trapdoor in the ceiling, 
and the room where Professor Trelawney lived. 



Page | 219 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The familiar sweet perfume spreading from the fire 
met their nostrils as they emerged at the top of the 
stepladder. As ever, the curtains were all closed; the 
circular room was bathed in a dim reddish light cast 
by the many lamps, which were all draped with 
scarves and shawls. Harry and Ron walked through 
the mass of occupied chintz chairs and poufs that 
cluttered the room, and sat down at the same small 
circular table. 

“Good day,” said the misty voice of Professor 
Trelawney right behind Harry, making him jump. 

A very thin woman with enormous glasses that made 
her eyes appear far too large for her face, Professor 
Trelawney was peering down at Harry with the tragic 
expression she always wore whenever she saw him. 
The usual large amount of beads, chains, and bangles 
glittered upon her person in the firelight. 

“You are preoccupied, my dear,” she said mournfully 
to Harry. “My inner eye sees past your brave face to 
the troubled soul within. And I regret to say that your 
worries are not baseless. I see difficult times ahead 
for you, alas ... most difficult ... I fear the thing you 
dread will indeed come to pass ... and perhaps sooner 
than you think. ...” 

Her voice dropped almost to a whisper. Ron rolled his 
eyes at Harry, who looked stonily back. Professor 
Trelawney swept past them and seated herself in a 
large winged armchair before the fire, facing the class. 
Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil, who deeply 
admired Professor Trelawney, were sitting on poufs 
very close to her. 

“My dears, it is time for us to consider the stars,” she 
said. “The movements of the planets and the 
mysterious portents they reveal only to those who 

Page | 220 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




understand the steps of the celestial dance. Human 
destiny may be deciphered by the planetary rays, 
which intermingle ...” 

But Harry’s thoughts had drifted. The perfumed fire 
always made him feel sleepy and dull-witted, and 
Professor Trelawney’s rambling talks on fortune- 
telling never held him exactly spellbound — though 
he couldn’t help thinking about what she had just 
said to him. “ ‘I fear the thing you dread will indeed 
come to pass . . . ’ ” 

But Hermione was right, Harry thought irritably, 
Professor Trelawney really was an old fraud. He 
wasn’t dreading anything at the moment at all ... well, 
unless you counted his fears that Sirius had been 
caught ... but what did Professor Trelawney know? He 
had long since come to the conclusion that her brand 
of fortune-telling was really no more than lucky 
guesswork and a spooky manner. 

Except, of course, for that time at the end of last 
term, when she had made the prediction about 
Voldemort rising again . . . and Dumbledore himself 
had said that he thought that trance had been 
genuine, when Harry had described it to him. ... 

“Harry\” Ron muttered. 

“What?” 

Harry looked around; the whole class was staring at 
him. He sat up straight; he had been almost dozing 
off, lost in the heat and his thoughts. 

“I was saying, my dear, that you were clearly born 
under the baleful influence of Saturn,” said Professor 
Trelawney, a faint note of resentment in her voice at 



Page | 221 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the fact that he had obviously not been hanging on 
her words. 

“Born under — what, sorry?” said Harry. 

“Saturn, dear, the planet Saturn!” said Professor 
Trelawney, sounding definitely irritated that he wasn’t 
riveted by this news. “I was saying that Saturn was 
surely in a position of power in the heavens at the 
moment of your birth. ... Your dark hair ... your mean 
stature ... tragic losses so young in life ... I think I am 
right in saying, my dear, that you were born in 
midwinter?” 

“No,” said Harry, “I was born in July.” 

Ron hastily turned his laugh into a hacking cough. 

Half an hour later, each of them had been given a 
complicated circular chart, and was attempting to fill 
in the position of the planets at their moment of birth. 
It was dull work, requiring much consultation of 
timetables and calculation of angles. 

“I’ve got two Neptunes here,” said Harry after a while, 
frowning down at his piece of parchment, “that can’t 
be right, can it?” 

“Aaaaah,” said Ron, imitating Professor Trelawney’s 
mystical whisper, “when two Neptunes appear in the 
sky, it is a sure sign that a midget in glasses is being 
born, Harry ...” 

Seamus and Dean, who were working nearby, 
sniggered loudly, though not loudly enough to mask 
the excited squeals from Lavender Brown — “Oh 
Professor, look! I think I’ve got an unaspected planet! 
Oooh, which one’s that, Professor?” 



Page | 222 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It is Uranus, my dear,” said Professor Trelawney, 
peering down at the chart. 

“Can I have a look at Uranus too, Lavender?” said 
Ron. 

Most unfortunately, Professor Trelawney heard him, 
and it was this, perhaps, that made her give them so 
much homework at the end of the class. 

“A detailed analysis of the way the planetary 
movements in the coming month will affect you, with 
reference to your personal chart,” she snapped, 
sounding much more like Professor McGonagall than 
her usual airy-fairy self. “I want it ready to hand in 
next Monday, and no excuses!” 

“Miserable old bat,” said Ron bitterly as they joined 
the crowds descending the staircases back to the 
Great Hall and dinner. “Thatll take all weekend, that 
will. ...” 

“Lots of homework?” said Hermione brightly, catching 
up with them. “Professor Vector didn’t give us any at 
all!” 

“Well, bully for Professor Vector,” said Ron moodily. 

They reached the entrance hall, which was packed 
with people queuing for dinner. They had just joined 
the end of the line, when a loud voice rang out behind 
them. 

“Weasley! Hey, Weasley!” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione turned. Malfoy, Crabbe, 
and Goyle were standing there, each looking 
thoroughly pleased about something. 



Page | 223 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” said Ron shortly. 



“Your dad’s in the paper, Weasley!” said Malfoy, 
brandishing a copy of the Daily Prophet and speaking 
very loudly, so that everyone in the packed entrance 
hall could hear. “Listen to this! 

FURTHER MISTAKES AT THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC 

It seems as though the Ministry of Magic’s troubles are 
not yet at an end, writes Rita Skeeter, Special 
Correspondent. Recently under fire for its poor crowd 
control at the Quidditch World Cup, and still unable to 
account for the disappearance of one of its witches, the 
Ministry was plunged into fresh embarrassment 
yesterday by the antics of Arnold Weasley, of the 
Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office. ” 

Malfoy looked up. 

“Imagine them not even getting his name right, 
Weasley. It’s almost as though he’s a complete 
nonentity, isn’t it?” he crowed. 

Everyone in the entrance hall was listening now. 
Malfoy straightened the paper with a flourish and 
read on: 

Arnold Weasley, who was charged with possession of 
a flying car two years ago, was yesterday involved in 
a tussle with several Muggle law-keepers (“policemen”) 
over a number of highly aggressive dustbins. Mr. 
Weasley appears to have rushed to the aid of “Mad- 
Eye” Moody, the aged ex-Auror who retired from the 
Ministry when no longer able to tell the difference 
between a handshake and attempted murder. 
Unsurprisingly, Mr. Weasley found, upon arrival at Mr. 
Moody ’s heavily guarded house, that Mr. Moody had 
once again raised a false alarm. Mr. Weasley was 
Page | 224 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




forced to modify several memories before he could 
escape from the policemen, but refused to answer 
Daily Prophet questions about why he had involved 
the Ministry in such an undignified and potentially 
embarrassing scene. 

“And there’s a picture, Weasley!” said Malfoy, flipping 
the paper over and holding it up. “A picture of your 
parents outside their house — if you can call it a 
house! Your mother could do with losing a bit of 
weight, couldn’t she?” 

Ron was shaking with fury. Everyone was staring at 
him. 

“Get stuffed, Malfoy,” said Harry. “C’mon, Ron. ...” 

“Oh yeah, you were staying with them this summer, 
weren’t you, Potter?” sneered Malfoy. “So tell me, is 
his mother really that porky, or is it just the picture?” 

“You know your mother, Malfoy?” said Harry — both 
he and Hermione had grabbed the back of Ron’s 
robes to stop him from launching himself at Malfoy — 
“that expression she’s got, like she’s got dung under 
her nose? Has she always looked like that, or was it 
just because you were with her?” 

Malfoy’s pale face went slightly pink. 

“Don’t you dare insult my mother, Potter.” 

“Keep your fat mouth shut, then,” said Harry, turning 
away. 

BANG! 

Several people screamed — Harry felt something 
white-hot graze the side of his face — he plunged his 

Page | 225 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




hand into his robes for his wand, but before he’d even 
touched it, he heard a second loud BANG, and a roar 
that echoed through the entrance hall. 

“OH NO YOU DONT, LADDIE!” 

Harry spun around. Professor Moody was limping 
down the marble staircase. His wand was out and it 
was pointing right at a pure white ferret, which was 
shivering on the stone-flagged floor, exactly where 
Malfoy had been standing. 

There was a terrified silence in the entrance hall. 
Nobody but Moody was moving a muscle. Moody 
turned to look at Harry — at least, his normal eye was 
looking at Harry; the other one was pointing into the 
back of his head. 

“Did he get you?” Moody growled. His voice was low 
and gravelly. 

“No,” said Harry, “missed.” 

“LEAVE IT!” Moody shouted. 

“Leave — what?” Harry said, bewildered. 

“Not you — him!” Moody growled, jerking his thumb 
over his shoulder at Crabbe, who had just frozen, 
about to pick up the white ferret. It seemed that 
Moody’s rolling eye was magical and could see out of 
the back of his head. 

Moody started to limp toward Crabbe, Goyle, and the 
ferret, which gave a terrified squeak and took off, 
streaking toward the dungeons. 

“I don’t think so!” roared Moody, pointing his wand at 
the ferret again — it flew ten feet into the air, fell with 

Page | 226 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




a smack to the floor, and then bounced upward once 
more. 

“I don’t like people who attack when their opponent’s 
back’s turned,” growled Moody as the ferret bounced 
higher and higher, squealing in pain. “Stinking, 
cowardly, scummy thing to do. ...” 

The ferret flew through the air, its legs and tail flailing 
helplessly. 

“Never — do — that — again — ” said Moody, speaking 
each word as the ferret hit the stone floor and 
bounced upward again. 

“Professor Moody!” said a shocked voice. 

Professor McGonagall was coming down the marble 
staircase with her arms full of books. 

“Hello, Professor McGonagall,” said Moody calmly, 
bouncing the ferret still higher. 

“What — what are you doing?” said Professor 
McGonagall, her eyes following the bouncing ferret’s 
progress through the air. 

“Teaching,” said Moody. 

“Teach — Moody, is that a student?” shrieked 
Professor McGonagall, the books spilling out of her 
arms. 

“Yep,” said Moody. 

“No!” cried Professor McGonagall, running down the 
stairs and pulling out her wand; a moment later, with 
a loud snapping noise, Draco Malfoy had reappeared, 
lying in a heap on the floor with his sleek blond hair 

Page | 227 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




all over his now brilliantly pink face. He got to his 
feet, wincing. 

“Moody, we never use Transfiguration as a 
punishment!” said Professor McGonagall weakly. 
“Surely Professor Dumbledore told you that?” 

“He might’ve mentioned it, yeah,” said Moody, 
scratching his chin unconcernedly, “but I thought a 
good sharp shock — ” 

“We give detentions, Moody! Or speak to the offender’s 
Head of House!” 

“I’ll do that, then,” said Moody, staring at Malfoy with 
great dislike. 

Malfoy, whose pale eyes were still watering with pain 
and humiliation, looked malevolently up at Moody 
and muttered something in which the words “my 
father” were distinguishable. 

“Oh yeah?” said Moody quietly, limping forward a few 
steps, the dull clunk of his wooden leg echoing around 
the hall. “Well, I know your father of old, boy. ... You 
tell him Moody’s keeping a close eye on his son . . . you 
tell him that from me. ... Now, your Head of House’ll 
be Snape, will it?” 

“Yes,” said Malfoy resentfully. 

“Another old friend,” growled Moody. “I’ve been 
looking forward to a chat with old Snape. ... Come on, 
you. ...” 

And he seized Malfoy’s upper arm and marched him 
off toward the dungeons. 



Page | 228 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Professor McGonagall stared anxiously after them for 
a few moments, then waved her wand at her fallen 
books, causing them to soar up into the air and back 
into her arms. 

“Don’t talk to me,” Ron said quietly to Harry and 
Hermione as they sat down at the Gryffindor table a 
few minutes later, surrounded by excited talk on all 
sides about what had just happened. 

“Why not?” said Hermione in surprise. 

“Because I want to fix that in my memory forever,” 
said Ron, his eyes closed and an uplifted expression 
on his face. “Draco Malfoy, the amazing bouncing 
ferret ...” 

Harry and Hermione both laughed, and Hermione 
began doling beef casserole onto each of their plates. 

“He could have really hurt Malfoy, though,” she said. 
“It was good, really, that Professor McGonagall 
stopped it — ” 

“Hermione!” said Ron furiously, his eyes snapping 
open again, “you’re ruining the best moment of my 
life!” 

Hermione made an impatient noise and began to eat 
at top speed again. 

“Don’t tell me you’re going back to the library this 
evening?” said Harry, watching her. 

“Got to,” said Hermione thickly. “Loads to do.” 

“But you told us Professor Vector — ” 



Page | 229 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s not schoolwork,” she said. Within five minutes, 
she had cleared her plate and departed. No sooner 
had she gone than her seat was taken by Fred 
Weasley. 

“Moody!” he said. “How cool is he?” 

“Beyond cool,” said George, sitting down opposite 
Fred. 

“Supercool,” said the twins’ best friend, Lee Jordan, 
sliding into the seat beside George. “We had him this 
afternoon,” he told Harry and Ron. 

“What was it like?” said Harry eagerly. 

Fred, George, and Lee exchanged looks full of 
meaning. 

“Never had a lesson like it,” said Fred. 

“He knows, man,” said Lee. 

“Knows what?” said Ron, leaning forward. 

“Knows what it’s like to be out there doing it,” said 
George impressively. 

“Doing what?” said Harry. 

“Fighting the Dark Arts,” said Fred. 

“He’s seen it all,” said George. 

“ ’Mazing,” said Lee. 

Ron dived into his bag for his schedule. 



Page | 230 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“We haven’t got him till Thursday!” he said in a 
disappointed voice. 



Page | 231 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE UNFORGIVABLE CURSES 

The next two days passed without great incident, 
unless you counted Neville melting his sixth cauldron 
in Potions. Professor Snape, who seemed to have 
attained new levels of vindictiveness over the 
summer, gave Neville detention, and Neville returned 
from it in a state of nervous collapse, having been 
made to disembowel a barrel full of horned toads. 

“You know why Snape ’s in such a foul mood, don’t 
you?” said Ron to Harry as they watched Hermione 
teaching Neville a Scouring Charm to remove the frog 
guts from under his fingernails. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Moody.” 

It was common knowledge that Snape really wanted 
the Dark Arts job, and he had now failed to get it for 
the fourth year running. Snape had disliked all of 
their previous Dark Arts teachers, and shown it — 
but he seemed strangely wary of displaying overt 
animosity to Mad-Eye Moody. Indeed, whenever Harry 
saw the two of them together — at mealtimes, or 

Page | 232 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



when they passed in the corridors — he had the 
distinct impression that Snape was avoiding Moody’s 
eye, whether magical or normal. 

“I reckon Snape’s a bit scared of him, you know,” 
Harry said thoughtfully. 

“Imagine if Moody turned Snape into a horned toad,” 
said Ron, his eyes misting over, “and bounced him all 
around his dungeon. ...” 

The Gryffindor fourth years were looking forward to 
Moody’s first lesson so much that they arrived early 
on Thursday lunchtime and queued up outside his 
classroom before the bell had even rung. The only 
person missing was Hermione, who turned up just in 
time for the lesson. 

“Been in the — ” 

“Library.” Harry finished her sentence for her. 

“C’mon, quick, or we won’t get decent seats.” 

They hurried into three chairs right in front of the 
teacher’s desk, took out their copies of The Dark 
Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection, and waited, 
unusually quiet. Soon they heard Moody’s distinctive 
clunking footsteps coming down the corridor, and he 
entered the room, looking as strange and frightening 
as ever. They could just see his clawed, wooden foot 
protruding from underneath his robes. 

“You can put those away,” he growled, stumping over 
to his desk and sitting down, “those books. You won’t 
need them.” 

They returned the books to their bags, Ron looking 
excited. 



Page | 233 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Moody took out a register, shook his long mane of 
grizzled gray hair out of his twisted and scarred face, 
and began to call out names, his normal eye moving 
steadily down the list while his magical eye swiveled 
around, fixing upon each student as he or she 
answered. 

“Right then,” he said, when the last person had 
declared themselves present, “I’ve had a letter from 
Professor Lupin about this class. Seems you’ve had a 
pretty thorough grounding in tackling Dark creatures 
— you’ve covered boggarts, Red Caps, hinkypunks, 
grindylows, Kappas, and werewolves, is that right?” 

There was a general murmur of assent. 

“But you’re behind — very behind — on dealing with 
curses,” said Moody. “So I’m here to bring you up to 
scratch on what wizards can do to each other. I’ve got 
one year to teach you how to deal with Dark — ” 

“What, aren’t you staying?” Ron blurted out. 

Moody’s magical eye spun around to stare at Ron; 

Ron looked extremely apprehensive, but after a 
moment Moody smiled — the first time Harry had 
seen him do so. The effect was to make his heavily 
scarred face look more twisted and contorted than 
ever, but it was nevertheless good to know that he 
ever did anything as friendly as smile. Ron looked 
deeply relieved. 

“You’ll be Arthur Weasley’s son, eh?” Moody said. 
“Your father got me out of a very tight corner a few 
days ago. ... Yeah, I’m staying just the one year. 
Special favor to Dumbledore. ... One year, and then 
back to my quiet retirement.” 



Page | 234 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He gave a harsh laugh, and then clapped his gnarled 
hands together. 

“So — straight into it. Curses. They come in many 
strengths and forms. Now, according to the Ministry 
of Magic, I’m supposed to teach you countercurses 
and leave it at that. I’m not supposed to show you 
what illegal Dark curses look like until you’re in the 
sixth year. You’re not supposed to be old enough to 
deal with it till then. But Professor Dumbledore’s got 
a higher opinion of your nerves, he reckons you can 
cope, and I say, the sooner you know what you’re up 
against, the better. How are you supposed to defend 
yourself against something you’ve never seen? A 
wizard who’s about to put an illegal curse on you isn’t 
going to tell you what he’s about to do. He’s not going 
to do it nice and polite to your face. You need to be 
prepared. You need to be alert and watchful. You 
need to put that away, Miss Brown, when I’m 
talking.” 

Lavender jumped and blushed. She had been showing 
Parvati her completed horoscope under the desk. 
Apparently Moody’s magical eye could see through 
solid wood, as well as out of the back of his head. 

“So ... do any of you know which curses are most 
heavily punished by wizarding law?” 

Several hands rose tentatively into the air, including 
Ron’s and Hermione’s. Moody pointed at Ron, though 
his magical eye was still fixed on Lavender. 

“Er,” said Ron tentatively, “my dad told me about one. 
... Is it called the Imperius Curse, or something?” 

“Ah, yes,” said Moody appreciatively. “Your father 
would know that one. Gave the Ministry a lot of 
trouble at one time, the Imperius Curse.” 

Page | 235 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Moody got heavily to his mismatched feet, opened his 
desk drawer, and took out a glass jar. Three large 
black spiders were scuttling around inside it. Harry 
felt Ron recoil slightly next to him — Ron hated 
spiders. 

Moody reached into the jar, caught one of the spiders, 
and held it in the palm of his hand so that they could 
all see it. He then pointed his wand at it and 
muttered, “Imperio\” 

The spider leapt from Moody’s hand on a fine thread 
of silk and began to swing backward and forward as 
though on a trapeze. It stretched out its legs rigidly, 
then did a back flip, breaking the thread and landing 
on the desk, where it began to cartwheel in circles. 
Moody jerked his wand, and the spider rose onto two 
of its hind legs and went into what was unmistakably 
a tap dance. 

Everyone was laughing — everyone except Moody. 

“Think it’s funny, do you?” he growled. “You’d like it, 
would you, if I did it to you?” 

The laughter died away almost instantly. 

“Total control,” said Moody quietly as the spider 
balled itself up and began to roll over and over. “I 
could make it jump out of the window, drown itself, 
throw itself down one of your throats ...” 

Ron gave an involuntary shudder. 

“Years back, there were a lot of witches and wizards 
being controlled by the Imperius Curse,” said Moody, 
and Harry knew he was talking about the days in 
which Voldemort had been all-powerful. “Some job for 



Page | 236 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the Ministry, trying to sort out who was being forced 
to act, and who was acting of their own free will. 

“The Imperius Curse can be fought, and I’ll be 
teaching you how, but it takes real strength of 
character, and not everyone’s got it. Better avoid 
being hit with it if you can. CONSTANT VIGILANCE!” 
he barked, and everyone jumped. 

Moody picked up the somersaulting spider and threw 
it back into the jar. 

“Anyone else know one? Another illegal curse?” 

Hermione’s hand flew into the air again and so, to 
Harry’s slight surprise, did Neville’s. The only class in 
which Neville usually volunteered information was 
Herbology, which was easily his best subject. Neville 
looked surprised at his own daring. 

“Yes?” said Moody, his magical eye rolling right over 
to fix on Neville. 

“There’s one — the Cruciatus Curse,” said Neville in a 
small but distinct voice. 

Moody was looking very intently at Neville, this time 
with both eyes. 

“Your name’s Longbottom?” he said, his magical eye 
swooping down to check the register again. 

Neville nodded nervously, but Moody made no further 
inquiries. Turning back to the class at large, he 
reached into the jar for the next spider and placed it 
upon the desktop, where it remained motionless, 
apparently too scared to move. 



Page | 237 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“The Cruciatus Curse,” said Moody. “Needs to be a bit 
bigger for you to get the idea,” he said, pointing his 
wand at the spider. “Engorgio\” 

The spider swelled. It was now larger than a 
tarantula. Abandoning all pretense, Ron pushed his 
chair backward, as far away from Moody’s desk as 
possible. 

Moody raised his wand again, pointed it at the spider, 
and muttered, “CrucioV’ 

At once, the spider’s legs bent in upon its body; it 
rolled over and began to twitch horribly, rocking from 
side to side. No sound came from it, but Harry was 
sure that if it could have given voice, it would have 
been screaming. Moody did not remove his wand, and 
the spider started to shudder and jerk more violently 



“Stop it!” Hermione said shrilly. 

Harry looked around at her. She was looking, not at 
the spider, but at Neville, and Harry, following her 
gaze, saw that Neville’s hands were clenched upon the 
desk in front of him, his knuckles white, his eyes 
wide and horrified. 

Moody raised his wand. The spider’s legs relaxed, but 
it continued to twitch. 

“Reducio,” Moody muttered, and the spider shrank 
back to its proper size. He put it back into the jar. 

“Pain,” said Moody softly. “You don’t need 
thumbscrews or knives to torture someone if you can 
perform the Cruciatus Curse. ... That one was very 
popular once too. 



Page | 238 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Right . . . anyone know any others?” 



Harry looked around. From the looks on everyone’s 
faces, he guessed they were all wondering what was 
going to happen to the last spider. Hermione’s hand 
shook slightly as, for the third time, she raised it into 
the air. 

“Yes?” said Moody, looking at her. 

“Avada Kedavra,” Hermione whispered. 

Several people looked uneasily around at her, 
including Ron. 

“Ah,” said Moody, another slight smile twisting his 
lopsided mouth. “Yes, the last and worst. Avada 
Kedavra ... the Killing Curse.” 

He put his hand into the glass jar, and almost as 
though it knew what was coming, the third spider 
scuttled frantically around the bottom of the jar, 
trying to evade Moody’s fingers, but he trapped it, and 
placed it upon the desktop. It started to scuttle 
frantically across the wooden surface. 

Moody raised his wand, and Harry felt a sudden thrill 
of foreboding. 

“Avada Kedavral” Moody roared. 

There was a flash of blinding green light and a 
rushing sound, as though a vast, invisible something 
was soaring through the air — instantaneously the 
spider rolled over onto its back, unmarked, but 
unmistakably dead. Several of the students stifled 
cries; Ron had thrown himself backward and almost 
toppled off his seat as the spider skidded toward him. 

Page | 239 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Moody swept the dead spider off the desk onto the 
floor. 

“Not nice,” he said calmly. “Not pleasant. And there’s 
no countercurse. There’s no blocking it. Only one 
known person has ever survived it, and he’s sitting 
right in front of me.” 

Harry felt his face redden as Moody’s eyes (both of 
them) looked into his own. He could feel everyone else 
looking around at him too. Harry stared at the blank 
blackboard as though fascinated by it, but not really 
seeing it at all. ... 
