near-fatal attacks upon fellow students, fled the 
country hours after the girl’s death, and Albus (out of 
shame or fear?) never saw him again, not until forced 
to do so by the pleas of the Wizarding world. 

Neither Dumbledore nor Grindelwald ever seems to 
have referred to this brief boyhood friendship in later 
life. However, there can be no doubt that Dumbledore 
delayed, for some five years of turmoil, fatalities, and 
disappearances, his attack upon Gellert Grindelwald. 
Was it lingering affection for the man or fear of 
exposure as his once best friend that caused 
Dumbledore to hesitate? Was it only reluctantly that 
Dumbledore set out to capture the man he was once 
so delighted he had met? 

And how did the mysterious Ariana die? Was she the 
inadvertent victim of some Dark rite? Did she stumble 
across something she ought not to have done, as the 
two young men sat practicing for their attempt at 
glory and domination? Is it possible that Ariana 
Dumbledore was the first person to die “for the 
greater good”? 



Page | 404 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The chapter ended here and Harry looked up. 
Hermione had reached the bottom of the page before 
him. She tugged the book out of Harry’s hands, 
looking a little alarmed by his expression, and closed 
it without looking at it, as though hiding something 
indecent. 

“Harry — ” 

But he shook his head. Some inner certainty had 
crashed down inside him; it was exactly as he had felt 
after Ron left. He had trusted Dumbledore, believed 
him the embodiment of goodness and wisdom. All was 
ashes: How much more could he lose? Ron, 
Dumbledore, the phoenix wand ... 

“Harry.” She seemed to have heard his thoughts. 
“Listen to me. It — it doesn’t make very nice reading 



“Yeah, you could say that — ” 

“ — but don’t forget, Harry, this is Rita Skeeter 
writing.” 

“You did read that letter to Grindelwald, didn’t you?” 

“Yes, I — I did.” She hesitated, looking upset, cradling 
her tea in her cold hands. “I think that’s the worst bit. 
I know Bathilda thought it was all just talk, but ‘For 
the Greater Good’ became Grindelwald ’s slogan, his 
justification for all the atrocities he committed later. 
And . . . from that ... it looks like Dumbledore gave him 
the idea. They say ‘For the Greater Good’ was even 
carved over the entrance to Nurmengard.” 

“What’s Nurmengard?” 



Page | 405 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“The prison Grindelwald had built to hold his 
opponents. He ended up in there himself, once 
Dumbledore had caught him. Anyway, it’s — it’s an 
awful thought that Dumbledore ’s ideas helped 
Grindelwald rise to power. But on the other hand, 
even Rita can’t pretend that they knew each other for 
more than a few months one summer when they were 
both really young, and — ” 

“I thought you’d say that,” said Harry. He did not 
want to let his anger spill out at her, but it was hard 
to keep his voice steady. “I thought you’d say They 
were young. ’ They were the same age as we are now. 
And here we are, risking our lives to fight the Dark 
Arts, and there he was, in a huddle with his new best 
friend, plotting their rise to power over the Muggles.” 

His temper would not remain in check much longer: 
He stood up and walked around, trying to work some 
of it off. 

“I’m not trying to defend what Dumbledore wrote,” 
said Hermione. “All that ‘right to rule’ rubbish, it’s 
‘Magic Is Might’ all over again. But Harry, his mother 
had just died, he was stuck alone in the house — ” 

“Alone? He wasn’t alone! He had his brother and 
sister for company, his Squib sister he was keeping 
locked up — ” 

“I don’t believe it,” said Hermione. She stood up too. 
“Whatever was wrong with that girl, I don’t think she 
was a Squib. The Dumbledore we knew would never, 
ever have allowed — ” 

“The Dumbledore we thought we knew didn’t want to 
conquer Muggles by force!” Harry shouted, his voice 
echoing across the empty hilltop, and several 



Page | 406 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




blackbirds rose into the air, squawking and spiraling 
against the pearly sky. 

“He changed, Harry, he changed! It’s as simple as 
that! Maybe he did believe these things when he was 
seventeen, but the whole of the rest of his life was 
devoted to fighting the Dark Arts! Dumbledore was 
the one who stopped Grindelwald, the one who always 
voted for Muggle protection and Muggle-born rights, 
who fought You-Know-Who from the start, and who 
died trying to bring him down!” 

Rita’s book lay on the ground between them, so that 
the face of Albus Dumbledore smiled dolefully at 
both. 

“Harry, I’m sorry, but I think the real reason you’re so 
angry is that Dumbledore never told you any of this 
himself.” 

“Maybe I am!” Harry bellowed, and he flung his arms 
over his head, hardly knowing whether he was trying 
to hold in his anger or protect himself from the weight 
of his own disillusionment. “Look what he asked from 
me, Hermione! Risk your life, Harry! And again! And 
again! And don’t expect me to explain everything, just 
trust me blindly, trust that I know what I’m doing, 
trust me even though I don’t trust you! Never the 
whole truth! Never!” 

His voice cracked with the strain, and they stood 
looking at each other in the whiteness and the 
emptiness, and Harry felt they were as insignificant 
as insects beneath that wide sky. 

“He loved you,” Hermione whispered. “I know he loved 
you.” 



Harry dropped his arms. 

Page | 407 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t know who he loved, Hermione, but it was 
never me. This isn’t love, the mess he’s left me in. He 
shared a damn sight more of what he was really 
thinking with Gellert Grindelwald than he ever shared 
with me.” 

Harry picked up Hermione ’s wand, which he had 
dropped in the snow, and sat back down in the 
entrance of the tent. 

“Thanks for the tea. I’ll finish the watch. You get back 
in the warm.” 

She hesitated, but recognized the dismissal. She 
picked up the book and then walked back past him 
into the tent, but as she did so, she brushed the top 
of his head lightly with her hand. He closed his eyes 
at her touch, and hated himself for wishing that what 
she said was true: that Dumbledore had really cared. 



Page | 408 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 








THE SILVER DOE 

It was snowing by the time Hermione took over the 
watch at midnight. Harry’s dreams were confused and 
disturbing: Nagini wove in and out of them, first 
through a gigantic, cracked ring, then through a 
wreath of Christmas roses. He woke repeatedly, 
panicky, convinced that somebody had called out to 
him in the distance, imagining that the wind 
whipping around the tent was footsteps or voices. 

Finally he got up in the darkness and joined 
Hermione, who was huddled in the entrance to the 
tent reading A History of Magic by the light of her 
wand. The snow was still falling thickly, and she 
greeted with relief his suggestion of packing up early 
and moving on. 

“Well go somewhere more sheltered,” she agreed, 
shivering as she pulled on a sweatshirt over her 
pajamas. “I kept thinking I could hear people moving 
outside. I even thought I saw somebody once or 
twice.” 



Page | 409 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Harry paused in the act of pulling on a jumper and 
glanced at the silent, motionless Sneakoscope on the 
table. 

“I’m sure I imagined it,” said Hermione, looking 
nervous. “The snow in the dark, it plays tricks on 
your eyes. ... But perhaps we ought to Disapparate 
under the Invisibility Cloak, just in case?” 

Half an hour later, with the tent packed, Harry 
wearing the Horcrux, and Hermione clutching the 
beaded bag, they Disapparated. The usual tightness 
engulfed them; Harry’s feet parted company with the 
snowy ground, then slammed hard onto what felt like 
frozen earth covered with leaves. 

“Where are we?” he asked, peering around at a fresh 
mass of trees as Hermione opened the beaded bag 
and began tugging out tent poles. 

“The Forest of Dean,” she said. “I came camping here 
once with my mum and dad.” 

Here too snow lay on the trees all around and it was 
bitterly cold, but they were at least protected from the 
wind. They spent most of the day inside the tent, 
huddled for warmth around the useful bright blue 
flames that Hermione was so adept at producing, and 
which could be scooped up and carried around in a 
jar. Harry felt as though he was recuperating from 
some brief but severe illness, an impression 
reinforced by Hermione ’s solicitousness. That 
afternoon fresh flakes drifted down upon them, so 
that even their sheltered clearing had a fresh dusting 
of powdery snow. 

After two nights of little sleep, Harry’s senses seemed 
more alert than usual. Their escape from Godric’s 
Hollow had been so narrow that Voldemort seemed 

Page | 410 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




somehow closer than before, more threatening. As 
darkness drew in again Harry refused Hermione’s 
offer to keep watch and told her to go to bed. 

Harry moved an old cushion into the tent mouth and 
sat down, wearing all the sweaters he owned but even 
so, still shivery. The darkness deepened with the 
passing hours until it was virtually impenetrable. He 
was on the point of taking out the Marauder’s Map, so 
as to watch Ginny’s dot for a while, before he 
remembered that it was the Christmas holidays and 
that she would be back at the Burrow. 

Every tiny movement seemed magnified in the 
vastness of the forest. Harry knew that it must be full 
of living creatures, but he wished they would all 
remain still and silent so that he could separate their 
innocent scurryings and prowlings from noises that 
might proclaim other, sinister movements. He 
remembered the sound of a cloak slithering over dead 
leaves many years ago, and at once thought he heard 
it again before mentally shaking himself. Their 
protective enchantments had worked for weeks; why 
should they break now? And yet he could not throw 
off the feeling that something was different tonight. 

Several times he jerked upright, his neck aching 
because he had fallen asleep, slumped at an awkward 
angle against the side of the tent. The night reached 
such a depth of velvety blackness that he might have 
been suspended in limbo between Disapparition and 
Apparition. He had just held up a hand in front of his 
face to see whether he could make out his fingers 
when it happened. 

A bright silver light appeared right ahead of him, 
moving through the trees. Whatever the source, it was 
moving soundlessly. The light seemed simply to drift 
toward him. 

Page | 411 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He jumped to his feet, his voice frozen in his throat, 
and raised Hermione’s wand. He screwed up his eyes 
as the light became blinding, the trees in front of it 
pitch-black in silhouette, and still the thing came 
closer. ... 

And then the source of the light stepped out from 
behind an oak. It was a silver- white doe, moon-bright 
and dazzling, picking her way over the ground, still 
silent, and leaving no hoofprints in the fine powdering 
of snow. She stepped toward him, her beautiful head 
with its wide, long-lashed eyes held high. 

Harry stared at the creature, filled with wonder, not 
at her strangeness, but at her inexplicable familiarity. 
He felt that he had been waiting for her to come, but 
that he had forgotten, until this moment, that they 
had arranged to meet. His impulse to shout for 
Hermione, which had been so strong a moment ago, 
had gone. He knew, he would have staked his life on 
it, that she had come for him, and him alone. 

They gazed at each other for several long moments 
and then she turned and walked away. 

“No,” he said, and his voice was cracked with lack of 
use. “Come back!” 

She continued to step deliberately through the trees, 
and soon her brightness was striped by their thick 
black trunks. For one trembling second he hesitated. 
Caution murmured it could be a trick, a lure, a trap. 
But instinct, overwhelming instinct, told him that this 
was not Dark Magic. He set off in pursuit. 

Snow crunched beneath his feet, but the doe made no 
noise as she passed through the trees, for she was 
nothing but light. Deeper and deeper into the forest 
she led him, and Harry walked quickly, sure that 

Page | 412 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




when she stopped, she would allow him to approach 
her properly. And then she would speak and the voice 
would tell him what he needed to know. 

At last, she came to a halt. She turned her beautiful 
head toward him once more, and he broke into a run, 
a question burning in him, but as he opened his lips 
to ask it, she vanished. 

Though the darkness had swallowed her whole, her 
burnished image was still imprinted on his retinas; it 
obscured his vision, brightening when he lowered his 
eyelids, disorienting him. Now fear came: Her 
presence had meant safety. 

“Lumos\” he whispered, and the wand-tip ignited. 

The imprint of the doe faded away with every blink of 
his eyes as he stood there, listening to the sounds of 
the forest, to distant crackles of twigs, soft swishes of 
snow. Was he about to be attacked? Had she enticed 
him into an ambush? Was he imagining that 
somebody stood beyond the reach of the wandlight, 
watching him? 

He held the wand higher. Nobody ran out at him, no 
flash of green light burst from behind a tree. Why, 
then, had she led him to this spot? 

Something gleamed in the light of the wand, and 
Harry spun about, but all that was there was a small, 
frozen pool, its cracked black surface glittering as he 
raised the wand higher to examine it. 

He moved forward rather cautiously and looked down. 
The ice reflected his distorted shadow and the beam 
of wandlight, but deep below the thick, misty gray 
carapace, something else glinted. A great silver cross 

Page | 413 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




His heart skipped into his mouth: He dropped to his 
knees at the pool’s edge and angled the wand so as to 
flood the bottom of the pool with as much light as 
possible. A glint of deep red ... It was a sword with 
glittering rubies in its hilt. ... The sword of Gryffindor 
was lying at the bottom of the forest pool. 

Barely breathing, he stared down at it. How was this 
possible? How could it have come to be lying in a 
forest pool, this close to the place where they were 
camping? Had some unknown magic drawn Hermione 
to this spot, or was the doe, which he had taken to be 
a Patronus, some kind of guardian of the pool? Or 
had the sword been put into the pool after they had 
arrived, precisely because they were here? In which 
case, where was the person who had wanted to pass 
it to Harry? Again he directed the wand at the 
surrounding trees and bushes, searching for a 
human outline, for the glint of an eye, but he could 
not see anyone there. All the same, a little more fear 
leavened his exhilaration as he returned his attention 
to the sword reposing upon the bottom of the frozen 
pool. 

He pointed the wand at the silvery shape and 
murmured, “Accio Sword.” 

It did not stir. He had not expected it to. If it had been 
that easy, the sword would have lain on the ground 
for him to pick up, not in the depths of a frozen pool. 
He set off around the circle of ice, thinking hard 
about the last time the sword had delivered itself to 
him. He had been in terrible danger then, and had 
asked for help. 

“Help,” he murmured, but the sword remained upon 
the pool bottom, indifferent, motionless. 



Page | 414 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




What was it, Harry asked himself (walking again), 
that Dumbledore had told him the last time he had 
retrieved the sword? Only a true Gryffindor could have 
pulled that out of the hat. And what were the qualities 
that defined a Gryffindor? A small voice inside Harry’s 
head answered him: Their daring, nerve, and chivalry 
set Gryffindors apart. 

Harry stopped walking and let out a long sigh, his 
smoky breath dispersing rapidly upon the frozen air. 
He knew what he had to do. If he was honest with 
himself, he had thought it might come to this from 
the moment he had spotted the sword through the 
ice. 

He glanced around at the surrounding trees again, 
but was convinced now that nobody was going to 
attack him. They had had their chance as he walked 
alone through the forest, had had plenty of 
opportunity as he examined the pool. The only reason 
to delay at this point was because the immediate 
prospect was so deeply uninviting. 

With fumbling fingers Harry started to remove his 
many layers of clothing. Where “chivalry” entered into 
this, he thought ruefully, he was not entirely sure, 
unless it counted as chivalrous that he was not 
calling for Hermione to do it in his stead. 

An owl hooted somewhere as he stripped off, and he 
thought with a pang of Hedwig. He was shivering 
now, his teeth chattering horribly, and yet he 
continued to strip off until at last he stood there in 
his underwear, barefooted in the snow. He placed the 
pouch containing his wand, his mother’s letter, the 
shard of Sirius’s mirror, and the old Snitch on top of 
his clothes, then he pointed Hermione’s wand at the 
ice. 



Page | 415 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Diffindo.” 



It cracked with a sound like a bullet in the silence: 

The surface of the pool broke and chunks of dark ice 
rocked on the ruffled water. As far as Harry could 
judge, it was not deep, but to retrieve the sword he 
would have to submerge himself completely. 

Contemplating the task ahead would not make it 
easier or the water warmer. He stepped to the pool’s 
edge and placed Hermione’s wand on the ground, still 
lit. Then, trying not to imagine how much colder he 
was about to become or how violently he would soon 
be shivering, he jumped. 

Every pore of his body screamed in protest: The very 
air in his lungs seemed to freeze solid as he was 
submerged to his shoulders in the frozen water. He 
could hardly breathe; trembling so violently the water 
lapped over the edges of the pool, he felt for the blade 
with his numb feet. He only wanted to dive once. 

Harry put off the moment of total submersion from 
second to second, gasping and shaking, until he told 
himself that it must be done, gathered all his courage, 
and dived. 

The cold was agony: It attacked him like fire. His 
brain itself seemed to have frozen as he pushed 
through the dark water to the bottom and reached 
out, groping for the sword. His fingers closed around 
the hilt; he pulled it upward. 

Then something closed tight around his neck. He 
thought of water weeds, though nothing had brushed 
him as he dived, and raised his empty hand to free 
himself. It was not weed: The chain of the Horcrux 
had tightened and was slowly constricting his 
windpipe. 

Page | 416 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




Harry kicked out wildly, trying to push himself back 
to the surface, but merely propelled himself into the 
rocky side of the pool. Thrashing, suffocating, he 
scrabbled at the strangling chain, his frozen fingers 
unable to loosen it, and now little lights were popping 
inside his head, and he was going to drown, there was 
nothing left, nothing he could do, and the arms that 
closed around his chest were surely Death’s. ... 

Choking and retching, soaking and colder than he 
had ever been in his life, he came to facedown in the 
snow. Somewhere close by, another person was 
panting and coughing and staggering around. 
Hermione had come again, as she had come when the 
snake attacked. ... Yet it did not sound like her, not 
with those deep coughs, not judging by the weight of 
the footsteps. ... 

Harry had no strength to lift his head and see his 
savior’s identity. All he could do was raise a shaking 
hand to his throat and feel the place where the locket 
had cut tightly into his flesh. It was gone: Someone 
had cut him free. Then a panting voice spoke from 
over his head. 

“Are — you — mental?” 

Nothing but the shock of hearing that voice could 
have given Harry the strength to get up. Shivering 
violently, he staggered to his feet. There before him 
stood Ron, fully dressed but drenched to the skin, his 
hair plastered to his face, the sword of Gryffindor in 
one hand and the Horcrux dangling from its broken 
chain in the other. 

“Why the hell,” panted Ron, holding up the Horcrux, 
which swung backward and forward on its shortened 
chain in some parody of hypnosis, “didn’t you take 
this thing off before you dived?” 

Page | 417 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could not answer. The silver doe was nothing, 
nothing compared with Ron’s reappearance; he could 
not believe it. Shuddering with cold, he caught up the 
pile of clothes still lying at the water’s edge and began 
to pull them on. As he dragged sweater after sweater 
over his head, Harry stared at Ron, half expecting him 
to have disappeared every time he lost sight of him, 
and yet he had to be real: He had just dived into the 
pool, he had saved Harry’s life. 

“It was y-you?” Harry said at last, his teeth 
chattering, his voice weaker than usual due to his 
near-strangulation. 

“Well, yeah,” said Ron, looking slightly confused. 
“Y-you cast that doe?” 

“What? No, of course not! I thought it was you doing 
it!” 



“My Patronus is a stag.” 

“Oh yeah. I thought it looked different. No antlers.” 

Harry put Hagrid’s pouch back around his neck, 
pulled on a final sweater, stooped to pick up 
Hermione’s wand, and faced Ron again. 

“How come you’re here?” 

Apparently Ron had hoped that this point would come 
up later, if at all. 

“Well, I’ve — you know — I’ve come back. If — ” He 
cleared his throat. “You know. You still want me.” 

There was a pause, in which the subject of Ron’s 
departure seemed to rise like a wall between them. 

Page | 418 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Yet he was here. He had returned. He had just saved 
Harry’s life. 

Ron looked down at his hands. He seemed 
momentarily surprised to see the things he was 
holding. 

“Oh yeah, I got it out,” he said, rather unnecessarily, 
holding up the sword for Harry’s inspection. “That’s 
why you jumped in, right?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “But I don’t understand. How did 
you get here? How did you find us?” 

“Long story,” said Ron. “I’ve been looking for you for 
hours, it’s a big forest, isn’t it? And I was just 
thinking I’d have to kip under a tree and wait for 
morning when I saw that deer coming and you 
following.” 

“You didn’t see anyone else?” 

“No,” said Ron. “I — ” 

But he hesitated, glancing at two trees growing close 
together some yards away. 

“I did think I saw something move over there, but I 
was running to the pool at the time, because you’d 
gone in and you hadn’t come up, so I wasn’t going to 
make a detour to — hey!” 

Harry was already hurrying to the place Ron had 
indicated. The two oaks grew close together; there 
was a gap of only a few inches between the trunks at 
eye level, an ideal place to see but not be seen. The 
ground around the roots, however, was free of snow, 
and Harry could see no sign of footprints. He walked 



Page | 419 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




back to where Ron stood waiting, still holding the 
sword and the Horcrux. 



“Anything there?” Ron asked. 

“No,” said Harry. 

“So how did the sword get in that pool?” 

“Whoever cast the Patronus must have put it there.” 

They both looked at the ornate silver sword, its rubied 
hilt glinting a little in the light from Hermione’s wand. 

“You reckon this is the real one?” asked Ron. 

“One way to find out, isn’t there?” said Harry. 

The Horcrux was still swinging from Ron’s hand. The 
locket was twitching slightly. Harry knew that the 
thing inside it was agitated again. It had sensed the 
presence of the sword and had tried to kill Harry 
rather than let him possess it. Now was not the time 
for long discussions; now was the moment to destroy 
the locket once and for all. Harry looked around, 
holding Hermione’s wand high, and saw the place: a 
flattish rock lying in the shadow of a sycamore tree. 

“Come here,” he said, and he led the way, brushed 
snow from the rock’s surface, and held out his hand 
for the Horcrux. When Ron offered the sword, 
however, Harry shook his head. 

“No, you should do it.” 

“Me?” said Ron, looking shocked. “Why?” 

“Because you got the sword out of the pool. I think it’s 
supposed to be you.” 

Page | 420 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He was not being kind or generous. As certainly as he 
had known that the doe was benign, he knew that 
Ron had to be the one to wield the sword. 

Dumbledore had at least taught Harry something 
about certain kinds of magic, of the incalculable 
power of certain acts. 

“I’m going to open it,” said Harry, “and you stab it. 
Straightaway, okay? Because whatever’s in there will 
put up a fight. The bit of Riddle in the diary tried to 
kill me.” 

“How are you going to open it?” asked Ron. He looked 
terrified. 

“I’m going to ask it to open, using Parseltongue,” said 
Harry. The answer came so readily to his lips that he 
thought that he had always known it deep down: 
Perhaps it had taken his recent encounter with Nagini 
to make him realize it. He looked at the serpentine S, 
inlaid with glittering green stones: It was easy to 
visualize it as a minuscule snake, curled upon the 
cold rock. 

“No!” said Ron. “No, don’t open it! I’m serious!” 

“Why not?” asked Harry. “Let’s get rid of the damn 
thing, it’s been months — ” 

“I can’t, Harry, I’m serious — you do it — ” 

“But why?” 

“Because that thing’s bad for me!” said Ron, backing 
away from the locket on the rock. “I can’t handle it! 

I’m not making excuses, Harry, for what I was like, 
but it affects me worse than it affected you and 
Hermione, it made me think stuff — stuff I was 
thinking anyway, but it made everything worse, I 
Page | 421 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




can’t explain it, and then I’d take it off and I’d get my 
head on straight again, and then I’d have to put the 
effing thing back on — I can’t do it, Harry!” 

He had backed away, the sword dragging at his side, 
shaking his head. 

“You can do it,” said Harry, “you can! You’ve just got 
the sword, I know it’s supposed to be you who uses it. 
Please, just get rid of it, Ron.” 

The sound of his name seemed to act like a stimulant. 
Ron swallowed, then, still breathing hard through his 
long nose, moved back toward the rock. 

“Tell me when,” he croaked. 

“On three,” said Harry, looking back down at the 
locket and narrowing his eyes, concentrating on the 
letter S, imagining a serpent, while the contents of the 
locket rattled like a trapped cockroach. It would have 
been easy to pity it, except that the cut around 
Harry’s neck still burned. 

“One ... two ... three ... open.” 

The last word came as a hiss and a snarl and the 
golden doors of the locket swung wide with a little 
click. 

Behind both of the glass windows within blinked a 
living eye, dark and handsome as Tom Riddle’s eyes 
had been before he turned them scarlet and slit- 
pupiled. 

“Stab,” said Harry, holding the locket steady on the 
rock. 



Page | 422 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron raised the sword in his shaking hands: The point 
dangled over the frantically swiveling eyes, and Harry 
gripped the locket tightly, bracing himself, already 
imagining blood pouring from the empty windows. 

Then a voice hissed from out of the Horcrux. 

“I have seen your heart, and it is mine.” 

“Don’t listen to it!” Harry said harshly. “Stab it!” 

“I have seen your dreams, Ronald Weasley, and I have 
seen your fears. All you desire is possible, but all that 
you dread is also possible. ...” 

“Stab!” shouted Harry; his voice echoed off the 
surrounding trees, the sword point trembled, and Ron 
gazed down into Riddle’s eyes. 

“ Least loved, always, by the mother who craved a 
daughter . . . Least loved, now, by the girl who prefers 
your friend . . . Second best, always, eternally 
overshadowed ...” 

“Ron, stab it now!” Harry bellowed: He could feel the 
locket quivering in his grip and was scared of what 
was coming. Ron raised the sword still higher, and as 
he did so, Riddle’s eyes gleamed scarlet. 

Out of the locket’s two windows, out of the eyes, there 
bloomed, like two grotesque bubbles, the heads of 
Harry and Hermione, weirdly distorted. 

Ron yelled in shock and backed away as the figures 
blossomed out of the locket, first chests, then waists, 
then legs, until they stood in the locket, side by side 
like trees with a common root, swaying over Ron and 
the real Harry, who had snatched his fingers away 
from the locket as it burned, suddenly, white-hot. 
Page | 423 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron!” he shouted, but the Riddle-Harry was now 
speaking with Voldemort’s voice and Ron was gazing, 
mesmerized, into its face. 

“ Why return? We were better without you, happier 
without you, glad of your absence. . . . We laughed at 
your stupidity, your cowardice, your presumption — ” 

“ Presumption?’ echoed the Riddle-Hermione, who was 
more beautiful and yet more terrible than the real 
Hermione: She swayed, cackling, before Ron, who 
looked horrified yet transfixed, the sword hanging 
pointlessly at his side. “ Who could look at you, who 
would ever look at you, beside Harry Potter? What 
have you ever done, compared with the Chosen One? 
What are you, compared with the Boy Who Lived?” 

“Ron, stab it, STAB IT!” Harry yelled, but Ron did not 
move: His eyes were wide, and the Riddle-Harry and 
the Riddle-Hermione were reflected in them, their hair 
swirling like flames, their eyes shining red, their 
voices lifted in an evil duet. 

“ Your mother confessed,” sneered Riddle-Harry, while 
Riddle-Hermione jeered, “that she would have 
preferred me as a son, would be glad to exchange ...” 

“Who wouldn’t prefer him, what woman would take 
you, you are nothing, nothing, nothing to him,” crooned 
Riddle-Hermione, and she stretched like a snake and 
entwined herself around Riddle-Harry, wrapping him 
in a close embrace: Their lips met. 

On the ground in front of them, Ron’s face filled with 
anguish. He raised the sword high, his arms shaking. 

“Do it, Ron!” Harry yelled. 



Page | 424 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron looked toward him, and Harry thought he saw a 
trace of scarlet in his eyes. 

“Ron — ?” 

The sword flashed, plunged: Harry threw himself out 
of the way, there was a clang of metal and a long, 
drawn-out scream. Harry whirled around, slipping in 
the snow, wand held ready to defend himself: but 
there was nothing to fight. 

The monstrous versions of himself and Hermione 
were gone: There was only Ron, standing there with 
the sword held slackly in his hand, looking down at 
the shattered remains of the locket on the flat rock. 

Slowly, Harry walked back to him, hardly knowing 
what to say or do. Ron was breathing heavily: His 
eyes were no longer red at all, but their normal blue; 
they were also wet. 

Harry stooped, pretending he had not seen, and 
picked up the broken Horcrux. Ron had pierced the 
glass in both windows: Riddle’s eyes were gone, and 
the stained silk lining of the locket was smoking 
slightly. The thing that had lived in the Horcrux had 
vanished; torturing Ron had been its final act. 

The sword clanged as Ron dropped it. He had sunk to 
his knees, his head in his arms. He was shaking, but 
not, Harry realized, from cold. Harry crammed the 
broken locket into his pocket, knelt down beside Ron, 
and placed a hand cautiously on his shoulder. He 
took it as a good sign that Ron did not throw it off. 

“After you left,” he said in a low voice, grateful for the 
fact that Ron’s face was hidden, “she cried for a week. 
Probably longer, only she didn’t want me to see. There 



Page | 425 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




were loads of nights when we never even spoke to 
each other. With you gone ...” 

He could not finish; it was only now that Ron was 
here again that Harry fully realized how much his 
absence had cost them. 

“She’s like my sister,” he went on. “I love her like a 
sister and I reckon she feels the same way about me. 
It’s always been like that. I thought you knew.” 

Ron did not respond, but turned his face away from 
Harry and wiped his nose noisily on his sleeve. Harry 
got to his feet again and walked to where Ron’s 
enormous rucksack lay yards away, discarded as Ron 
had run toward the pool to save Harry from drowning. 
He hoisted it onto his own back and walked back to 
Ron, who clambered to his feet as Harry approached, 
eyes bloodshot but otherwise composed. 

“I’m sorry,” he said in a thick voice. “I’m sorry I left. I 
know I was a — a — ” 

He looked around at the darkness, as if hoping a bad 
enough word would swoop down upon him and claim 
him. 

“You’ve sort of made up for it tonight,” said Harry. 
“Getting the sword. Finishing off the Horcrux. Saving 
my life.” 

“That makes me sound a lot cooler than I was,” Ron 
mumbled. 

“Stuff like that always sounds cooler than it really 
was,” said Harry. “I’ve been trying to tell you that for 
years.” 



Page | 426 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 
