magic, my father . . . 

“He left her and returned to his Muggle parents before 
I was even born, Potter, and she died giving birth to 
me, leaving me to be raised in a Muggle orphanage ... 
but I vowed to find him ... I revenged myself upon 
him, that fool who gave me his name . . . Tom Riddle. 



Still he paced, his red eyes darting from grave to 
grave. 



Page | 714 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Listen to me, reliving family history ...” he said 
quietly, “why, I am growing quite sentimental. ... But 
look, Harry! My true family returns. ...” 

The air was suddenly full of the swishing of cloaks. 
Between graves, behind the yew tree, in every 
shadowy space, wizards were Apparating. All of them 
were hooded and masked. And one by one they moved 
forward . . . slowly, cautiously, as though they could 
hardly believe their eyes. Voldemort stood in silence, 
waiting for them. Then one of the Death Eaters fell to 
his knees, crawled toward Voldemort, and kissed the 
hem of his black robes. 

“Master ... Master ...” he murmured. 

The Death Eaters behind him did the same; each of 
them approaching Voldemort on his knees and 
kissing his robes, before backing away and standing 
up, forming a silent circle, which enclosed Tom 
Riddle’s grave, Harry, Voldemort, and the sobbing and 
twitching heap that was Wormtail. Yet they left gaps 
in the circle, as though waiting for more people. 
Voldemort, however, did not seem to expect more. He 
looked around at the hooded faces, and though there 
was no wind, a rustling seemed to run around the 
circle, as though it had shivered. 

“Welcome, Death Eaters,” said Voldemort quietly. 
“Thirteen years ... thirteen years since last we met. 

Yet you answer my call as though it were yesterday. 

... We are still united under the Dark Mark, then! Or 
are we?” 

He put back his terrible face and sniffed, his slit-like 
nostrils widening. 

“I smell guilt,” he said. “There is a stench of guilt 
upon the air.” 

Page | 715 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




A second shiver ran around the circle, as though each 
member of it longed, but did not dare, to step back 
from him. 

“I see you all, whole and healthy, with your powers 
intact — such prompt appearances! — and I ask 
myself . . . why did this band of wizards never come to 
the aid of their master, to whom they swore eternal 
loyalty?” 

No one spoke. No one moved except Wormtail, who 
was upon the ground, still sobbing over his bleeding 
arm. 

“And I answer myself,” whispered Voldemort, “they 
must have believed me broken, they thought I was 
gone. They slipped back among my enemies, and they 
pleaded innocence, and ignorance, and bewitchment. 



“And then I ask myself, but how could they have 
believed I would not rise again? They, who knew the 
steps I took, long ago, to guard myself against mortal 
death? They, who had seen proofs of the immensity of 
my power in the times when I was mightier than any 
wizard living? 

“And I answer myself, perhaps they believed a still 
greater power could exist, one that could vanquish 
even Lord Voldemort ... perhaps they now pay 
allegiance to another . . . perhaps that champion of 
commoners, of Mudbloods and Muggles, Albus 
Dumbledore?” 

At the mention of Dumbledore’s name, the members 
of the circle stirred, and some muttered and shook 
their heads. Voldemort ignored them. 



Page | 716 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It is a disappointment to me ... I confess myself 
disappointed. ...” 

One of the men suddenly flung himself forward, 
breaking the circle. Trembling from head to foot, he 
collapsed at Voldemort’s feet. 

“Master!” he shrieked, “Master, forgive me! Forgive us 
all!” 

Voldemort began to laugh. He raised his wand. 

“ Cruciol ” 

The Death Eater on the ground writhed and shrieked; 
Harry was sure the sound must carry to the houses 
around. ... Let the police come, he thought desperately 
... anyone ... anything ... 



Voldemort raised his wand. The tortured Death Eater 
lay flat upon the ground, gasping. 

“Get up, Avery,” said Voldemort softly. “Stand up. You 
ask for forgiveness? I do not forgive. I do not forget. 
Thirteen long years ... I want thirteen years’ 
repayment before I forgive you. Wormtail here has 
paid some of his debt already, have you not, 
Wormtail?” 

He looked down at Wormtail, who continued to sob. 

“You returned to me, not out of loyalty, but out of fear 
of your old friends. You deserve this pain, Wormtail. 
You know that, don’t you?” 

“Yes, Master,” moaned Wormtail, “please, Master ... 
please ...” 



Page | 717 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yet you helped return me to my body,” said 
Voldemort coolly, watching Wormtail sob on the 
ground. “Worthless and traitorous as you are, you 
helped me . . . and Lord Voldemort rewards his 
helpers. ...” 

Voldemort raised his wand again and whirled it 
through the air. A streak of what looked like molten 
silver hung shining in the wand’s wake. Momentarily 
shapeless, it writhed and then formed itself into a 
gleaming replica of a human hand, bright as 
moonlight, which soared downward and fixed itself 
upon Wormtail’s bleeding wrist. 

Wormtail’s sobbing stopped abruptly. His breathing 
harsh and ragged, he raised his head and stared in 
disbelief at the silver hand, now attached seamlessly 
to his arm, as though he were wearing a dazzling 
glove. He flexed the shining fingers, then, trembling, 
picked up a small twig on the ground and crushed it 
into powder. 

“My Lord,” he whispered. “Master ... it is beautiful ... 
thank you ... thank you. ...” 

He scrambled forward on his knees and kissed the 
hem of Voldemort’s robes. 

“May your loyalty never waver again, Wormtail,” said 
Voldemort. 

“No, my Lord ... never, my Lord ...” 

Wormtail stood up and took his place in the circle, 
staring at his powerful new hand, his face still 
shining with tears. Voldemort now approached the 
man on Wormtail’s right. 



Page | 718 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lucius, my slippery friend,” he whispered, halting 
before him. “I am told that you have not renounced 
the old ways, though to the world you present a 
respectable face. You are still ready to take the lead in 
a spot of Muggle-torture, I believe? Yet you never tried 
to find me, Lucius. ... Your exploits at the Quidditch 
World Cup were fun, I daresay ... but might not your 
energies have been better directed toward finding and 
aiding your master?” 

“My Lord, I was constantly on the alert,” came Lucius 
Malfoy’s voice swiftly from beneath the hood. “Had 
there been any sign from you, any whisper of your 
whereabouts, I would have been at your side 
immediately, nothing could have prevented me — ” 

“And yet you ran from my Mark, when a faithful 
Death Eater sent it into the sky last summer?” said 
Voldemort lazily, and Mr. Malfoy stopped talking 
abruptly. “Yes, I know all about that, Lucius. ... You 
have disappointed me. ... I expect more faithful 
service in the future.” 

“Of course, my Lord, of course. ... You are merciful, 
thank you. ...” 

Voldemort moved on, and stopped, staring at the 
space — large enough for two people — that 
separated Malfoy and the next man. 

“The Lestranges should stand here,” said Voldemort 
quietly. “But they are entombed in Azkaban. They 
were faithful. They went to Azkaban rather than 
renounce me. ... When Azkaban is broken open, the 
Lestranges will be honored beyond their dreams. The 
dementors will join us ... they are our natural allies ... 
we will recall the banished giants ... I shall have all 
my devoted servants returned to me, and an army of 
creatures whom all fear. ...” 

Page | 719 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He walked on. Some of the Death Eaters he passed in 
silence, but he paused before others and spoke to 
them. 

“Macnair . . . destroying dangerous beasts for the 
Ministry of Magic now, Wormtail tells me? You shall 
have better victims than that soon, Macnair. Lord 
Voldemort will provide. ...” 

“Thank you, Master ... thank you,” murmured 
Macnair. 

“And here” — Voldemort moved on to the two largest 
hooded figures — “we have Crabbe . . . you will do 
better this time, will you not, Crabbe? And you, 
Goyle?” 

They bowed clumsily, muttering dully. 

“Yes, Master ...” 

“We will, Master. ...” 

“The same goes for you, Nott,” said Voldemort quietly 
as he walked past a stooped figure in Mr. Goyle ’s 
shadow. 

“My Lord, I prostrate myself before you, I am your 
most faithful — ” 

“That will do,” said Voldemort. 

He had reached the largest gap of all, and he stood 
surveying it with his blank, red eyes, as though he 
could see people standing there. 

“And here we have six missing Death Eaters . . . three 
dead in my service. One, too cowardly to return ... he 
will pay. One, who I believe has left me forever ... he 

Page | 720 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




will be killed, of course ... and one, who remains my 
most faithful servant, and who has already reentered 
my service.” 

The Death Eaters stirred, and Harry saw their eyes 
dart sideways at one another through their masks. 

“He is at Hogwarts, that faithful servant, and it was 
through his efforts that our young friend arrived here 
tonight. ... 

“Yes,” said Voldemort, a grin curling his lipless mouth 
as the eyes of the circle flashed in Harry’s direction. 
“Harry Potter has kindly joined us for my rebirthing 
party. One might go so far as to call him my guest of 
honor.” 

There was a silence. Then the Death Eater to the right 
of Wormtail stepped forward, and Lucius Malfoy’s 
voice spoke from under the mask. 

“Master, we crave to know . . . we beg you to tell us . . . 
how you have achieved this . . . this miracle . . . how 
you managed to return to us. ...” 

“Ah, what a story it is, Lucius,” said Voldemort. “And 
it begins — and ends — with my young friend here.” 

He walked lazily over to stand next to Harry, so that 
the eyes of the whole circle were upon the two of 
them. The snake continued to circle. 

“You know, of course, that they have called this boy 
my downfall?” Voldemort said softly, his red eyes 
upon Harry, whose scar began to burn so fiercely that 
he almost screamed in agony. “You all know that on 
the night I lost my powers and my body, I tried to kill 
him. His mother died in the attempt to save him — 
and unwittingly provided him with a protection I 
Page | 721 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




admit I had not foreseen. ... I could not touch the 
boy.” 

Voldemort raised one of his long white fingers and put 
it very close to Harry’s cheek. 

“His mother left upon him the traces of her sacrifice. 

. . . This is old magic, I should have remembered it, I 
was foolish to overlook it . . . but no matter. I can 
touch him now.” 

Harry felt the cold tip of the long white finger touch 
him, and thought his head would burst with the pain. 
Voldemort laughed softly in his ear, then took the 
finger away and continued addressing the Death 
Eaters. 

“I miscalculated, my friends, I admit it. My curse was 
deflected by the woman’s foolish sacrifice, and it 
rebounded upon myself. Aaah . . . pain beyond pain, 
my friends; nothing could have prepared me for it. I 
was ripped from my body, I was less than spirit, less 
than the meanest ghost ... but still, I was alive. What 
I was, even I do not know ... I, who have gone further 
than anybody along the path that leads to 
immortality. You know my goal — to conquer death. 
And now, I was tested, and it appeared that one or 
more of my experiments had worked . . . for I had not 
been killed, though the curse should have done it. 
Nevertheless, I was as powerless as the weakest 
creature alive, and without the means to help myself 
. . . for I had no body, and every spell that might have 
helped me required the use of a wand. ... 

“I remember only forcing myself, sleeplessly, 
endlessly, second by second, to exist. ... I settled in a 
faraway place, in a forest, and I waited. ... Surely, one 
of my faithful Death Eaters would try and find me . . . 
one of them would come and perform the magic I 
Page | 722 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




could not, to restore me to a body . . . but I waited in 
vain. ...” 

The shiver ran once more around the circle of 
listening Death Eaters. Voldemort let the silence 
spiral horribly before continuing. 

“Only one power remained to me. I could possess the 
bodies of others. But I dared not go where other 
humans were plentiful, for I knew that the Aurors 
were still abroad and searching for me. I sometimes 
inhabited animals — snakes, of course, being my 
preference — but I was little better off inside them 
than as pure spirit, for their bodies were ill adapted to 
perform magic ... and my possession of them 
shortened their lives; none of them lasted long. ... 

“Then . . . four years ago . . . the means for my return 
seemed assured. A wizard — young, foolish, and 
gullible — wandered across my path in the forest I 
had made my home. Oh, he seemed the very chance I 
had been dreaming of . . . for he was a teacher at 
Dumbledore’s school ... he was easy to bend to my 
will ... he brought me back to this country, and after 
a while, I took possession of his body, to supervise 
him closely as he carried out my orders. But my plan 
failed. I did not manage to steal the Sorcerer’s Stone. I 
was not to be assured immortal life. I was thwarted ... 
thwarted, once again, by Harry Potter. ...” 

Silence once more; nothing was stirring, not even the 
leaves on the yew tree. The Death Eaters were quite 
motionless, the glittering eyes in their masks fixed 
upon Voldemort, and upon Harry. 

“The servant died when I left his body, and I was left 
as weak as ever I had been,” Voldemort continued. “I 
returned to my hiding place far away, and I will not 
pretend to you that I didn’t then fear that I might 

Page | 723 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




never regain my powers. ... Yes, that was perhaps my 
darkest hour ... I could not hope that I would be sent 
another wizard to possess ... and I had given up hope, 
now, that any of my Death Eaters cared what had 
become of me. ...” 

One or two of the masked wizards in the circle moved 
uncomfortably, but Voldemort took no notice. 

“And then, not even a year ago, when I had almost 
abandoned hope, it happened at last ... a servant 
returned to me. Wormtail here, who had faked his 
own death to escape justice, was driven out of hiding 
by those he had once counted friends, and decided to 
return to his master. He sought me in the country 
where it had long been rumored I was hiding . . . 
helped, of course, by the rats he met along the way. 
Wormtail has a curious affinity with rats, do you not, 
Wormtail? His filthy little friends told him there was a 
place, deep in an Albanian forest, that they avoided, 
where small animals like themselves had met their 
deaths by a dark shadow that possessed them. ... 

“But his journey back to me was not smooth, was it, 
Wormtail? For, hungry one night, on the edge of the 
very forest where he had hoped to find me, he 
foolishly stopped at an inn for some food . . . and who 
should he meet there, but one Bertha Jorkins, a 
witch from the Ministry of Magic. 

“Now see the way that fate favors Lord Voldemort. 

This might have been the end of Wormtail, and of my 
last hope for regeneration. But Wormtail — displaying 
a presence of mind I would never have expected from 
him — convinced Bertha Jorkins to accompany him 
on a nighttime stroll. He overpowered her ... he 
brought her to me. And Bertha Jorkins, who might 
have ruined all, proved instead to be a gift beyond my 



Page | 724 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




wildest dreams . . . for — with a little persuasion — she 
became a veritable mine of information. 

“She told me that the Triwizard Tournament would be 
played at Hogwarts this year. She told me that she 
knew of a faithful Death Eater who would be only too 
willing to help me, if I could only contact him. She 
told me many things . . . but the means I used to break 
the Memory Charm upon her were powerful, and 
when I had extracted all useful information from her, 
her mind and body were both damaged beyond repair. 
She had now served her purpose. I could not possess 
her. I disposed of her.” 

Voldemort smiled his terrible smile, his red eyes 
blank and pitiless. 

“Wormtail’s body, of course, was ill adapted for 
possession, as all assumed him dead, and would 
attract far too much attention if noticed. However, he 
was the able-bodied servant I needed, and, poor 
wizard though he is, Wormtail was able to follow the 
instructions I gave him, which would return me to a 
rudimentary, weak body of my own, a body I would be 
able to inhabit while awaiting the essential 
ingredients for true rebirth ... a spell or two of my 
own invention ... a little help from my dear Nagini,” 
Voldemort’s red eyes fell upon the continually circling 
snake, “a potion concocted from unicorn blood, and 
the snake venom Nagini provided ... I was soon 
returned to an almost human form, and strong 
enough to travel. 

“There was no hope of stealing the Sorcerer’s Stone 
anymore, for I knew that Dumbledore would have 
seen to it that it was destroyed. But I was willing to 
embrace mortal life again, before chasing immortality. 
I set my sights lower ... I would settle for my old body 
back again, and my old strength. 

Page | 725 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I knew that to achieve this — it is an old piece of 
Dark Magic, the potion that revived me tonight — I 
would need three powerful ingredients. Well, one of 
them was already at hand, was it not, Wormtail? 

Flesh given by a servant. ... 

“My father’s bone, naturally, meant that we would 
have to come here, where he was buried. But the 
blood of a foe ... Wormtail would have had me use any 
wizard, would you not, Wormtail? Any wizard who 
had hated me ... as so many of them still do. But I 
knew the one I must use, if I was to rise again, more 
powerful than I had been when I had fallen. I wanted 
Harry Potter’s blood. I wanted the blood of the one 
who had stripped me of power thirteen years ago . . . 
for the lingering protection his mother once gave him 
would then reside in my veins too. ... 

“But how to get at Harry Potter? For he has been 
better protected than I think even he knows, 
protected in ways devised by Dumbledore long ago, 
when it fell to him to arrange the boy’s future. 
Dumbledore invoked an ancient magic, to ensure the 
boy’s protection as long as he is in his relations’ care. 
Not even I can touch him there. ... Then, of course, 
there was the Quidditch World Cup. ... I thought his 
protection might be weaker there, away from his 
relations and Dumbledore, but I was not yet strong 
enough to attempt kidnap in the midst of a horde of 
Ministry wizards. And then, the boy would return to 
Hogwarts, where he is under the crooked nose of that 
Muggle-loving fool from morning until night. So how 
could I take him? 

“Why ... by using Bertha Jorkins’s information, of 
course. Use my one faithful Death Eater, stationed at 
Hogwarts, to ensure that the boy’s name was entered 
into the Goblet of Fire. Use my Death Eater to ensure 
that the boy won the tournament — that he touched 
Page | 726 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the Triwizard Cup first — the cup which my Death 
Eater had turned into a Portkey, which would bring 
him here, beyond the reach of Dumbledore’s help and 
protection, and into my waiting arms. And here he is 
... the boy you all believed had been my downfall...” 

Voldemort moved slowly forward and turned to face 
Harry. He raised his wand. 

“Crucio\” 

It was pain beyond anything Harry had ever 
experienced; his very bones were on fire; his head was 
surely splitting along his scar; his eyes were rolling 
madly in his head; he wanted it to end ... to black out 
...to die ... 

And then it was gone. He was hanging limply in the 
ropes binding him to the headstone of Voldemort’s 
father, looking up into those bright red eyes through 
a kind of mist. The night was ringing with the sound 
of the Death Eaters’ laughter. 

“You see, I think, how foolish it was to suppose that 
this boy could ever have been stronger than me,” said 
Voldemort. “But I want there to be no mistake in 
anybody’s mind. Harry Potter escaped me by a lucky 
chance. And I am now going to prove my power by 
killing him, here and now, in front of you all, when 
there is no Dumbledore to help him, and no mother to 
die for him. I will give him his chance. He will be 
allowed to fight, and you will be left in no doubt 
which of us is the stronger. Just a little longer, 
Nagini,” he whispered, and the snake glided away 
through the grass to where the Death Eaters stood 
watching. 

“Now untie him, Wormtail, and give him back his 
wand.” 

Page | 727 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






PRIORI INCANTATEM 

Wormtail approached Harry, who scrambled to find 
his feet, to support his own weight before the ropes 
were untied. Wormtail raised his new silver hand, 
pulled out the wad of material gagging Harry, and 
then, with one swipe, cut through the bonds tying 
Harry to the gravestone. 

There was a split second, perhaps, when Harry might 
have considered running for it, but his injured leg 
shook under him as he stood on the overgrown grave, 
as the Death Eaters closed ranks, forming a tighter 
circle around him and Voldemort, so that the gaps 
where the missing Death Eaters should have stood 
were filled. Wormtail walked out of the circle to the 
place where Cedric’s body lay and returned with 
Harry’s wand, which he thrust roughly into Harry’s 
hand without looking at him. Then Wormtail resumed 
his place in the circle of watching Death Eaters. 

“You have been taught how to duel, Harry Potter?” 
said Voldemort softly, his red eyes glinting through 
the darkness. 

Page | 728 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



At these words Harry remembered, as though from a 
former life, the dueling club at Hogwarts he had 
attended briefly two years ago. ... All he had learned 
there was the Disarming Spell, “ Expelliarmus” ... and 
what use would it be to deprive Voldemort of his 
wand, even if he could, when he was surrounded by 
Death Eaters, outnumbered by at least thirty to one? 
He had never learned anything that could possibly fit 
him for this. He knew he was facing the thing against 
which Moody had always warned . . . the un-blockable 
Avada Kedavra curse — and Voldemort was right — 
his mother was not here to die for him this time. ... 

He was quite unprotected. ... 

“We bow to each other, Harry,” said Voldemort, 
bending a little, but keeping his snakelike face 
upturned to Harry. “Come, the niceties must be 
observed. ... Dumbledore would like you to show 
manners. ... Bow to death, Harry. ...” 

The Death Eaters were laughing again. Voldemort’s 
lipless mouth was smiling. Harry did not bow. He was 
not going to let Voldemort play with him before killing 
him ... he was not going to give him that satisfaction. 



“I said, bow,” Voldemort said, raising his wand — and 
Harry felt his spine curve as though a huge, invisible 
hand were bending him ruthlessly forward, and the 
Death Eaters laughed harder than ever. 

“Very good,” said Voldemort softly, and as he raised 
his wand the pressure bearing down upon Harry lifted 
too. “And now you face me, like a man ... straight- 
backed and proud, the way your father died. ... 

“And now — we duel.” 



Page | 729 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort raised his wand, and before Harry could do 
anything to defend himself, before he could even 
move, he had been hit again by the Cruciatus Curse. 
The pain was so intense, so all-consuming, that he no 
longer knew where he was. ... White-hot knives were 
piercing every inch of his skin, his head was surely 
going to burst with pain, he was screaming more 
loudly than he’d ever screamed in his life — 

And then it stopped. Harry rolled over and scrambled 
to his feet; he was shaking as uncontrollably as 
Wormtail had done when his hand had been cut off; 
he staggered sideways into the wall of watching Death 
Eaters, and they pushed him away, back toward 
Voldemort. 

“A little break,” said Voldemort, the slit-like nostrils 
dilating with excitement, “a little pause . . . That hurt, 
didn’t it, Harry? You don’t want me to do that again, 
do you?” 

Harry didn’t answer. He was going to die like Cedric, 
those pitiless red eyes were telling him so ... he was 
going to die, and there was nothing he could do about 
it... but he wasn’t going to play along. He wasn’t going 
to obey Voldemort ... he wasn’t going to beg. ... 

“I asked you whether you want me to do that again,” 
said Voldemort softly. “Answer me! ImperioV’ 

And Harry felt, for the third time in his life, the 
sensation that his mind had been wiped of all 
thought. ... Ah, it was bliss, not to think, it was as 
though he were floating, dreaming ... just answer no 
. . . say no ... just answer no. . . . 

I will not, said a stronger voice, in the back of his 
head, I won’t answer. ... 



Page | 730 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Just answer no. ... 



I won’t do it, I won’t say it. ... 

Just answer no. ... 

“I WONT!” 

And these words burst from Harry’s mouth; they 
echoed through the graveyard, and the dream state 
was lifted as suddenly as though cold water had been 
thrown over him — back rushed the aches that the 
Cruciatus Curse had left all over his body — back 
rushed the realization of where he was, and what he 
was facing. ... 

“You won’t?” said Voldemort quietly, and the Death 
Eaters were not laughing now. “You won’t say no? 
Harry, obedience is a virtue I need to teach you before 
you die. ... Perhaps another little dose of pain?” 

Voldemort raised his wand, but this time Harry was 
ready; with the reflexes born of his Quidditch 
training, he flung himself sideways onto the ground; 
he rolled behind the marble headstone of Voldemort’s 
father, and he heard it crack as the curse missed 
him. 

“We are not playing hide-and-seek, Harry,” said 
Voldemort’s soft, cold voice, drawing nearer, as the 
Death Eaters laughed. “You cannot hide from me. 

Does this mean you are tired of our duel? Does this 
mean that you would prefer me to finish it now, 

Harry? Come out, Harry . . . come out and play, then 
...it will be quick ... it might even be painless ... I 
would not know ... I have never died. ...” 

Harry crouched behind the headstone and knew the 
end had come. There was no hope ... no help to be 

Page | 731 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




had. And as he heard Voldemort draw nearer still, he 
knew one thing only, and it was beyond fear or 
reason: He was not going to die crouching here like a 
child playing hide-and-seek; he was not going to die 
kneeling at Voldemort’s feet ... he was going to die 
upright like his father, and he was going to die trying 
to defend himself, even if no defense was possible. ... 

Before Voldemort could stick his snakelike face 
around the headstone, Harry stood up ... he gripped 
his wand tightly in his hand, thrust it out in front of 
him, and threw himself around the headstone, facing 
Voldemort. 

Voldemort was ready. As Harry shouted, 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ Voldemort cried, “Avada KedavraV’ 

A jet of green light issued from Voldemort’s wand just 
as a jet of red light blasted from Harry’s — they met 
in midair — and suddenly Harry’s wand was vibrating 
as though an electric charge were surging through it; 
his hand seized up around it; he couldn’t have 
released it if he’d wanted to — and a narrow beam of 
light connected the two wands, neither red nor green, 
but bright, deep gold. Harry, following the beam with 
his astonished gaze, saw that Voldemort’s long white 
fingers too were gripping a wand that was shaking 
and vibrating. 

And then — nothing could have prepared Harry for 
this — he felt his feet lift from the ground. He and 
Voldemort were both being raised into the air, their 
wands still connected by that thread of shimmering 
golden light. They glided away from the tombstone of 
Voldemort’s father and then came to rest on a patch 
of ground that was clear and free of graves. ... The 
Death Eaters were shouting; they were asking 
Voldemort for instructions; they were closing in, 
reforming the circle around Harry and Voldemort, the 
Page | 732 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




snake slithering at their heels, some of them drawing 
their wands — 



The golden thread connecting Harry and Voldemort 
splintered; though the wands remained connected, a 
thousand more beams arced high over Harry and 
Voldemort, crisscrossing all around them, until they 
were enclosed in a golden, dome-shaped web, a cage 
of light, beyond which the Death Eaters circled like 
jackals, their cries strangely muffled now. ... 

“Do nothing!” Voldemort shrieked to the Death 
Eaters, and Harry saw his red eyes wide with 
astonishment at what was happening, saw him 
fighting to break the thread of light still connecting 
his wand with Harry’s; Harry held onto his wand 
more tightly, with both hands, and the golden thread 
remained unbroken. “Do nothing unless I command 
you!” Voldemort shouted to the Death Eaters. 

And then an unearthly and beautiful sound filled the 
air. ... It was coming from every thread of the light- 
spun web vibrating around Harry and Voldemort. It 
was a sound Harry recognized, though he had heard 
it only once before in his life: phoenix song. 

It was the sound of hope to Harry . . . the most 
beautiful and welcome thing he had ever heard in his 
life. ... He felt as though the song were inside him 
instead of just around him. ... It was the sound he 
connected with Dumbledore, and it was almost as 
though a friend were speaking in his ear. . . . 

Don’t break the connection. 

I know, Harry told the music, I know I mustn’t ... but 
no sooner had he thought it, than the thing became 
much harder to do. His wand began to vibrate more 
powerfully than ever . . . and now the beam between 

Page | 733 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




him and Voldemort changed too ... it was as though 
large beads of light were sliding up and down the 
thread connecting the wands — Harry felt his wand 
give a shudder under his hand as the light beads 
began to slide slowly and steadily his way. . . . The 
direction of the beam’s movement was now toward 
him, from Voldemort, and he felt his wand shudder 
angrily. ... 

As the closest bead of light moved nearer to Harry’s 
wand tip, the wood beneath his fingers grew so hot he 
feared it would burst into flame. The closer that bead 
moved, the harder Harry’s wand vibrated; he was sure 
his wand would not survive contact with it; it felt as 
though it was about to shatter under his fingers — 

He concentrated every last particle of his mind upon 
forcing the bead back toward Voldemort, his ears full 
of phoenix song, his eyes furious, fixed ... and slowly, 
very slowly, the beads quivered to a halt, and then, 
just as slowly, they began to move the other way ... 
and it was Voldemort ’s wand that was vibrating extra- 
hard now ... Voldemort who looked astonished, and 
almost fearful. ... 

One of the beads of light was quivering, inches from 
the tip of Voldemort’s wand. Harry didn’t understand 
why he was doing it, didn’t know what it might 
achieve . . . but he now concentrated as he had never 
done in his life on forcing that bead of light right back 
into Voldemort’s wand ... and slowly ... very slowly ... 
it moved along the golden thread ... it trembled for a 
moment... and then it connected. ... 

At once, Voldemort’s wand began to emit echoing 
screams of pain ... then — Voldemort’s red eyes 
widened with shock — a dense, smoky hand flew out 
of the tip of it and vanished . . . the ghost of the hand 
he had made Wormtail ... more shouts of pain ... and 
Page | 734 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




then something much larger began to blossom from 
Voldemort’s wand tip, a great, grayish something, 
that looked as though it were made of the solidest, 
densest smoke. ... It was a head ... now a chest and 
arms . . . the torso of Cedric Diggory. 

If ever Harry might have released his wand from 
shock, it would have been then, but instinct kept him 
clutching his wand tightly, so that the thread of 
golden light remained unbroken, even though the 
thick gray ghost of Cedric Diggory (was it a ghost? it 
looked so solid) emerged in its entirety from the end of 
Voldemort’s wand, as though it were squeezing itself 
out of a very narrow tunnel . . . and this shade of 
Cedric stood up, and looked up and down the golden 
thread of light, and spoke. 

“Hold on, Harry,” it said. 

Its voice was distant and echoing. Harry looked at 
Voldemort . . . his wide red eyes were still shocked . . . 
he had no more expected this than Harry had . . . and, 
very dimly, Harry heard the frightened yells of the 
Death Eaters, prowling around the edges of the 
golden dome. ... 

More screams of pain from the wand . . . and then 
something else emerged from its tip . . . the dense 
shadow of a second head, quickly followed by arms 
and torso ... an old man Harry had seen only in a 
dream was now pushing himself out of the end of the 
wand just as Cedric had done ... and his ghost, or his 
shadow, or whatever it was, fell next to Cedric’s, and 
surveyed Harry and Voldemort, and the golden web, 
and the connected wands, with mild surprise, leaning 
on his walking stick. . . . 



Page | 735 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He was a real wizard, then?” the old man said, his 
eyes on Voldemort. “Killed me, that one did. ... You 
fight him, boy. ...” 

