choked. Doge banged him on the back as Harry 

Page | 177 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




coughed, looking at Auntie Muriel through streaming 
eyes. Once he had control of his voice again, he 
asked, “Bathilda Bagshot lives in Godric’s Hollow?” 

“Oh yes, she’s been there forever! The Dumbledores 
moved there after Percival was imprisoned, and she 
was their neighbor.” 

“The Dumbledores lived in Godric’s Hollow?” 

“Yes, Barry, that’s what I just said,” said Auntie 
Muriel testily. 

Harry felt drained, empty. Never once, in six years, 
had Dumbledore told Harry that they had both lived 
and lost loved ones in Godric’s Hollow. Why? Were 
Lily and James buried close to Dumbledore ’s mother 
and sister? Had Dumbledore visited their graves, 
perhaps walked past Lily’s and James’s to do so? And 
he had never once told Harry . . . never bothered to say 



And why it was so important, Harry could not explain 
even to himself, yet he felt it had been tantamount to 
a lie not to tell him that they had this place and these 
experiences in common. He stared ahead of him, 
barely noticing what was going on around him, and 
did not realize that Hermione had appeared out of the 
crowd until she drew up a chair beside him. 

“I simply can’t dance anymore,” she panted, slipping 
off one of her shoes and rubbing the sole of her foot. 
“Ron’s gone looking to find more butterbeers. It’s a bit 
odd, I’ve just seen Viktor storming away from Luna’s 
father, it looked like they’d been arguing — ” She 
dropped her voice, staring at him. “Harry, are you 
okay?” 



Page | 178 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not know where to begin, but it did not 
matter. At that moment, something large and silver 
came falling through the canopy over the dance floor. 
Graceful and gleaming, the lynx landed lightly in the 
middle of the astonished dancers. Heads turned, as 
those nearest it froze absurdly in mid-dance. Then 
the Patronus’s mouth opened wide and it spoke in the 
loud, deep, slow voice of Kingsley Shacklebolt. 

“The Ministry has fallen. Scrimgeour is dead. They are 
coming.” 



Page | 179 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




9 




A PLACE TO HIDE 

Everything seemed fuzzy, slow. Harry and Hermione 
jumped to their feet and drew their wands. Many 
people were only just realizing that something strange 
had happened; heads were still turning toward the 
silver cat as it vanished. Silence spread outward in 
cold ripples from the place where the Patronus had 
landed. Then somebody screamed. 

Harry and Hermione threw themselves into the 
panicking crowd. Guests were sprinting in all 
directions; many were Disapparating; the protective 
enchantments around the Burrow had broken. 

“Ron!” Hermione cried. “Ron, where are you?” 

As they pushed their way across the dance floor, 
Harry saw cloaked and masked figures appearing in 
the crowd; then he saw Lupin and Tonks, their wands 
raised, and heard both of them shout, “Protego\”, a 
cry that was echoed on all sides — 



Page | 180 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“Ron! Ron!” Hermione called, half sobbing as she and 
Harry were buffeted by terrified guests: Harry seized 
her hand to make sure they weren’t separated as a 
streak of light whizzed over their heads, whether a 
protective charm or something more sinister he did 
not know — 

And then Ron was there. He caught hold of 
Hermione ’s free arm, and Harry felt her turn on the 
spot; sight and sound were extinguished as darkness 
pressed in upon him; all he could feel was Hermione’s 
hand as he was squeezed through space and time, 
away from the Burrow, away from the descending 
Death Eaters, away, perhaps, from Voldemort 
himself. ... 

“Where are we?” said Ron’s voice. 

Harry opened his eyes. For a moment he thought they 
had not left the wedding after all: They still seemed to 
be surrounded by people. 

“Tottenham Court Road,” panted Hermione. “Walk, 
just walk, we need to find somewhere for you to 
change.” 

Harry did as she asked. They half walked, half ran up 
the wide dark street thronged with late-night revelers 
and lined with closed shops, stars twinkling above 
them. A double-decker bus rumbled by and a group 
of merry pub-goers ogled them as they passed; Harry 
and Ron were still wearing dress robes. 

“Hermione, we haven’t got anything to change into,” 
Ron told her, as a young woman burst into raucous 
giggles at the sight of him. 



Page | 181 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Why didn’t I make sure I had the Invisibility Cloak 
with me?” said Harry, inwardly cursing his own 
stupidity. “All last year I kept it on me and — ” 

“It’s okay, I’ve got the Cloak, I’ve got clothes for both 
of you,” said Hermione. “Just try and act naturally 
until — this will do.” 

She led them down a side street, then into the shelter 
of a shadowy alleyway. 

“When you say you’ve got the Cloak, and clothes ...” 
said Harry, frowning at Hermione, who was carrying 
nothing except her small beaded handbag, in which 
she was now rummaging. 

“Yes, they’re here,” said Hermione, and to Harry and 
Ron’s utter astonishment, she pulled out a pair of 
jeans, a sweatshirt, some maroon socks, and finally 
the silvery Invisibility Cloak. 

“How the ruddy hell — ?” 

“Undetectable Extension Charm,” said Hermione. 
“Tricky, but I think I’ve done it okay; anyway, I 
managed to fit everything we need in here.” She gave 
the fragile-looking bag a little shake and it echoed like 
a cargo hold as a number of heavy objects rolled 
around inside it. “Oh, damn, that’ll be the books,” she 
said, peering into it, “and I had them all stacked by 
subject. ... Oh well. ... Harry, you’d better take the 
Invisibility Cloak. Ron, hurry up and change. ...” 

“When did you do all this?” Harry asked as Ron 
stripped off his robes. 

“I told you at the Burrow, I’ve had the essentials 
packed for days, you know, in case we needed to 
make a quick getaway. I packed your rucksack this 

Page | 182 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




morning, Harry, after you changed, and put it in here. 
... I just had a feeling. ...” 

“You’re amazing, you are,” said Ron, handing her his 
bundled-up robes. 

“Thank you,” said Hermione, managing a small smile 
as she pushed the robes into the bag. “Please, Harry, 
get that Cloak on!” 

Harry threw the Invisibility Cloak around his 
shoulders and pulled it up over his head, vanishing 
from sight. He was only just beginning to appreciate 
what had happened. 

“The others — everyone at the wedding — ” 

“We can’t worry about that now,” whispered 
Hermione. “It’s you they’re after, Harry, and we’ll just 
put everyone in even more danger by going back.” 

“She’s right,” said Ron, who seemed to know that 
Harry was about to argue, even if he could not see his 
face. “Most of the Order was there, they’ll look after 
everyone.” 

Harry nodded, then remembered that they could not 
see him, and said, “Yeah.” But he thought of Ginny, 
and fear bubbled like acid in his stomach. 

“Come on, I think we ought to keep moving,” said 
Hermione. 

They moved back up the side street and onto the 
main road again, where a group of men on the 
opposite side was singing and weaving across the 
pavement. 



Page | 183 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Just as a matter of interest, why Tottenham Court 
Road?” Ron asked Hermione. 



“I’ve no idea, it just popped into my head, but I’m 
sure we’re safer out in the Muggle world, it’s not 
where they’ll expect us to be.” 

“True,” said Ron, looking around, “but don’t you feel a 
bit — exposed?” 

“Where else is there?” asked Hermione, cringing as 
the men on the other side of the road started wolf- 
whistling at her. “We can hardly book rooms at the 
Leaky Cauldron, can we? And Grimmauld Place is out 
if Snape can get in there. ... I suppose we could try 
my parents’ house, though I think there’s a chance 
they might check there. ... Oh, I wish they’d shut up!” 

“All right, darling?” the drunkest of the men on the 
other pavement was yelling. “Fancy a drink? Ditch 
ginger and come and have a pint!” 

“Let’s sit down somewhere,” Hermione said hastily as 
Ron opened his mouth to shout back across the road. 
“Look, this will do, in here!” 

It was a small and shabby all-night cafe. A light layer 
of grease lay on all the Formica- topped tables, but it 
was at least empty. Harry slipped into a booth first 
and Ron sat next to him opposite Hermione, who had 
her back to the entrance and did not like it: She 
glanced over her shoulder so frequently she appeared 
to have a twitch. Harry did not like being stationary; 
walking had given the illusion that they had a goal. 
Beneath the Cloak he could feel the last vestiges of 
Polyjuice leaving him, his hands returning to their 
usual length and shape. He pulled his glasses out of 
his pocket and put them on again. 

Page | 184 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




After a minute or two, Ron said, “You know, we’re not 
far from the Leaky Cauldron here, it’s only in Charing 
Cross — ” 

“Ron, we can’t!” said Hermione at once. 

“Not to stay there, but to find out what’s going on!” 

“We know what’s going on! Voldemort’s taken over the 
Ministry, what else do we need to know?” 

“Okay, okay, it was just an idea!” 

They relapsed into a prickly silence. The gum-chewing 
waitress shuffled over and Hermione ordered two 
cappuccinos: As Harry was invisible, it would have 
looked odd to order him one. A pair of burly workmen 
entered the cafe and squeezed into the next booth. 
Hermione dropped her voice to a whisper. 

“I say we find a quiet place to Disapparate and head 
for the countryside. Once we’re there, we could send a 
message to the Order.” 

“Can you do that talking Patronus thing, then?” 
asked Ron. 

“I’ve been practicing and I think so,” said Hermione. 

“Well, as long as it doesn’t get them into trouble, 
though they might’ve been arrested already. God, 
that’s revolting,” Ron added after one sip of the 
foamy, grayish coffee. The waitress had heard; she 
shot Ron a nasty look as she shuffled off to take the 
new customers’ orders. The larger of the two 
workmen, who was blond and quite huge, now that 
Harry came to look at him, waved her away. She 
stared, affronted. 



Page | 185 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Let’s get going, then, I don’t want to drink this 
muck,” said Ron. “Hermione, have you got Muggle 
money to pay for this?” 

“Yes, I took out all my Building Society savings before 
I came to the Burrow. I’ll bet all the change is at the 
bottom,” sighed Hermione, reaching for her beaded 
bag. 

The two workmen made identical movements, and 
Harry mirrored them without conscious thought: All 
three of them drew their wands. Ron, a few seconds 
late in realizing what was going on, lunged across the 
table, pushing Hermione sideways onto her bench. 

The force of the Death Eaters’ spells shattered the 
tiled wall where Ron’s head had just been, as Harry, 
still invisible, yelled, “Stupefyl” 

The great blond Death Eater was hit in the face by a 
jet of red light: He slumped sideways, unconscious. 
His companion, unable to see who had cast the spell, 
fired another at Ron: Shining black ropes flew from 
his wand-tip and bound Ron head to foot — the 
waitress screamed and ran for the door — Harry sent 
another Stunning Spell at the Death Eater with the 
twisted face who had tied up Ron, but the spell 
missed, rebounded on the window, and hit the 
waitress, who collapsed in front of the door. 

“Expulsol” bellowed the Death Eater, and the table 
behind which Harry was standing blew up: The force 
of the explosion slammed him into the wall and he felt 
his wand leave his hand as the Cloak slipped off him. 

“Petrificus TotalusV’ screamed Hermione from out of 
sight, and the Death Eater fell forward like a statue to 
land with a crunching thud on the mess of broken 
china, table, and coffee. Hermione crawled out from 



Page | 186 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




underneath the bench, shaking bits of glass ashtray 
out of her hair and trembling all over. 

“D-diffindo,” she said, pointing her wand at Ron, who 
roared in pain as she slashed open the knee of his 
jeans, leaving a deep cut. “Oh, I’m so sorry, Ron, my 
hand’s shaking! Diffindol” 

The severed ropes fell away. Ron got to his feet, 
shaking his arms to regain feeling in them. Harry 
picked up his wand and climbed over all the debris to 
where the large blond Death Eater was sprawled 
across the bench. 

“I should’ve recognized him, he was there the night 
Dumbledore died,” he said. He turned over the darker 
Death Eater with his foot; the man’s eyes moved 
rapidly between Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 

“That’s Dolohov,” said Ron. “I recognize him from the 
old wanted posters. I think the big one’s Thorfinn 
Rowle.” 

“Never mind what they’re called!” said Hermione a 
little hysterically. “How did they find us? What are we 
going to do?” 

Somehow her panic seemed to clear Harry’s head. 

“Lock the door,” he told her, “and Ron, turn out the 
lights.” 

He looked down at the paralyzed Dolohov, thinking 
fast as the lock clicked and Ron used the 
Deluminator to plunge the cafe into darkness. Harry 
could hear the men who had jeered at Hermione 
earlier, yelling at another girl in the distance. 



Page | 187 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“What are we going to do with them?” Ron whispered 
to Harry through the dark; then, even more quietly, 
“Kill them? They’d kill us. They had a good go just 
now.” 

Hermione shuddered and took a step backward. 
Harry shook his head. 

“We just need to wipe their memories,” said Harry. 
“It’s better like that, it’ll throw them off the scent. If 
we killed them it’d be obvious we were here.” 

“You’re the boss,” said Ron, sounding profoundly 
relieved. “But I’ve never done a Memory Charm.” 

“Nor have I,” said Hermione, “but I know the theory.” 

She took a deep, calming breath, then pointed her 
wand at Dolohov’s forehead and said, “Obliviate.” 

At once, Dolohov’s eyes became unfocused and 
dreamy. 

“Brilliant!” said Harry, clapping her on the back. 
“Take care of the other one and the waitress while 
Ron and I clear up.” 

“Clear up?” said Ron, looking around at the partly 
destroyed cafe. “Why?” 

“Don’t you think they might wonder what’s happened 
if they wake up and find themselves in a place that 
looks like it’s just been bombed?” 

“Oh right, yeah ...” 

Ron struggled for a moment before managing to 
extract his wand from his pocket. 



Page | 188 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s no wonder I can’t get it out, Hermione, you 
packed my old jeans, they’re tight.” 

“Oh, I’m so sorry,” hissed Hermione, and as she 
dragged the waitress out of sight of the windows, 
Harry heard her mutter a suggestion as to where Ron 
could stick his wand instead. 

Once the cafe was restored to its previous condition, 
they heaved the Death Eaters back into their booth 
and propped them up facing each other. 

“But how did they find us?” Hermione asked, looking 
from one inert man to the other. “How did they know 
where we were?” 

She turned to Harry. 

“You — you don’t think you’ve still got your Trace on 
you, do you, Harry?” 

“He can’t have,” said Ron. “The Trace breaks at 
seventeen, that’s Wizarding law, you can’t put it on 
an adult.” 

“As far as you know,” said Hermione. “What if the 
Death Eaters have found a way to put it on a 
seventeen-year-old?” 

“But Harry hasn’t been near a Death Eater in the last 
twenty-four hours. Who’s supposed to have put a 
Trace back on him?” 

Hermione did not reply. Harry felt contaminated, 
tainted: Was that really how the Death Eaters had 
found them? 

“If I can’t use magic, and you can’t use magic near 
me, without us giving away our position — ” he began. 

Page | 189 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We’re not splitting up!” said Hermione firmly. 



“We need a safe place to hide,” said Ron. “Give us 
time to think things through.” 

“Grimmauld Place,” said Harry. 

The other two gaped. 

“Don’t be silly, Harry, Snape can get in there!” 

“Ron’s dad said they’ve put up jinxes against him — 
and even if they haven’t worked,” he pressed on as 
Hermione began to argue, “so what? I swear, I’d like 
nothing better than to meet Snape!” 

“But — ” 

“Hermione, where else is there? It’s the best chance 
we’ve got. Snape’s only one Death Eater. If I’ve still 
got the Trace on me, we’ll have whole crowds of them 
on us wherever else we go.” 

She could not argue, though she looked as if she 
would have liked to. While she unlocked the cafe 
door, Ron clicked the Deluminator to release the 
cafe’s light. Then, on Harry’s count of three, they 
reversed the spells upon their three victims, and 
before the waitress or either of the Death Eaters could 
do more than stir sleepily, Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
had turned on the spot and vanished into the 
compressing darkness once more. 

Seconds later Harry’s lungs expanded gratefully and 
he opened his eyes: They were now standing in the 
middle of a familiar small and shabby square. Tall, 
dilapidated houses looked down on them from every 
side. Number twelve was visible to them, for they had 
been told of its existence by Dumbledore, its Secret- 
P a g e | 190 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Keeper, and they rushed toward it, checking every few 
yards that they were not being followed or observed. 
They raced up the stone steps, and Harry tapped the 
front door once with his wand. They heard a series of 
metallic clicks and the clatter of a chain, then the 
door swung open with a creak and they hurried over 
the threshold. 

As Harry closed the door behind them, the old- 
fashioned gas lamps sprang into life, casting 
flickering light along the length of the hallway. It 
looked just as Harry remembered it: eerie, 
cobwebbed, the outlines of the house-elf heads on the 
wall throwing odd shadows up the staircase. Long 
dark curtains concealed the portrait of Sirius’s 
mother. The only thing that was out of place was the 
troll’s leg umbrella stand, which was lying on its side 
as if Tonks had just knocked it over again. 

“I think somebody’s been in here,” Hermione 
whispered, pointing toward it. 

“That could’ve happened as the Order left,” Ron 
murmured back. 

“So where are these jinxes they put up against 
Snape?” Harry asked. 

“Maybe they’re only activated if he shows up?” 
suggested Ron. 

Yet they remained close together on the doormat, 
backs against the door, scared to move farther into 
the house. 

“Well, we can’t stay here forever,” said Harry, and he 
took a step forward. 

“Severus Snape?” 

Page | 191 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Mad-Eye Moody’s voice whispered out of the 
darkness, making all three of them jump back in 
fright. “We’re not Snape!” croaked Harry, before 
something whooshed over him like cold air and his 
tongue curled backward on itself, making it 
impossible to speak. Before he had time to feel inside 
his mouth, however, his tongue had unraveled again. 

The other two seemed to have experienced the same 
unpleasant sensation. Ron was making retching 
noises; Hermione stammered, “That m-must have b- 
been the T-Tongue-Tying Curse Mad-Eye set up for 
Snape!” 

Gingerly Harry took another step forward. Something 
shifted in the shadows at the end of the hall, and 
before any of them could say another word, a figure 
had risen up out of the carpet, tall, dust-colored, and 
terrible: Hermione screamed and so did Mrs. Black, 
her curtains flying open; the gray figure was gliding 
toward them, faster and faster, its waist-length hair 
and beard streaming behind it, its face sunken, 
fleshless, with empty eye sockets: Horribly familiar, 
dreadfully altered, it raised a wasted arm, pointing at 
Harry. 

“No!” Harry shouted, and though he had raised his 
wand no spell occurred to him. “No! It wasn’t us! We 
didn’t kill you — ” 

On the word kill, the figure exploded in a great cloud 
of dust: Coughing, his eyes watering, Harry looked 
around to see Hermione crouched on the floor by the 
door with her arms over her head, and Ron, who was 
shaking from head to foot, patting her clumsily on the 
shoulder and saying, “It’s all r-right. ... It’s g-gone. ...” 

Dust swirled around Harry like mist, catching the 
blue gaslight, as Mrs. Black continued to scream. 

Page | 192 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Mudbloods, filth, stains of dishonor, taint of shame on 
the house of my fathers — ” 

“SHUT UP!” Harry bellowed, directing his wand at her, 
and with a bang and a burst of red sparks, the 
curtains swung shut again, silencing her. 

“That ... that was ...” Hermione whimpered, as Ron 
helped her to her feet. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “but it wasn’t really him, was it? 
Just something to scare Snape.” 

Had it worked, Harry wondered, or had Snape already 
blasted the horror-figure aside as casually as he had 
killed the real Dumbledore? Nerves still tingling, he 
led the other two up the hall, half-expecting some new 
terror to reveal itself, but nothing moved except for a 
mouse skittering along the skirting board. 

“Before we go any farther, I think we’d better check,” 
whispered Hermione, and she raised her wand and 
said, “Homenum revelio.” 

Nothing happened. 

“Well, you’ve just had a big shock,” said Ron kindly. 
“What was that supposed to do?” 

“It did what I meant it to do!” said Hermione rather 
crossly. “That was a spell to reveal human presence, 
and there’s nobody here except us!” 

“And old Dusty,” said Ron, glancing at the patch of 
carpet from which the corpse-figure had risen. 

“Let’s go up,” said Hermione with a frightened look at 
the same spot, and she led the way up the creaking 
stairs to the drawing room on the first floor. 

Page | 193 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione waved her wand to ignite the old gas lamps, 
then, shivering slightly in the drafty room, she 
perched on the sofa, her arms wrapped tightly around 
her. Ron crossed to the window and moved the heavy 
velvet curtain aside an inch. 

“Can’t see anyone out there,” he reported. “And you’d 
think, if Harry still had a Trace on him, they’d have 
followed us here. I know they can’t get in the house, 
but — what’s up, Harry?” 

Harry had given a cry of pain: His scar had burned 
again as something flashed across his mind like a 
bright light on water. He saw a large shadow and felt 
a fury that was not his own pound through his body, 
violent and brief as an electric shock. 

“What did you see?” Ron asked, advancing on Harry. 
“Did you see him at my place?” 

“No, I just felt anger — he’s really angry — ” 

“But that could be at the Burrow,” said Ron loudly. 
“What else? Didn’t you see anything? Was he cursing 
someone?” 

“No, I just felt anger — I couldn’t tell — ” 

Harry felt badgered, confused, and Hermione did not 
help as she said in a frightened voice, “Your scar, 
again? But what’s going on? I thought that 
connection had closed!” 

“It did, for a while,” muttered Harry; his scar was still 
painful, which made it hard to concentrate. “I — I 
think it’s started opening again whenever he loses 
control, that’s how it used to — ” 



Page | 194 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But then you’ve got to close your mind!” said 
Hermione shrilly. “Harry, Dumbledore didn’t want you 
to use that connection, he wanted you to shut it 
down, that’s why you were supposed to use 
Occlumency! Otherwise Voldemort can plant false 
images in your mind, remember — ” 

“Yeah, I do remember, thanks,” said Harry through 
gritted teeth; he did not need Hermione to tell him 
that Voldemort had once used this selfsame 
connection between them to lead him into a trap, nor 
that it had resulted in Sirius’s death. He wished that 
he had not told them what he had seen and felt; it 
made Voldemort more threatening, as though he were 
pressing against the window of the room, and still the 
pain in his scar was building and he fought it: It was 
like resisting the urge to be sick. 

He turned his back on Ron and Hermione, pretending 
to examine the old tapestry of the Black family tree on 
the wall. Then Hermione shrieked: Harry drew his 
wand again and spun around to see a silver Patronus 
soar through the drawing room window and land 
upon the floor in front of them, where it solidified into 
the weasel that spoke with the voice of Ron’s father. 

“Family safe, do not reply, we are being watched.” 

The Patronus dissolved into nothingness. Ron let out 
a noise between a whimper and a groan and dropped 
onto the sofa: Hermione joined him, gripping his arm. 

“They’re all right, they’re all right!” she whispered, 
and Ron half laughed and hugged her. 

“Harry,” he said over Hermione’s shoulder, “I — ” 

“It’s not a problem,” said Harry, sickened by the pain 
in his head. “It’s your family, ’course you’re worried. 

Page | 195 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




I’d feel the same way.” He thought of Ginny. “I do feel 
the same way.” 

The pain in his scar was reaching a peak, burning as 
it had done in the garden of the Burrow. Faintly he 
heard Hermione say, “I don’t want to be on my own. 
Could we use the sleeping bags I’ve brought and 
camp in here tonight?” 

He heard Ron agree. He could not fight the pain much 
longer: He had to succumb. 

“Bathroom,” he muttered, and he left the room as fast 
as he could without running. 

He barely made it: Bolting the door behind him with 
trembling hands, he grasped his pounding head and 
fell to the floor, then in an explosion of agony, he felt 
the rage that did not belong to him possess his soul, 
saw a long room lit only by firelight, and the great 
blond Death Eater on the floor, screaming and 
writhing, and a slighter figure standing over him, 
wand outstretched, while Harry spoke in a high, cold, 
merciless voice. 

“More, Rowle, or shall we end it and feed you to 
Nagini? Lord Voldemort is not sure that he will forgive 
this time. ... You called me back for this, to tell me 
that Harry Potter has escaped again? Draco, give 
Rowle another taste of our displeasure. ... Do it, or 
feel my wrath yourself!” 

A log fell in the fire: Flames reared, their light darting 
across a terrified, pointed white face — with a sense 
of emerging from deep water, Harry drew heaving 
breaths and opened his eyes. 

He was spread-eagled on the cold black marble floor, 
his nose inches from one of the silver serpent tails 

Page | 196 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




that supported the large bathtub. He sat up. Malfoy’s 
gaunt, petrified face seemed branded on the inside of 
his eyes. Harry felt sickened by what he had seen, by 
the use to which Draco was now being put by 
Voldemort. 

There was a sharp rap on the door, and Harry jumped 
as Hermione’s voice rang out. 

“Harry, do you want your toothbrush? I’ve got it 
here.” 

“Yeah, great, thanks,” he said, fighting to keep his 
voice casual as he stood up to let her in. 



Page | 197 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




10 




KREACHER’S TALE 

Harry woke early next morning, wrapped in a sleeping 
bag on the drawing room floor. A chink of sky was 
visible between the heavy curtains: It was the cool, 
clear blue of watered ink, somewhere between night 
and dawn, and everything was quiet except for Ron 
and Hermione’s slow, deep breathing. Harry glanced 
over at the dark shapes they made on the floor beside 
him. Ron had had a fit of gallantry and insisted that 
Hermione sleep on the cushions from the sofa, so that 
her silhouette was raised above his. Her arm curved 
to the floor, her fingers inches from Ron’s. Harry 
wondered whether they had fallen asleep holding 
hands. The idea made him feel strangely lonely. 

He looked up at the shadowy ceiling, the cobwebbed 
chandelier. Less than twenty-four hours ago, he had 
been standing in the sunlight at the entrance to the 
marquee, waiting to show in wedding guests. It 
seemed a lifetime away. What was going to happen 
now? He lay on the floor and he thought of the 
Horcruxes, of the daunting, complex mission 
Dumbledore had left him. ... Dumbledore ... 

Page | 198 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 



The grief that had possessed him since Dumbledore’s 
death felt different now. The accusations he had 
heard from Muriel at the wedding seemed to have 
nested in his brain like diseased things, infecting his 
memories of the wizard he had idolized. Could 
Dumbledore have let such things happen? Had he 
been like Dudley, content to watch neglect and abuse 
as long as it did not affect him? Could he have turned 
his back on a sister who was being imprisoned and 
hidden? 

Harry thought of Godric’s Hollow, of graves 
Dumbledore had never mentioned there; he thought 
of mysterious objects left without explanation in 
Dumbledore’s will, and resentment swelled in the 
darkness. Why hadn’t Dumbledore told him? Why 
hadn’t he explained? Had Dumbledore actually cared 
about Harry at all? Or had Harry been nothing more 
than a tool to be polished and honed, but not trusted, 
never confided in? 

Harry could not stand lying there with nothing but 
bitter thoughts for company. Desperate for something 
to do, for distraction, he slipped out of his sleeping 
bag, picked up his wand, and crept out of the room. 
On the landing he whispered, “Lumos,” and started to 
climb the stairs by wandlight. 

On the second landing was the bedroom in which he 
and Ron had slept last time they had been here; he 
glanced into it. The wardrobe doors stood open and 
the bedclothes had been ripped back. Harry 
remembered the overturned troll leg downstairs. 
Somebody had searched the house since the Order 
had left. Snape? Or perhaps Mundungus, who had 
pilfered plenty from this house both before and after 
Sirius died? Harry’s gaze wandered to the portrait 
that sometimes contained Phineas Nigellus Black, 
Sirius’s great-great-grandfather, but it was empty, 
Page | 199 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




showing nothing but a stretch of muddy backdrop. 
Phineas Nigellus was evidently spending the night in 
the headmaster’s study at Hogwarts. 

Harry continued up the stairs until he reached the 
topmost landing, where there were only two doors. 

The one facing him bore a nameplate reading SIRIUS. 
Harry had never entered his godfather’s bedroom 
before. He pushed open the door, holding his wand 
high to cast light as widely as possible. The room was 
spacious and must once have been handsome. There 
was a large bed with a carved wooden headboard, a 
tall window obscured by long velvet curtains, and a 
chandelier thickly coated in dust with candle stubs 
still resting in its sockets, solid wax hanging in 
frostlike drips. A fine film of dust covered the pictures 
on the walls and the bed’s headboard; a spider’s web 
stretched between the chandelier and the top of the 
large wooden wardrobe, and as Harry moved deeper 
into the room, he heard a scurrying of disturbed mice. 

The teenage Sirius had plastered the walls with so 
many posters and pictures that little of the walls’ 
silvery-gray silk was visible. Harry could only assume 
that Sirius’s parents had been unable to remove the 
Permanent Sticking Charm that kept them on the 
wall, because he was sure they would not have 
appreciated their eldest son’s taste in decoration. 
Sirius seemed to have gone out of his way to annoy 
his parents. There were several large Gryffindor 
banners, faded scarlet and gold, just to underline his 
difference from all the rest of the Slytherin family. 
There were many pictures of Muggle motorcycles, and 
also (Harry had to admire Sirius’s nerve) several 
posters of bikini-clad Muggle girls; Harry could tell 
that they were Muggles because they remained quite 
stationary within their pictures, faded smiles and 
glazed eyes frozen on the paper. This was in contrast 
to the only Wizarding photograph on the walls, which 
Page | 200 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




was a picture of four Hogwarts students standing arm 
in arm, laughing at the camera. 



With a leap of pleasure, Harry recognized his father; 
his untidy black hair stuck up at the back like 
Harry’s, and he too wore glasses. Beside him was 
Sirius, carelessly handsome, his slightly arrogant face 
so much younger and happier than Harry had ever 
seen it alive. To Sirius’s right stood Pettigrew, more 
than a head shorter, plump and watery-eyed, flushed 
with pleasure at his inclusion in this coolest of gangs, 
with the much-admired rebels that James and Sirius 
had been. On James’s left was Lupin, even then a 
little shabby-looking, but he had the same air of 
delighted surprise at finding himself liked and 
included ... or was it simply because Harry knew how 
it had been, that he saw these things in the picture? 
He tried to take it from the wall; it was his now, after 
all, Sirius had left him everything, but it would not 
budge. Sirius had taken no chances in preventing his 
parents from redecorating his room. 

