      position, while Soames, who never smoked cigars, would not.

      Then, too, in old Jolyon’s mind there was always the secret ache,
      that the son of James—of James, whom he had always thought such a
      poor thing, should be pursuing the paths of success, while his
      own son...!

      And last, not least—for he was no more outside the radiation of
      family gossip than any other Forsyte—he had now heard the
      sinister, indefinite, but none the less disturbing rumour about
      Bosinney, and his pride was wounded to the quick.

      Characteristically, his irritation turned not against Irene but
      against Soames. The idea that his nephew’s wife (why couldn’t the
      fellow take better care of her—Oh! quaint injustice! as though
      Soames could possibly take more care!)—should be drawing to
      herself Jun’s lover, was intolerably humiliating. And seeing the
      danger, he did not, like James, hide it away in sheer
      nervousness, but owned with the dispassion of his broader
      outlook, that it was not unlikely; there was something very
      attractive about Irene!

      He had a presentiment on the subject of Soames’s communication as
      they left the Board Room together, and went out into the noise
      and hurry of Cheapside. They walked together a good minute
      without speaking, Soames with his mousing, mincing step, and old
      Jolyon upright and using his umbrella languidly as a
      walking-stick.

      They turned presently into comparative quiet, for old Jolyon’s
      way to a second Board led him in the direction of Moorage Street.

      Then Soames, without lifting his eyes, began: “I’ve had this
      letter from Bosinney. You see what he says; I thought I’d let you
      know. I’ve spent a lot more than I intended on this house, and I
      want the position to be clear.”

      Old Jolyon ran his eyes unwillingly over the letter: “What he
      says is clear enough,” he said.

      “He talks about ‘a free hand,’” replied Soames.

      Old Jolyon looked at him. The long-suppressed irritation and
      antagonism towards this young fellow, whose affairs were
      beginning to intrude upon his own, burst from him.

      “Well, if you don’t trust him, why do you employ him?”

      Soames stole a sideway look: “It’s much too late to go into
      that,” he said, “I only want it to be quite understood that if I
      give him a free hand, he doesn’t let me in. I thought if you were
      to speak to him, it would carry more weight!”

      “No,” said old Jolyon abruptly; “I’ll have nothing to do with
      it!”

      The words of both uncle and nephew gave the impression of
      unspoken meanings, far more important, behind. And the look they
      interchanged was like a revelation of this consciousness.

      “Well,” said Soames; “I thought, for Jun’s sake, I’d tell you,
      that’s all; I thought you’d better know I shan’t stand any
      nonsense!”

      “What is that to me?” old Jolyon took him up.

      “Oh! I don’t know,” said Soames, and flurried by that sharp look
      he was unable to say more. “Don’t say I didn’t tell you,” he
      added sulkily, recovering his composure.

      “Tell me!” said old Jolyon; “I don’t know what you mean. You come
      worrying me about a thing like this. _I_ don’t want to hear about
      your affairs; you must manage them yourself!”

      “Very well,” said Soames immovably, “I will!”

      “Good-morning, then,” said old Jolyon, and they parted.

      Soames retraced his steps, and going into a celebrated
      eating-house, asked for a plate of smoked salmon and a glass of
      Chablis; he seldom ate much in the middle of the day, and
      generally ate standing, finding the position beneficial to his
      liver, which was very sound, but to which he desired to put down
      all his troubles.

      When he had finished he went slowly back to his office, with bent
      head, taking no notice of the swarming thousands on the
      pavements, who in their turn took no notice of him.

      The evening post carried the following reply to Bosinney:

      “FORSYTE, BUSTARD AND FORSYTE,
      “Commissioners for Oaths,
      “92001, BRANCH LANE, POULTRY, E.C.,
      “_May_ 17, 1887.

      “DEAR BOSINNEY,
          “I have, received your letter, the terms of which not a
          little surprise me. I was under the impression that you had,
          and have had all along, a “free hand”; for I do not recollect
          that any suggestions I have been so unfortunate as to make
          have met with your approval. In giving you, in accordance
          with your request, this “free hand,” I wish you to clearly
          understand that the total cost of the house as handed over to
          me completely decorated, inclusive of your fee (as arranged
          between us), must not exceed twelve thousand pounds—£12,000.
          This gives you an ample margin, and, as you know, is far more
          than I originally contemplated.

      “I am,
      “Yours truly,
      “SOAMES FORSYTE.”

      On the following day he received a note from Bosinney:

      “PHILIP BAYNES BOSINNEY,
      “Architect,
      “309D, SLOANE STREET, S.W.,
      “_May_ 18.

      “DEAR FORSYTE,
          “If you think that in such a delicate matter as decoration I
          can bind myself to the exact pound, I am afraid you are
          mistaken. I can see that you are tired of the arrangement,
          and of me, and I had better, therefore, resign.

      “Yours faithfully,
      “PHILIP BAYNES BOSINNEY.”

      Soames pondered long and painfully over his answer, and late at
      night in the dining-room, when Irene had gone to bed, he composed
      the following:

      “62, MONTPELLIER SQUARE, S.W.,
      “_May_ 19, 1887.

      “DEAR BOSINNEY,
          “I think that in both our interests it would be extremely
          undesirable that matters should be so left at this stage. I
          did not mean to say that if you should exceed the sum named
          in my letter to you by ten or twenty or even fifty pounds,
          there would be any difficulty between us. This being so, I
          should like you to reconsider your answer. You have a “free
          hand” in the terms of this correspondence, and I hope you
          will see your way to completing the decorations, in the
          matter of which I know it is difficult to be absolutely
          exact.

      “Yours truly,
      “SOAMES FORSYTE.”

      Bosinney’s answer, which came in the course of the next day, was:

      “_May_ 20.

      “DEAR FORSYTE,
          “Very well.

      “PH. BOSINNEY.”




      CHAPTER VI OLD JOLYON AT THE ZOO

      Old Jolyon disposed of his second Meeting—an ordinary
      Board—summarily. He was so dictatorial that his fellow directors
      were left in cabal over the increasing domineeringness of old
      Forsyte, which they were far from intending to stand much longer,
      they said.

      He went out by Underground to Portland Road Station, whence he
      took a cab and drove to the Zoo.

      He had an assignation there, one of those assignations that had
      lately been growing more frequent, to which his increasing
      uneasiness about June and the “change in her,” as he expressed
      it, was driving him.

      She buried herself away, and was growing thin; if he spoke to her
      he got no answer, or had his head snapped off, or she looked as
      if she would burst into tears. She was as changed as she could
      be, all through this Bosinney. As for telling him about anything,
      not a bit of it!

      And he would sit for long spells brooding, his paper unread
      before him, a cigar extinct between his lips. She had been such a
      companion to him ever since she was three years old! And he loved
      her so!

      Forces regardless of family or class or custom were beating down
      his guard; impending events over which he had no control threw
      their shadows on his head. The irritation of one accustomed to
      have his way was roused against he knew not what.

      Chafing at the slowness of his cab, he reached the Zoo door; but,
      with his sunny instinct for seizing the good of each moment, he
      forgot his vexation as he walked towards the tryst.

      From the stone terrace above the bear-pit his son and his two
      grandchildren came hastening down when they saw old Jolyon
      coming, and led him away towards the lion-house. They supported
      him on either side, holding one to each of his hands,—whilst
      Jolly, perverse like his father, carried his grandfather’s
      umbrella in such a way as to catch people’s legs with the crutch
      of the handle.

      Young Jolyon followed.

      It was as good as a play to see his father with the children, but
      such a play as brings smiles with tears behind. An old man and
      two small children walking together can be seen at any hour of
      the day; but the sight of old Jolyon, with Jolly and Holly seemed
      to young Jolyon a special peep-show of the things that lie at the
      bottom of our hearts. The complete surrender of that erect old
      figure to those little figures on either hand was too poignantly
      tender, and, being a man of an habitual reflex action, young
      Jolyon swore softly under his breath. The show affected him in a
      way unbecoming to a Forsyte, who is nothing if not
      undemonstrative.

      Thus they reached the lion-house.

      There had been a morning fête at the Botanical Gardens, and a
      large number of Forsy—that is, of well-dressed people who kept
      carriages had brought them on to the Zoo, so as to have more, if
      possible, for their money, before going back to Rutland Gate or
      Bryanston Square.

      “Let’s go on to the Zoo,” they had said to each other; “it’ll be
      great fun!” It was a shilling day; and there would not be all
      those horrid common people.

      In front of the long line of cages they were collected in rows,
      watching the tawny, ravenous beasts behind the bars await their
      only pleasure of the four-and-twenty hours. The hungrier the
      beast, the greater the fascination. But whether because the
      spectators envied his appetite, or, more humanely, because it was
      so soon to be satisfied, young Jolyon could not tell. Remarks
      kept falling on his ears: “That’s a nasty-looking brute, that
      tiger!” “Oh, what a love! Look at his little mouth!” “Yes, he’s
      rather nice! Don’t go too near, mother.”

      And frequently, with little pats, one or another would clap their
      hands to their pockets behind and look round, as though expecting
      young Jolyon or some disinterested-looking person to relieve them
      of the contents.

      A well-fed man in a white waistcoat said slowly through his
      teeth: “It’s all greed; they can’t be hungry. Why, they take no
      exercise.” At these words a tiger snatched a piece of bleeding
      liver, and the fat man laughed. His wife, in a Paris model frock
      and gold nose-nippers, reproved him: “How can you laugh, Harry?
      Such a horrid sight!”

      Young Jolyon frowned.

      The circumstances of his life, though he had ceased to take a too
      personal view of them, had left him subject to an intermittent
      contempt; and the class to which he had belonged—the carriage
      class—especially excited his sarcasm.

      To shut up a lion or tiger in confinement was surely a horrible
      barbarity. But no cultivated person would admit this.

      The idea of its being barbarous to confine wild animals had
      probably never even occurred to his father for instance; he
      belonged to the old school, who considered it at once humanizing
      and educational to confine baboons and panthers, holding the
      view, no doubt, that in course of time they might induce these
      creatures not so unreasonably to die of misery and heart-sickness
      against the bars of their cages, and put the society to the
      expense of getting others! In his eyes, as in the eyes of all
      Forsytes, the pleasure of seeing these beautiful creatures in a
      state of captivity far outweighed the inconvenience of
      imprisonment to beasts whom God had so improvidently placed in a
      state of freedom! It was for the animals’ good, removing them at
      once from the countless dangers of open air and exercise, and
      enabling them to exercise their functions in the guaranteed
      seclusion of a private compartment! Indeed, it was doubtful what
      wild animals were made for but to be shut up in cages!

      But as young Jolyon had in his constitution the elements of
      impartiality, he reflected that to stigmatize as barbarity that
      which was merely lack of imagination must be wrong; for none who
      held these views had been placed in a similar position to the
      animals they caged, and could not, therefore, be expected to
      enter into their sensations. It was not until they were leaving
      the gardens—Jolly and Holly in a state of blissful delirium—that
      old Jolyon found an opportunity of speaking to his son on the
      matter next his heart. “I don’t know what to make of it,” he
      said; “if she’s to go on as she’s going on now, I can’t tell
      what’s to come. I wanted her to see the doctor, but she won’t.
      She’s not a bit like me. She’s your mother all over. Obstinate as
      a mule! If she doesn’t want to do a thing, she won’t, and there’s
      an end of it!”

      Young Jolyon smiled; his eyes had wandered to his father’s chin.
      “A pair of you,” he thought, but he said nothing.

      “And then,” went on old Jolyon, “there’s this Bosinney. I should
      like to punch the fellow’s head, but I can’t, I suppose, though—I
      don’t see why you shouldn’t,” he added doubtfully.

      “What has he done? Far better that it should come to an end, if
      they don’t hit it off!”

      Old Jolyon looked at his son. Now they had actually come to
      discuss a subject connected with the relations between the sexes
      he felt distrustful. Jo would be sure to hold some loose view or
      other.

      “Well, I don’t know what you think,” he said; “I dare say your
      sympathy’s with him—shouldn’t be surprised; but I think he’s
      behaving precious badly, and if he comes my way I shall tell him
      so.” He dropped the subject.

      It was impossible to discuss with his son the true nature and
      meaning of Bosinney’s defection. Had not his son done the very
      same thing (worse, if possible) fifteen years ago? There seemed
      no end to the consequences of that piece of folly.

      Young Jolyon also was silent; he had quickly penetrated his
      father’s thought, for, dethroned from the high seat of an obvious
      and uncomplicated view of things, he had become both perceptive
      and subtle.

      The attitude he had adopted towards sexual matters fifteen years
      before, however, was too different from his father’s. There was
      no bridging the gulf.

      He said coolly: “I suppose he’s fallen in love with some other
      woman?”

      Old Jolyon gave him a dubious look: “I can’t tell,” he said;
      “they say so!”

      “Then, it’s probably true,” remarked young Jolyon unexpectedly;
      “and I suppose _they’ve_ told you who she is?”

      “Yes,” said old Jolyon, “Soames’s wife!”

      Young Jolyon did not whistle: The circumstances of his own life
      had rendered him incapable of whistling on such a subject, but he
      looked at his father, while the ghost of a smile hovered over his
      face.

      If old Jolyon saw, he took no notice.

      “She and June were bosom friends!” he muttered.

      “Poor little June!” said young Jolyon softly. He thought of his
      daughter still as a babe of three.

      Old Jolyon came to a sudden halt.

      “I don’t believe a word of it,” he said, “it’s some old woman’s
      tale. Get me a cab, Jo, I’m tired to death!”

      They stood at a corner to see if an empty cab would come along,
      while carriage after carriage drove past, bearing Forsytes of all
      descriptions from the Zoo. The harness, the liveries, the gloss
      on the horses’ coats, shone and glittered in the May sunlight,
      and each equipage, landau, sociable, barouche, Victoria, or
      brougham, seemed to roll out proudly from its wheels:

      “I and my horses and my men you know,
      Indeed the whole turn-out have cost a pot.
      But we were worth it every penny. Look
      At Master and at Missis now, the dawgs!
      Ease with security—ah! that’s the ticket!”

      And such, as everyone knows, is fit accompaniment for a
      perambulating Forsyte.

      Amongst these carriages was a barouche coming at a greater pace
      than the others, drawn by a pair of bright bay horses. It swung
      on its high springs, and the four people who filled it seemed
      rocked as in a cradle.

      This chariot attracted young Jolyon’s attention; and suddenly, on
      the back seat, he recognised his Uncle James, unmistakable in
      spite of the increased whiteness of his whiskers; opposite, their
      backs defended by sunshades, Rachel Forsyte and her elder but
      married sister, Winifred Dartie, in irreproachable toilettes, had
      posed their heads haughtily, like two of the birds they had been
      seeing at the Zoo; while by James’ side reclined Dartie, in a
      brand-new frock-coat buttoned tight and square, with a large
      expanse of carefully shot linen protruding below each wristband.

      An extra, if subdued, sparkle, an added touch of the best gloss
      or varnish characterized this vehicle, and seemed to distinguish
      it from all the others, as though by some happy extravagance—like
      that which marks out the real “work of art” from the ordinary
      “picture”—it were designated as the typical car, the very throne
      of Forsytedom.

      Old Jolyon did not see them pass; he was petting poor Holly who
      was tired, but those in the carriage had taken in the little
      group; the ladies’ heads tilted suddenly, there was a spasmodic
      screening movement of parasols; James’ face protruded naively,
      like the head of a long bird, his mouth slowly opening. The
      shield-like rounds of the parasols grew smaller and smaller, and
      vanished.

      Young Jolyon saw that he had been recognised, even by Winifred,
      who could not have been more than fifteen when he had forfeited
      the right to be considered a Forsyte.

      There was not much change in _them!_ He remembered the exact look
      of their turn-out all that time ago: Horses, men, carriage—all
      different now, no doubt—but of the precise stamp of fifteen years
      before; the same neat display, the same nicely calculated
      arrogance ease with security! The swing exact, the pose of the
      sunshades exact, exact the spirit of the whole thing.

      And in the sunlight, defended by the haughty shields of parasols,
      carriage after carriage went by.

      “Uncle James has just passed, with his female folk,” said young
      Jolyon.

      His father looked black. “Did your uncle see us? Yes? Hmph!
      What’s _he_ want, coming down into these parts?”

      An empty cab drove up at this moment, and old Jolyon stopped it.

      “I shall see you again before long, my boy!” he said. “Don’t you
      go paying any attention to what I’ve been saying about young
      Bosinney—I don’t believe a word of it!”

      Kissing the children, who tried to detain him, he stepped in and
      was borne away.

      Young Jolyon, who had taken Holly up in his arms, stood
      motionless at the corner, looking after the cab.




      CHAPTER VII AFTERNOON AT TIMOTHY’S

      If old Jolyon, as he got into his cab, had said: “I _won’t_
      believe a word of it!” he would more truthfully have expressed
      his sentiments.

      The notion that James and his womankind had seen him in the
      company of his son had awakened in him not only the impatience he
      always felt when crossed, but that secret hostility natural
      between brothers, the roots of which—little nursery
      rivalries—sometimes toughen and deepen as life goes on, and, all
      hidden, support a plant capable of producing in season the
      bitterest fruits.

      Hitherto there had been between these six brothers no more
      unfriendly feeling than that caused by the secret and natural
      doubt that the others might be richer than themselves; a feeling
      increased to the pitch of curiosity by the approach of death—that
      end of all handicaps—and the great “closeness” of their man of
      business, who, with some sagacity, would profess to Nicholas
      ignorance of James’ income, to James ignorance of old Jolyon’s,
      to Jolyon ignorance of Roger’s, to Roger ignorance of Swithin’s,
      while to Swithin he would say most irritatingly that Nicholas
      must be a rich man. Timothy alone was exempt, being in gilt-edged
      securities.

      But now, between two of them at least, had arisen a very
      different sense of injury. From the moment when James had the
      impertinence to pry into his affairs—as he put it—old Jolyon no
      longer chose to credit this story about Bosinney. His
      grand-daughter slighted through a member of “that fellow’s”
      family! He made up his mind that Bosinney was maligned. There
      must be some other reason for his defection.

      June had flown out at him, or something; she was as touchy as she
      could be!

      He would, however, let Timothy have a bit of his mind, and see if
      he would go on dropping hints! And he would not let the grass
      grow under his feet either, he would go there at once, and take
      very good care that he didn’t have to go again on the same
      errand.

      He saw James’ carriage blocking the pavement in front of “The
      Bower”. So they had got there before him—cackling about having
      seen him, he dared say! And further on, Swithin’s greys were
      turning their noses towards the noses of James’ bays, as though
      in conclave over the family, while their coachmen were in
      conclave above.

      Old Jolyon, depositing his hat on the chair in the narrow hall,
      where that hat of Bosinney’s had so long ago been mistaken for a
      cat, passed his thin hand grimly over his face with its great
      drooping white moustaches, as though to remove all traces of
      expression, and made his way upstairs.

      He found the front drawing-room full. It was full enough at the
      best of times—without visitors—without any one in it—for Timothy
      and his sisters, following the tradition of their generation,
      considered that a room was not quite “nice” unless it was
      “properly” furnished. It held, therefore, eleven chairs, a sofa,
      three tables, two cabinets, innumerable knicknacks, and part of a
      large grand piano. And now, occupied by Mrs. Small, Aunt Hester,
      by Swithin, James, Rachel, Winifred, Euphemia, who had come in
      again to return “Passion and Paregoric” which she had read at
      lunch, and her chum Frances, Roger’s daughter (the musical
      Forsyte, the one who composed songs), there was only one chair
      left unoccupied, except, of course, the two that nobody ever sat
      on—and the only standing room was occupied by the cat, on whom
      old Jolyon promptly stepped.

      In these days it was by no means unusual for Timothy to have so
      many visitors. The family had always, one and all, had a real
      respect for Aunt Ann, and now that she was gone, they were coming
      far more frequently to The Bower, and staying longer.

      Swithin had been the first to arrive, and seated torpid in a red
      satin chair with a gilt back, he gave every appearance of lasting
      the others out. And symbolizing Bosinney’s name “the big one,”
      with his great stature and bulk, his thick white hair, his puffy
      immovable shaven face, he looked more primeval than ever in the
      highly upholstered room.

      His conversation, as usual of late, had turned at once upon
      Irene, and he had lost no time in giving Aunts Juley and Hester
      his opinion with regard to this rumour he heard was going about.
      No—as he said—she might want a bit of flirtation—a pretty woman
      must have her fling; but more than that he did not believe.
      Nothing open; she had too much good sense, too much proper
      appreciation of what was due to her position, and to the family!
      No sc—, he was going to say “scandal” but the very idea was so
      preposterous that he waved his hand as though to say—“but let
      that pass!”

      Granted that Swithin took a bachelor’s view of the
      situation—still what indeed was not due to that family in which
      so many had done so well for themselves, had attained a certain
      position? If he _had_ heard in dark, pessimistic moments the
      words “yeomen” and “very small beer” used in connection with his
      origin, did he believe them?

      No! he cherished, hugging it pathetically to his bosom the secret
      theory that there was something distinguished somewhere in his
      ancestry.

      “Must be,” he once said to young Jolyon, before the latter went
      to the bad. “Look at us, _we’ve_ got on! There must be good blood
      in us somewhere.”

      He had been fond of young Jolyon: the boy had been in a good set
      at College, had known that old ruffian Sir Charles Fiste’s sons—a
      pretty rascal one of them had turned out, too; and there was
      style about him—it was a thousand pities he had run off with that
      half-foreign governess! If he must go off like that why couldn’t
      he have chosen someone who would have done them credit! And what
      was he now?—an underwriter at Lloyd’s; they said he even painted
      pictures—pictures! Damme! he might have ended as Sir Jolyon
      Forsyte, Bart., with a seat in Parliament, and a place in the
      country!

      It was Swithin who, following the impulse which sooner or later
      urges thereto some member of every great family, went to the
      Heralds’ Office, where they assured him that he was undoubtedly
      of the same family as the well-known Forsites with an “i,” whose
      arms were “three dexter buckles on a sable ground gules,” hoping
      no doubt to get him to take them up.

      Swithin, however, did not do this, but having ascertained that
      the crest was a “pheasant proper,” and the motto “For Forsite,”
      he had the pheasant proper placed upon his carriage and the
      buttons of his coachman, and both crest and motto on his
      writing-paper. The arms he hugged to himself, partly because, not
      having paid for them, he thought it would look ostentatious to
      put them on his carriage, and he hated ostentation, and partly
      because he, like any practical man all over the country, had a
      secret dislike and contempt for things he could not understand he
      found it hard, as anyone might, to swallow “three dexter buckles
      on a sable ground gules.”

      He never forgot, however, their having told him that if he paid
      for them he would be entitled to use them, and it strengthened
      his conviction that he was a gentleman. Imperceptibly the rest of
      the family absorbed the “pheasant proper,” and some, more serious
      than others, adopted the motto; old Jolyon, however, refused to
      use the latter, saying that it was humbug meaning nothing, so far
      as he could see.

      Among the older generation it was perhaps known at bottom from
      what great historical event they derived their crest; and if
      pressed on the subject, sooner than tell a lie—they did not like
      telling lies, having an impression that only Frenchmen and
      Russians told them—they would confess hurriedly that Swithin had
      got hold of it somehow.

      Among the younger generation the matter was wrapped in a
      discretion proper. They did not want to hurt the feelings of
      their elders, nor to feel ridiculous themselves; they simply used
      the crest....

      “No,” said Swithin, “he had had an opportunity of seeing for
      himself, and what he should say was, that there was nothing in
      her manner to that young Buccaneer or Bosinney or whatever his
      name was, different from her manner to himself; in fact, he
      should rather say....” But here the entrance of Frances and
      Euphemia put an unfortunate stop to the conversation, for this
      was not a subject which could be discussed before young people.

      And though Swithin was somewhat upset at being stopped like this
      on the point of saying something important, he soon recovered his
      affability. He was rather fond of Frances—Francie, as she was
      called in the family. She was so smart, and they told him she
      made a pretty little pot of pin-money by her songs; he called it
      very clever of her.

      He rather prided himself indeed on a liberal attitude towards
      women, not seeing any reason why they shouldn’t paint pictures,
      or write tunes, or books even, for the matter of that, especially
      if they could turn a useful penny by it; not at all—kept them out
      of mischief. It was not as if they were men!

      “Little Francie,” as she was usually called with good-natured
      contempt, was an important personage, if only as a standing
      illustration of the attitude of Forsytes towards the Arts. She
      was not really “little,” but rather tall, with dark hair for a
      Forsyte, which, together with a grey eye, gave her what was
      called “a Celtic appearance.” She wrote songs with titles like
      “Breathing Sighs,” or “Kiss me, Mother, ere I die,” with a
      refrain like an anthem:
    “Kiss me, Mother, ere I die;
     Kiss me-kiss me, Mother, ah!
     Kiss, ah! kiss me e-ere I—
     Kiss me, Mother, ere I d-d-die!”

      She wrote the words to them herself, and other poems. In lighter
      moments she wrote waltzes, one of which, the “Kensington Coil,”
      was almost national to Kensington, having a sweet dip in it.
      Thus:


      It was very original. Then there were her “Songs for Little
      People,” at once educational and witty, especially “Gran’ma’s
      Porgie,” and that ditty, almost prophetically imbued with the
      coming Imperial spirit, entitled “Black Him In His Little Eye.”

      Any publisher would take these, and reviews like “High Living,”
      and the “Ladies’ Genteel Guide” went into raptures over: “Another
      of Miss Francie Forsyte’s spirited ditties, sparkling and
      pathetic. We ourselves were moved to tears and laughter. Miss
      Forsyte should go far.”

      With the true instinct of her breed, Francie had made a point of
      knowing the right people—people who would write about her, and
      talk about her, and people in Society, too—keeping a mental
      register of just where to exert her fascinations, and an eye on
      that steady scale of rising prices, which in her mind’s eye
      represented the future. In this way she caused herself to be
      universally respected.

      Once, at a time when her emotions were whipped by an
      attachment—for the tenor of Roger’s life, with its whole-hearted
      collection of house property, had induced in his only daughter a
      tendency towards passion—she turned to great and sincere work,
      choosing the sonata form, for the violin. This was the only one
      of her productions that troubled the Forsytes. They felt at once
      that it would not sell.

      Roger, who liked having a clever daughter well enough, and often
      alluded to the amount of pocket-money she made for herself, was
      upset by this violin sonata.

      “Rubbish like that!” he called it. Francie had borrowed young
      Flageoletti from Euphemia, to play it in the drawing-room at
      Prince’s Gardens.

      As a matter of fact Roger was right. It was rubbish,
      but—annoying! the sort of rubbish that wouldn’t sell. As every
      Forsyte knows, rubbish that sells is not rubbish at all—far from
      it.

      And yet, in spite of the sound common sense which fixed the worth
      of art at what it would fetch, some of the Forsytes—Aunt Hester,
      for instance, who had always been musical—could not help
      regretting that Francie’s music was not “classical”. the same
      with her poems. But then, as Aunt Hester said, they didn’t see
      any poetry nowadays, all the poems were “little light things.”
      There was nobody who could write a poem like “Paradise Lost,” or
      “Childe Harold”; either of which made you feel that you really
      had read something. Still, it was nice for Francie to have
      something to occupy her; while other girls were spending money
      shopping she was making it!

      And both Aunt Hester and Aunt Juley were always ready to listen
      to the latest story of how Francie had got her price increased.

      They listened now, together with Swithin, who sat pretending not
      to, for these young people talked so fast and mumbled so, he
      never could catch what they said.

      “And I can’t think,” said Mrs. Septimus, “how you do it. I should
      never have the audacity!”

      Francie smiled lightly. “I’d much rather deal with a man than a
      woman. Women are so sharp!”

      “My dear,” cried Mrs. Small, “I’m sure we’re not.”

      Euphemia went off into her silent laugh, and, ending with the
      squeak, said, as though being strangled: “Oh, you’ll kill me some
      day, auntie.”

      Swithin saw no necessity to laugh; he detested people laughing
      when he himself perceived no joke. Indeed, he detested Euphemia
      altogether, to whom he always alluded as “Nick’s daughter, what’s
      she called—the pale one?” He had just missed being her
      god-father—indeed, would have been, had he not taken a firm stand
      against her outlandish name. He hated becoming a godfather.
      Swithin then said to Francie with dignity: “It’s a fine
      day—er—for the time of year.” But Euphemia, who knew perfectly
      well that he had refused to be her godfather, turned to Aunt
      Hester, and began telling her how she had seen Irene—Mrs.
      Soames—at the Church and Commercial Stores.

      “And Soames was with her?” said Aunt Hester, to whom Mrs. Small
      had as yet had no opportunity of relating the incident.

      “_Soames_ with her? Of _course_ not!”

      “But was she all alone in London?”

      “Oh, no; there was Mr. Bosinney with her. She was _perfectly_
      dressed.”

      But Swithin, hearing the name Irene, looked severely at Euphemia,
      who, it is true, never did look well in a dress, whatever she may
      have done on other occasions, and said:

      “Dressed like a lady, I’ve no doubt. It’s a pleasure to see her.”

      At this moment James and his daughters were announced. Dartie,
      feeling badly in want of a drink, had pleaded an appointment with
      his dentist, and, being put down at the Marble Arch, had got into
      a hansom, and was already seated in the window of his club in
      Piccadilly.

      His wife, he told his cronies, had wanted to take him to pay some
      calls. It was not in his line—not exactly. Haw!

      Hailing the waiter, he sent him out to the hall to see what had
      won the 4.30 race. He was dog-tired, he said, and that was a
      fact; had been drivin’ about with his wife to “shows” all the
      afternoon. Had put his foot down at last. A fellow must live his
      own life.

      At this moment, glancing out of the bay window—for he loved this
      seat whence he could see everybody pass—his eye unfortunately, or
      perhaps fortunately, chanced to light on the figure of Soames,
      who was mousing across the road from the Green Park-side, with
      the evident intention of coming in, for he, too, belonged to “The
      Iseeum.”

      Dartie sprang to his feet; grasping his glass, he muttered
      something about “that 4.30 race,” and swiftly withdrew to the
      card-room, where Soames never came. Here, in complete isolation
      and a dim light, he lived his own life till half past seven, by
      which hour he knew Soames must certainly have left the club.

      It would not do, as he kept repeating to himself whenever he felt
      the impulse to join the gossips in the bay-window getting too
      strong for him—it absolutely would not do, with finances as low
      as his, and the “old man” (James) rusty ever since that business
      over the oil shares, which was no fault of his, to risk a row
      with Winifred.

      If Soames were to see him in the club it would be sure to come
      round to her that he wasn’t at the dentist’s at all. He never
      knew a family where things “came round” so. Uneasily, amongst the
      green baize card-tables, a frown on his olive coloured face, his
      check trousers crossed, and patent-leather boots shining through
      the gloom, he sat biting his forefinger, and wondering where the
      deuce he was to get the money if Erotic failed to win the
      Lancashire Cup.

      His thoughts turned gloomily to the Forsytes. What a set they
      were! There was no getting anything out of them—at least, it was
      a matter of extreme difficulty. They were so d—-d particular
      about money matters; not a sportsman amongst the lot, unless it
      were George. That fellow Soames, for instance, would have a fit
      if you tried to borrow a tenner from him, or, if he didn’t have a
      fit, he looked at you with his cursed supercilious smile, as if
      you were a lost soul because you were in want of money.

      And that wife of his (Dartie’s mouth watered involuntarily), he
      had tried to be on good terms with her, as one naturally would
      with any pretty sister-in-law, but he would be cursed if the (he
      mentally used a coarse word)—would have anything to say to
      him—she looked at him, indeed, as if he were dirt—and yet she
      could go far enough, he wouldn’t mind betting. He knew women;
      they weren’t made with soft eyes and figures like that for
      nothing, as that fellow Soames would jolly soon find out, if
      there were anything in what he had heard about this Buccaneer
      Johnny.

      Rising from his chair, Dartie took a turn across the room, ending
      in front of the looking-glass over the marble chimney-piece; and
      there he stood for a long time contemplating in the glass the
      reflection of his face. It had that look, peculiar to some men,
      of having been steeped in linseed oil, with its waxed dark
      moustaches and the little distinguished commencements of side
      whiskers; and concernedly he felt the promise of a pimple on the
      side of his slightly curved and fattish nose.

      In the meantime old Jolyon had found the remaining chair in
      Timothy’s commodious drawing-room. His advent had obviously put a
      stop to the conversation, decided awkwardness having set in. Aunt
      Juley, with her well-known kindheartedness, hastened to set
      people at their ease again.

      “Yes, Jolyon,” she said, “we were just saying that you haven’t
      been here for a long time; but we mustn’t be surprised. You’re
      busy, of course? James was just saying what a busy time of
      year....”

      “Was he?” said old Jolyon, looking hard at James. “It wouldn’t be
      half so busy if everybody minded their own business.”

      James, brooding in a small chair from which his knees ran uphill,
      shifted his feet uneasily, and put one of them down on the cat,
      which had unwisely taken refuge from old Jolyon beside him.

      “Here, you’ve got a cat here,” he said in an injured voice,
      withdrawing his foot nervously as he felt it squeezing into the
      soft, furry body.

      “Several,” said old Jolyon, looking at one face and another; “I
      trod on one just now.”

      A silence followed.

      Then Mrs. Small, twisting her fingers and gazing round with
      “pathetic calm”, asked: “And how is dear June?”

      A twinkle of humour shot through the sternness of old Jolyon’s
      eyes. Extraordinary old woman, Juley! No one quite like her for
      saying the wrong thing!

      “Bad!” he said; “London don’t agree with her—too many people
      about, too much clatter and chatter by half.” He laid emphasis on
      the words, and again looked James in the face.

      Nobody spoke.

      A feeling of its being too dangerous to take a step in any
      direction, or hazard any remark, had fallen on them all.
      Something of the sense of the impending, that comes over the
      spectator of a Greek tragedy, had entered that upholstered room,
      filled with those white-haired, frock-coated old men, and
      fashionably attired women, who were all of the same blood,
      between all of whom existed an unseizable resemblance.

      Not that they were conscious of it—the visits of such fateful,
      bitter spirits are only felt.

      Then Swithin rose. He would not sit there, feeling like that—he
      was not to be put down by anyone! And, manoeuvring round the room
      with added pomp, he shook hands with each separately.

      “You tell Timothy from me,” he said, “that he coddles himself too
      much!” Then, turning to Francie, whom he considered “smart,” he
      added: “You come with me for a drive one of these days.” But this
      conjured up the vision of that other eventful drive which had
      been so much talked about, and he stood quite still for a second,
      with glassy eyes, as though waiting to catch up with the
      significance of what he himself had said; then, suddenly
      recollecting that he didn’t care a damn, he turned to old Jolyon:
      “Well, good-bye, Jolyon! You shouldn’t go about without an
      overcoat; you’ll be getting sciatica or something!” And, kicking
      the cat slightly with the pointed tip of his patent leather boot,
      he took his huge form away.

      When he had gone everyone looked secretly at the others, to see
      how they had taken the mention of the word “drive”—the word which
      had become famous, and acquired an overwhelming importance, as
      the only official—so to speak—news in connection with the vague
      and sinister rumour clinging to the family tongue.

      Euphemia, yielding to an impulse, said with a short laugh: “I’m
      glad Uncle Swithin doesn’t ask me to go for drives.”

      Mrs. Small, to reassure her and smooth over any little
      awkwardness the subject might have, replied: “My dear, he likes
      to take somebody well dressed, who will do him a little credit. I
      shall never forget the drive he took me. It was an experience!”
      And her chubby round old face was spread for a moment with a
      strange contentment; then broke into pouts, and tears came into
      her eyes. She was thinking of that long ago driving tour she had
      once taken with Septimus Small.

      James, who had relapsed into his nervous brooding in the little
      chair, suddenly roused himself: “He’s a funny fellow, Swithin,”
      he said, but in a half-hearted way.

      Old Jolyon’s silence, his stern eyes, held them all in a kind of
      paralysis. He was disconcerted himself by the effect of his own
      words—an effect which seemed to deepen the importance of the very
      rumour he had come to scotch; but he was still angry.

      He had not done with them yet—No, no—he would give them another
      rub or two.

      He did not wish to rub his nieces, he had no quarrel with them—a
      young and presentable female always appealed to old Jolyon’s
      clemency—but that fellow James, and, in a less degree perhaps,
      those others, deserved all they would get. And he, too, asked for
      Timothy.

      As though feeling that some danger threatened her younger
      brother, Aunt Juley suddenly offered him tea: “There it is,” she
      said, “all cold and nasty, waiting for you in the back drawing
      room, but Smither shall make you some fresh.”

      Old Jolyon rose: “Thank you,” he said, looking straight at James,
      “but I’ve no time for tea, and—scandal, and the rest of it! It’s
      time I was at home. Good-bye, Julia; good-bye, Hester; good-bye,
      Winifred.”

      Without more ceremonious adieux, he marched out.

      Once again in his cab, his anger evaporated, for so it ever was
      with his wrath—when he had rapped out, it was gone. Sadness came
      over his spirit. He had stopped their mouths, maybe, but at what
      a cost! At the cost of certain knowledge that the rumour he had
      been resolved not to believe was true. June was abandoned, and
      for the wife of that fellow’s son! He felt it was true, and
      hardened himself to treat it as if it were not; but the pain he
      hid beneath this resolution began slowly, surely, to vent itself
      in a blind resentment against James and his son.

      The six women and one man left behind in the little drawing-room
      began talking as easily as might be after such an occurrence, for
      though each one of them knew for a fact that he or she never
      talked scandal, each one of them also knew that the other six
      did; all were therefore angry and at a loss. James only was
      silent, disturbed, to the bottom of his soul.

      Presently Francie said: “Do you know, I think Uncle Jolyon is
      terribly changed this last year. What do you think, Aunt Hester?”

      Aunt Hester made a little movement of recoil: “Oh, ask your Aunt
      Julia!” she said; “I know nothing about it.”

      No one else was afraid of assenting, and James muttered gloomily
      at the floor: “He’s not half the man he was.”

      “I’ve noticed it a long time,” went on Francie; “he’s aged
      tremendously.”

      Aunt Juley shook her head; her face seemed suddenly to have
      become one immense pout.

      “Poor dear Jolyon,” she said, “somebody ought to see to it for
      him!”

      There was again silence; then, as though in terror of being left
      solitarily behind, all five visitors rose simultaneously, and
      took their departure.

      Mrs. Small, Aunt Hester, and their cat were left once more alone,
      the sound of a door closing in the distance announced the
      approach of Timothy.

      That evening, when Aunt Hester had just got off to sleep in the
      back bedroom that used to be Aunt Juley’s before Aunt Juley took
      Aunt Ann’s, her door was opened, and Mrs. Small, in a pink
      night-cap, a candle in her hand, entered: “Hester!” she said.
      “Hester!”

      Aunt Hester faintly rustled the sheet.

      “Hester,” repeated Aunt Juley, to make quite sure that she had
      awakened her, “I am quite troubled about poor dear Jolyon.
      _What_,” Aunt Juley dwelt on the word, “do you think ought to be
      done?”

      Aunt Hester again rustled the sheet, her voice was heard faintly
      pleading: “Done? How should I know?”

      Aunt Juley turned away satisfied, and closing the door with extra
      gentleness so as not to disturb dear Hester, let it slip through
      her fingers and fall to with a “crack.”

      Back in her own room, she stood at the window gazing at the moon
      over the trees in the Park, through a chink in the muslin
      curtains, close drawn lest anyone should see. And there, with her
      face all round and pouting in its pink cap, and her eyes wet, she
      thought of “dear Jolyon,” so old and so lonely, and how she could
      be of some use to him; and how he would come to love her, as she
      had never been loved since—since poor Septimus went away.



