      all Jaw. This was his house, and his affair; he should not budge!
      He looked at his watch, old and thin like himself; he had owned
      it fifty years. Past four already! And kissing the top of Holly’s
      head in passing, he went down to the hall. He wanted to get hold
      of her before she went up to give her lesson. At the first sound
      of wheels he stepped out into the porch, and saw at once that the
      victoria was empty.

      “The train’s in, sir; but the lady ’asn’t come.”

      Old Jolyon gave him a sharp upward look, his eyes seemed to push
      away that fat chap’s curiosity, and defy him to see the bitter
      disappointment he was feeling.

      “Very well,” he said, and turned back into the house. He went to
      his study and sat down, quivering like a leaf. What did this
      mean? She might have lost her train, but he knew well enough she
      hadn’t. “Good-bye, dear Uncle Jolyon.” Why “Good-bye” and not
      “Good-night”. And that hand of hers lingering in the air. And her
      kiss. What did it mean? Vehement alarm and irritation took
      possession of him. He got up and began to pace the Turkey carpet,
      between window and wall. She was going to give him up! He felt it
      for certain—and he defenceless. An old man wanting to look on
      beauty! It was ridiculous! Age closed his mouth, paralysed his
      power to fight. He had no right to what was warm and living, no
      right to anything but memories and sorrow. He could not plead
      with her; even an old man has his dignity. Defenceless! For an
      hour, lost to bodily fatigue, he paced up and down, past the bowl
      of carnations he had plucked, which mocked him with its scent. Of
      all things hard to bear, the prostration of will-power is
      hardest, for one who has always had his way. Nature had got him
      in its net, and like an unhappy fish he turned and swam at the
      meshes, here and there, found no hole, no breaking point. They
      brought him tea at five o’clock, and a letter. For a moment hope
      beat up in him. He cut the envelope with the butter knife, and
      read:

      “DEAREST UNCLE JOLYON,—I can’t bear to write anything that may
      disappoint you, but I was too cowardly to tell you last night. I
      feel I can’t come down and give Holly any more lessons, now that
      June is coming back. Some things go too deep to be forgotten. It
      has been such a joy to see you and Holly. Perhaps I shall still
      see you sometimes when you come up, though I’m sure it’s not good
      for you; I can see you are tiring yourself too much. I believe
      you ought to rest quite quietly all this hot weather, and now you
      have your son and June coming back you will be so happy. Thank
      you a million times for all your sweetness to me.

      “Lovingly your
      IRENE.”

      So, there it was! Not good for him to have pleasure and what he
      chiefly cared about; to try and put off feeling the inevitable
      end of all things, the approach of death with its stealthy,
      rustling footsteps. Not good for him! Not even she could see how
      she was his new lease of interest in life, the incarnation of all
      the beauty he felt slipping from him.

      His tea grew cold, his cigar remained unlit; and up and down he
      paced, torn between his dignity and his hold on life. Intolerable
      to be squeezed out slowly, without a say of your own, to live on
      when your will was in the hands of others bent on weighing you to
      the ground with care and love. Intolerable! He would see what
      telling her the truth would do—the truth that he wanted the sight
      of her more than just a lingering on. He sat down at his old
      bureau and took a pen. But he could not write. There was
      something revolting in having to plead like this; plead that she
      should warm his eyes with her beauty. It was tantamount to
      confessing dotage. He simply could not. And instead, he wrote:

      “I had hoped that the memory of old sores would not be allowed to
      stand in the way of what is a pleasure and a profit to me and my
      little grand-daughter. But old men learn to forego their whims;
      they are obliged to, even the whim to live must be foregone
      sooner or later; and perhaps the sooner the better.

      “My love to you,
      “JOLYON FORSYTE.”

      “Bitter,” he thought, “but I can’t help it. I’m tired.” He sealed
      and dropped it into the box for the evening post, and hearing it
      fall to the bottom, thought: “There goes all I’ve looked forward
      to!”

      That evening after dinner which he scarcely touched, after his
      cigar which he left half-smoked for it made him feel faint, he
      went very slowly upstairs and stole into the night-nursery. He
      sat down on the window-seat. A night-light was burning, and he
      could just see Holly’s face, with one hand underneath the cheek.
      An early cockchafer buzzed in the Japanese paper with which they
      had filled the grate, and one of the horses in the stable stamped
      restlessly. To sleep like that child! He pressed apart two rungs
      of the venetian blind and looked out. The moon was rising,
      blood-red. He had never seen so red a moon. The woods and fields
      out there were dropping to sleep too, in the last glimmer of the
      summer light. And beauty, like a spirit, walked. “I’ve had a long
      life,” he thought, “the best of nearly everything. I’m an
      ungrateful chap; I’ve seen a lot of beauty in my time. Poor young
      Bosinney said I had a sense of beauty. There’s a man in the moon
      to-night!” A moth went by, another, another. “Ladies in grey!” He
      closed his eyes. A feeling that he would never open them again
      beset him; he let it grow, let himself sink; then, with a shiver,
      dragged the lids up. There was something wrong with him, no
      doubt, deeply wrong; he would have to have the doctor after all.
      It didn’t much matter now! Into that coppice the moonlight would
      have crept; there would be shadows, and those shadows would be
      the only things awake. No birds, beasts, flowers, insects; Just
      the shadows —moving; “Ladies in grey!” Over that log they would
      climb; would whisper together. She and Bosinney! Funny thought!
      And the frogs and little things would whisper too! How the clock
      ticked, in here! It was all eerie—out there in the light of that
      red moon; in here with the little steady night-light and, the
      ticking clock and the nurse’s dressing-gown hanging from the edge
      of the screen, tall, like a woman’s figure. “Lady in grey!” And a
      very odd thought beset him: Did she exist? Had she ever come at
      all? Or was she but the emanation of all the beauty he had loved
      and must leave so soon? The violet-grey spirit with the dark eyes
      and the crown of amber hair, who walks the dawn and the
      moonlight, and at blue-bell time? What was she, who was she, did
      she exist? He rose and stood a moment clutching the window-sill,
      to give him a sense of reality again; then began tiptoeing
      towards the door. He stopped at the foot of the bed; and Holly,
      as if conscious of his eyes fixed on her, stirred, sighed, and
      curled up closer in defence. He tiptoed on and passed out into
      the dark passage; reached his room, undressed at once, and stood
      before a mirror in his night-shirt. What a scarecrow—with temples
      fallen in, and thin legs! His eyes resisted his own image, and a
      look of pride came on his face. All was in league to pull him
      down, even his reflection in the glass, but he was not down—yet!
      He got into bed, and lay a long time without sleeping, trying to
      reach resignation, only too well aware that fretting and
      disappointment were very bad for him.

      He woke in the morning so unrefreshed and strengthless that he
      sent for the doctor. After sounding him, the fellow pulled a face
      as long as your arm, and ordered him to stay in bed and give up
      smoking. That was no hardship; there was nothing to get up for,
      and when he felt ill, tobacco always lost its savour. He spent
      the morning languidly with the sun-blinds down, turning and
      re-turning _The Times_, not reading much, the dog Balthasar lying
      beside his bed. With his lunch they brought him a telegram,
      running thus:

      “Your letter received coming down this afternoon will be with you
      at four-thirty. Irene.”

      Coming down! After all! Then she did exist—and he was not
      deserted. Coming down! A glow ran through his limbs; his cheeks
      and forehead felt hot. He drank his soup, and pushed the
      tray-table away, lying very quiet until they had removed lunch
      and left him alone; but every now and then his eyes twinkled.
      Coming down! His heart beat fast, and then did not seem to beat
      at all. At three o’clock he got up and dressed deliberately,
      noiselessly. Holly and Mam’zelle would be in the schoolroom, and
      the servants asleep after their dinner, he shouldn’t wonder. He
      opened his door cautiously, and went downstairs. In the hall the
      dog Balthasar lay solitary, and, followed by him, old Jolyon
      passed into his study and out into the burning afternoon. He
      meant to go down and meet her in the coppice, but felt at once he
      could not manage that in this heat. He sat down instead under the
      oak tree by the swing, and the dog Balthasar, who also felt the
      heat, lay down beside him. He sat there smiling. What a revel of
      bright minutes! What a hum of insects, and cooing of pigeons! It
      was the quintessence of a summer day. Lovely! And he was
      happy—happy as a sand-boy, whatever that might be. She was
      coming; she had not given him up! He had everything in life he
      wanted—except a little more breath, and less weight—just here! He
      would see her when she emerged from the fernery, come swaying
      just a little, a violet-grey figure passing over the daisies and
      dandelions and “soldiers” on the lawn—the soldiers with their
      flowery crowns. He would not move, but she would come up to him
      and say: “Dear Uncle Jolyon, I am sorry!” and sit in the swing
      and let him look at her and tell her that he had not been very
      well but was all right now; and that dog would lick her hand.
      That dog knew his master was fond of her; that dog was a good
      dog.

      It was quite shady under the tree; the sun could not get at him,
      only make the rest of the world bright so that he could see the
      Grand Stand at Epsom away out there, very far, and the cows
      cropping the clover in the field and swishing at the flies with
      their tails. He smelled the scent of limes, and lavender. Ah!
      that was why there was such a racket of bees. They were
      excited—busy, as his heart was busy and excited. Drowsy, too,
      drowsy and drugged on honey and happiness; as his heart was
      drugged and drowsy. Summer—summer—they seemed saying; great bees
      and little bees, and the flies too!

      The stable clock struck four; in half an hour she would be here.
      He would have just one tiny nap, because he had had so little
      sleep of late; and then he would be fresh for her, fresh for
      youth and beauty, coming towards him across the sunlit lawn—lady
      in grey! And settling back in his chair he closed his eyes. Some
      thistle-down came on what little air there was, and pitched on
      his moustache more white than itself. He did not know; but his
      breathing stirred it, caught there. A ray of sunlight struck
      through and lodged on his boot. A bumble-bee alighted and
      strolled on the crown of his Panama hat. And the delicious surge
      of slumber reached the brain beneath that hat, and the head
      swayed forward and rested on his breast. Summer—summer! So went
      the hum.

      The stable clock struck the quarter past. The dog Balthasar
      stretched and looked up at his master. The thistledown no longer
      moved. The dog placed his chin over the sunlit foot. It did not
      stir. The dog withdrew his chin quickly, rose, and leaped on old
      Jolyon’s lap, looked in his face, whined; then, leaping down, sat
      on his haunches, gazing up. And suddenly he uttered a long, long
      howl.

      But the thistledown was still as death, and the face of his old
      master.

      Summer—summer—summer! The soundless footsteps on the grass! 1917




      IN CHANCERY

     Two households both alike in dignity,
     From ancient grudge, break into new mutiny.
                    —_Romeo and Juliet_

      TO JESSIE AND JOSEPH CONRAD




      PART 1

      CHAPTER I AT TIMOTHY’S


      The possessive instinct never stands still. Through florescence
      and feud, frosts and fires, it followed the laws of progression
      even in the Forsyte family which had believed it fixed for ever.
      Nor can it be dissociated from environment any more than the
      quality of potato from the soil.

      The historian of the English eighties and nineties will, in his
      good time, depict the somewhat rapid progression from
      self-contented and contained provincialism to still more
      self-contented if less contained imperialism—in other words, the
      “possessive” instinct of the nation on the move. And so, as if in
      conformity, was it with the Forsyte family. They were spreading
      not merely on the surface, but within.

      When, in 1895, Susan Hayman, the married Forsyte sister, followed
      her husband at the ludicrously low age of seventy-four, and was
      cremated, it made strangely little stir among the six old
      Forsytes left. For this apathy there were three causes. First:
      the almost surreptitious burial of old Jolyon in 1892 down at
      Robin Hill—first of the Forsytes to desert the family grave at
      Highgate. That burial, coming a year after Swithin’s entirely
      proper funeral, had occasioned a great deal of talk on Forsyte
      ’Change, the abode of Timothy Forsyte on the Bayswater Road,
      London, which still collected and radiated family gossip.
      Opinions ranged from the lamentation of Aunt Juley to the
      outspoken assertion of Francie that it was “a jolly good thing to
      stop all that stuffy Highgate business.” Uncle Jolyon in his
      later years—indeed, ever since the strange and lamentable affair
      between his granddaughter June’s lover, young Bosinney, and
      Irene, his nephew Soames Forsyte’s wife—had noticeably rapped the
      family’s knuckles; and that way of his own which he had always
      taken had begun to seem to them a little wayward. The philosophic
      vein in him, of course, had always been too liable to crop out of
      the strata of pure Forsyteism, so they were in a way prepared for
      his interment in a strange spot. But the whole thing was an odd
      business, and when the contents of his Will became current coin
      on Forsyte ’Change, a shiver had gone round the clan. Out of his
      estate (£145,304 gross, with liabilities £35 7s. 4d.) he had
      actually left £15,000 to “whomever do you think, my dear? To
      _Irene!_” that runaway wife of his nephew Soames; Irene, a woman
      who had almost disgraced the family, and—still more amazing was
      to him no blood relation. Not out and out, of course; only a life
      interest—only the income from it! Still, there it was; and old
      Jolyon’s claim to be the perfect Forsyte was ended once for all.
      That, then, was the first reason why the burial of Susan
      Hayman—at Woking—made little stir.

      The second reason was altogether more expansive and imperial.
      Besides the house on Campden Hill, Susan had a place (left her by
      Hayman when he died) just over the border in Hants, where the
      Hayman boys had learned to be such good shots and riders, as it
      was believed, which was of course nice for them, and creditable
      to everybody; and the fact of owning something really countrified
      seemed somehow to excuse the dispersion of her remains—though
      what could have put cremation into her head they could not think!
      The usual invitations, however, had been issued, and Soames had
      gone down and young Nicholas, and the Will had been quite
      satisfactory so far as it went, for she had only had a life
      interest; and everything had gone quite smoothly to the children
      in equal shares.

      The third reason why Susan’s burial made little stir was the most
      expansive of all. It was summed up daringly by Euphemia, the
      pale, the thin: “Well, _I_ think people have a right to their own
      bodies, even when they’re dead.” Coming from a daughter of
      Nicholas, a Liberal of the old school and most tyrannical, it was
      a startling remark—showing in a flash what a lot of water had run
      under bridges since the death of Aunt Ann in ’86, just when the
      proprietorship of Soames over his wife’s body was acquiring the
      uncertainty which had led to such disaster. Euphemia, of course,
      spoke like a child, and had no experience; for though well over
      thirty by now, her name was still Forsyte. But, making all
      allowances, her remark did undoubtedly show expansion of the
      principle of liberty, decentralisation and shift in the central
      point of possession from others to oneself. When Nicholas heard
      his daughter’s remark from Aunt Hester he had rapped out: “Wives
      and daughters! There’s no end to their liberty in these days. I
      knew that ‘Jackson’ case would lead to things—lugging in Habeas
      Corpus like that!” He had, of course, never really forgiven the
      Married Woman’s Property Act, which would so have interfered with
      him if he had not mercifully married before it was passed. But,
      in truth, there was no denying the revolt among the younger
      Forsytes against being owned by others; that, as it were,
      Colonial disposition to own oneself, which is the paradoxical
      forerunner of Imperialism, was making progress all the time. They
      were all now married, except George, confirmed to the Turf and
      the Iseeum Club; Francie, pursuing her musical career in a studio
      off the King’s Road, Chelsea, and still taking “lovers” to
      dances; Euphemia, living at home and complaining of Nicholas; and
      those two Dromios, Giles and Jesse Hayman. Of the third
      generation there were not very many—young Jolyon had three,
      Winifred Dartie four, young Nicholas six already, young Roger had
      one, Marian Tweetyman one; St. John Hayman two. But the rest of
      the sixteen married—Soames, Rachel and Cicely of James’ family;
      Eustace and Thomas of Roger’s; Ernest, Archibald and Florence of
      Nicholas’. Augustus and Annabel Spender of the Hayman’s—were
      going down the years unreproduced.

      Thus, of the ten old Forsytes twenty-one young Forsytes had been
      born; but of the twenty-one young Forsytes there were as yet only
      seventeen descendants; and it already seemed unlikely that there
      would be more than a further unconsidered trifle or so. A student
      of statistics must have noticed that the birth rate had varied in
      accordance with the rate of interest for your money. Grandfather
      “Superior Dosset” Forsyte in the early nineteenth century had
      been getting ten per cent. for his, hence ten children. Those
      ten, leaving out the four who had not married, and Juley, whose
      husband Septimus Small had, of course, died almost at once, had
      averaged from four to five per cent. for theirs, and produced
      accordingly. The twenty-one whom they produced were now getting
      barely three per cent. in the Consols to which their father had
      mostly tied the Settlements they made to avoid death duties, and
      the six of them who had been reproduced had seventeen children,
      or just the proper two and five-sixths per stem.

      There were other reasons, too, for this mild reproduction. A
      distrust of their earning powers, natural where a sufficiency is
      guaranteed, together with the knowledge that their fathers did
      not die, kept them cautious. If one had children and not much
      income, the standard of taste and comfort must of necessity go
      down; what was enough for two was not enough for four, and so
      on—it would be better to wait and see what Father did. Besides,
      it was nice to be able to take holidays unhampered. Sooner in
      fact than own children, they preferred to concentrate on the
      ownership of themselves, conforming to the growing tendency _fin
      de siècle_, as it was called. In this way, little risk was run,
      and one would be able to have a motor-car. Indeed, Eustace
      already had one, but it had shaken him horribly, and broken one
      of his eye teeth; so that it would be better to wait till they
      were a little safer. In the meantime, no more children! Even
      young Nicholas was drawing in his horns, and had made no addition
      to his six for quite three years.

      The corporate decay, however, of the Forsytes, their dispersion
      rather, of which all this was symptomatic, had not advanced so
      far as to prevent a rally when Roger Forsyte died in 1899. It had
      been a glorious summer, and after holidays abroad and at the sea
      they were practically all back in London, when Roger with a touch
      of his old originality had suddenly breathed his last at his own
      house in Princes Gardens. At Timothy’s it was whispered sadly
      that poor Roger had always been eccentric about his digestion—had
      he not, for instance, preferred German mutton to all the other
      brands?

      Be that as it may, his funeral at Highgate had been perfect, and
      coming away from it Soames Forsyte made almost mechanically for
      his Uncle Timothy’s in the Bayswater Road. The “Old Things”—Aunt
      Juley and Aunt Hester—would like to hear about it. His
      father—James—at eighty-eight had not felt up to the fatigue of
      the funeral; and Timothy himself, of course, had not gone; so
      that Nicholas had been the only brother present. Still, there had
      been a fair gathering; and it would cheer Aunts Juley and Hester
      up to know. The kindly thought was not unmixed with the
      inevitable longing to get something out of everything you do,
      which is the chief characteristic of Forsytes, and indeed of the
      saner elements in every nation. In this practice of taking family
      matters to Timothy’s in the Bayswater Road, Soames was but
      following in the footsteps of his father, who had been in the
      habit of going at least once a week to see his sisters at
      Timothy’s, and had only given it up when he lost his nerve at
      eighty-six, and could not go out without Emily. To go with Emily
      was of no use, for who could really talk to anyone in the
      presence of his own wife? Like James in the old days, Soames
      found time to go there nearly every Sunday, and sit in the little
      drawing-room into which, with his undoubted taste, he had
      introduced a good deal of change and china not quite up to his
      own fastidious mark, and at least two rather doubtful Barbizon
      pictures, at Christmastides. He himself, who had done extremely
      well with the Barbizons, had for some years past moved towards
      the Marises, Israels, and Mauve, and was hoping to do better. In
      the riverside house which he now inhabited near Mapledurham he
      had a gallery, beautifully hung and lighted, to which few London
      dealers were strangers. It served, too, as a Sunday afternoon
      attraction in those week-end parties which his sisters, Winifred
      or Rachel, occasionally organised for him. For though he was but
      a taciturn showman, his quiet collected determinism seldom failed
      to influence his guests, who knew that his reputation was
      grounded not on mere aesthetic fancy, but on his power of gauging
      the future of market values. When he went to Timothy’s he almost
      always had some little tale of triumph over a dealer to unfold,
      and dearly he loved that coo of pride with which his aunts would
      greet it. This afternoon, however, he was differently animated,
      coming from Roger’s funeral in his neat dark clothes—not quite
      black, for after all an uncle was but an uncle, and his soul
      abhorred excessive display of feeling. Leaning back in a
      marqueterie chair and gazing down his uplifted nose at the
      sky-blue walls plastered with gold frames, he was noticeably
      silent. Whether because he had been to a funeral or not, the
      peculiar Forsyte build of his face was seen to the best advantage
      this afternoon—a face concave and long, with a jaw which divested
      of flesh would have seemed extravagant: altogether a chinny face
      though not at all ill-looking. He was feeling more strongly than
      ever that Timothy’s was hopelessly “rum-ti-too” and the souls of
      his aunts dismally mid-Victorian. The subject on which alone he
      wanted to talk—his own undivorced position—was unspeakable. And
      yet it occupied his mind to the exclusion of all else. It was
      only since the Spring that this had been so and a new feeling
      grown up which was egging him on towards what he knew might well
      be folly in a Forsyte of forty-five. More and more of late he had
      been conscious that he was “getting on.” The fortune already
      considerable when he conceived the house at Robin Hill which had
      finally wrecked his marriage with Irene, had mounted with
      surprising vigour in the twelve lonely years during which he had
      devoted himself to little else. He was worth to-day well over a
      hundred thousand pounds, and had no one to leave it to—no real
      object for going on with what was his religion. Even if he were
      to relax his efforts, money made money, and he felt that he would
      have a hundred and fifty thousand before he knew where he was.
      There had always been a strongly domestic, philoprogenitive side
      to Soames; baulked and frustrated, it had hidden itself away, but
      now had crept out again in this his “prime of life.” Concreted
      and focussed of late by the attraction of a girl’s undoubted
      beauty, it had become a veritable prepossession.

      And this girl was French, not likely to lose her head, or accept
      any unlegalised position. Moreover, Soames himself disliked the
      thought of that. He had tasted of the sordid side of sex during
      those long years of forced celibacy, secretively, and always with
      disgust, for he was fastidious, and his sense of law and order
      innate. He wanted no hole and corner liaison. A marriage at the
      Embassy in Paris, a few months’ travel, and he could bring
      Annette back quite separated from a past which in truth was not
      too distinguished, for she only kept the accounts in her mother’s
      Soho Restaurant; he could bring her back as something very new
      and chic with her French taste and self-possession, to reign at
      “The Shelter” near Mapledurham. On Forsyte ’Change and among his
      riverside friends it would be current that he had met a charming
      French girl on his travels and married her. There would be the
      flavour of romance, and a certain _cachet_ about a French wife.
      No! He was not at all afraid of that. It was only this cursed
      undivorced condition of his, and—and the question whether Annette
      would take him, which he dared not put to the touch until he had
      a clear and even dazzling future to offer her.

      In his aunts’ drawing-room he heard with but muffled ears those
      usual questions: How was his dear father? Not going out, of
      course, now that the weather was turning chilly? Would Soames be
      sure to tell him that Hester had found boiled holly leaves most
      comforting for that pain in her side; a poultice every three
      hours, with red flannel afterwards. And could he relish just a
      little pot of their very best prune preserve—it was so delicious
      this year, and had such a wonderful effect. Oh! and about the
      Darties—_had_ Soames heard that dear Winifred was having a most
      distressing time with Montague? Timothy thought she really ought
      to have protection It was said—but Soames mustn’t take this for
      certain—that he had given some of Winifred’s jewellery to a
      dreadful dancer. It was such a bad example for dear Val just as
      he was going to college. Soames had not heard? Oh, but he must go
      and see his sister and look into it at once! And did he think
      these Boers were really going to resist? Timothy was in quite a
      stew about it. The price of Consols was so high, and he had such
      a lot of money in them. Did Soames think they must go down if
      there was a war? Soames nodded. But it would be over very
      quickly. It would be so bad for Timothy if it wasn’t. And of
      course Soames’ dear father would feel it very much at his age.
      Luckily poor dear Roger had been spared this dreadful anxiety.
      And Aunt Juley with a little handkerchief wiped away the large
      tear trying to climb the permanent pout on her now quite withered
      left cheek; she was remembering dear Roger, and all his
      originality, and how he used to stick pins into her when they
      were little together. Aunt Hester, with her instinct for avoiding
      the unpleasant, here chimed in: Did Soames think they would make
      Mr. Chamberlain Prime Minister at once? He would settle it all so
      quickly. She would like to see that old Kruger sent to St.
      Helena. She could remember so well the news of Napoleon’s death,
      and what a relief it had been to his grandfather. Of course she
      and Juley—“We were in pantalettes then, my dear”—had not felt it
      much at the time.

      Soames took a cup of tea from her, drank it quickly, and ate
      three of those macaroons for which Timothy’s was famous. His
      faint, pale, supercilious smile had deepened just a little.
      Really, his family remained hopelessly provincial, however much
      of London they might possess between them. In these go-ahead days
      their provincialism stared out even more than it used to. Why,
      old Nicholas was still a Free Trader, and a member of that
      antediluvian home of Liberalism, the Remove Club—though, to be
      sure, the members were pretty well all Conservatives now, or he
      himself could not have joined; and Timothy, they said, still wore
      a nightcap. Aunt Juley spoke again. Dear Soames was looking so
      well, hardly a day older than he did when dear Ann died, and they
      were all there together, dear Jolyon, and dear Swithin, and dear
      Roger. She paused and caught the tear which had climbed the pout
      on her right cheek. Did he—did he ever hear anything of Irene
      nowadays? Aunt Hester visibly interposed her shoulder. Really,
      Juley was always saying something! The smile left Soames’ face,
      and he put his cup down. Here was his subject broached for him,
      and for all his desire to expand, he could not take advantage.

      Aunt Juley went on rather hastily:

      “They say dear Jolyon first left her that fifteen thousand out
      and out; then of course he saw it would not be right, and made it
      for her life only.”

      Had Soames heard that?

      Soames nodded.

      “Your cousin Jolyon is a widower now. He is her trustee; you knew
      that, of course?”

      Soames shook his head. He did know, but wished to show no
      interest. Young Jolyon and he had not met since the day of
      Bosinney’s death.

      “He must be quite middle-aged by now,” went on Aunt Juley
      dreamily. “Let me see, he was born when your dear uncle lived in
      Mount Street; long before they went to Stanhope Gate in December.
      Just before that dreadful Commune. Over fifty! Fancy that! Such a
      pretty baby, and we were all so proud of him; the very first of
      you all.” Aunt Juley sighed, and a lock of not quite her own hair
      came loose and straggled, so that Aunt Hester gave a little
      shiver. Soames rose, he was experiencing a curious piece of
      self-discovery. That old wound to his pride and self-esteem was
      not yet closed. He had come thinking he could talk of it, even
      wanting to talk of his fettered condition, and—behold! he was
      shrinking away from this reminder by Aunt Juley, renowned for her
      Malapropisms.

      Oh, Soames was not going already!

      Soames smiled a little vindictively, and said:

      “Yes. Good-bye. Remember me to Uncle Timothy!” And, leaving a
      cold kiss on each forehead, whose wrinkles seemed to try and
      cling to his lips as if longing to be kissed away, he left them
      looking brightly after him—dear Soames, it had been so good of
      him to come to-day, when they were not feeling very...!

      With compunction tweaking at his chest Soames descended the
      stairs, where was always that rather pleasant smell of camphor
      and port wine, and house where draughts are not permitted. The
      poor old things—he had not meant to be unkind! And in the street
      he instantly forgot them, repossessed by the image of Annette and
      the thought of the cursed coil around him. Why had he not pushed
      the thing through and obtained divorce when that wretched
      Bosinney was run over, and there was evidence galore for the
      asking! And he turned towards his sister Winifred Dartie’s
      residence in Green Street, Mayfair.




      CHAPTER II EXIT A MAN OF THE WORLD


      That a man of the world so subject to the vicissitudes of
      fortunes as Montague Dartie should still be living in a house he
      had inhabited twenty years at least would have been more
      noticeable if the rent, rates, taxes, and repairs of that house
      had not been defrayed by his father-in-law. By that simple if
      wholesale device James Forsyte had secured a certain stability in
      the lives of his daughter and his grandchildren. After all, there
      is something invaluable about a safe roof over the head of a
      sportsman so dashing as Dartie. Until the events of the last few
      days he had been almost-supernaturally steady all this year. The
      fact was he had acquired a half share in a filly of George
      Forsyte’s, who had gone irreparably on the turf, to the horror of
      Roger, now stilled by the grave. Sleeve-links, by Martyr, out of
      Shirt-on-fire, by Suspender, was a bay filly, three years old,
      who for a variety of reasons had never shown her true form. With
      half ownership of this hopeful animal, all the idealism latent
      somewhere in Dartie, as in every other man, had put up its head,
      and kept him quietly ardent for months past. When a man has some
      thing good to live for it is astonishing how sober he becomes;
      and what Dartie had was really good—a three to one chance for an
      autumn handicap, publicly assessed at twenty-five to one. The
      old-fashioned heaven was a poor thing beside it, and his shirt
      was on the daughter of Shirt-on-fire. But how much more than his
      shirt depended on this granddaughter of Suspender! At that roving
      age of forty-five, trying to Forsytes—and, though perhaps less
      distinguishable from any other age, trying even to
      Darties—Montague had fixed his current fancy on a dancer. It was
      no mean passion, but without money, and a good deal of it, likely
      to remain a love as airy as her skirts; and Dartie never had any
      money, subsisting miserably on what he could beg or borrow from
      Winifred—a woman of character, who kept him because he was the
      father of her children, and from a lingering admiration for those
      now-dying Wardour Street good looks which in their youth had
      fascinated her. She, together with anyone else who would lend him
      anything, and his losses at cards and on the turf (extraordinary
      how some men make a good thing out of losses!) were his whole
      means of subsistence; for James was now too old and nervous to
      approach, and Soames too formidably adamant. It is not too much
      to say that Dartie had been living on hope for months. He had
      never been fond of money for itself, had always despised the
      Forsytes with their investing habits, though careful to make such
      use of them as he could. What he liked about money was what it
      bought—personal sensation.

      “No real sportsman cares for money,” he would say, borrowing a
      “pony” if it was no use trying for a “monkey.” There was
      something delicious about Montague Dartie. He was, as George
      Forsyte said, a “daisy.”

      The morning of the Handicap dawned clear and bright, the last day
      of September, and Dartie who had travelled to Newmarket the night
      before, arrayed himself in spotless checks and walked to an
      eminence to see his half of the filly take her final canter: If
      she won he would be a cool three thou. in pocket—a poor enough
      recompense for the sobriety and patience of these weeks of hope,
      while they had been nursing her for this race. But he had not
      been able to afford more. Should he “lay it off” at the eight to
      one to which she had advanced? This was his single thought while
      the larks sang above him, and the grassy downs smelled sweet, and
      the pretty filly passed, tossing her head and glowing like satin.

      After all, if he lost it would not be he who paid, and to “lay it
      off” would reduce his winnings to some fifteen hundred—hardly
      enough to purchase a dancer out and out. Even more potent was the
      itch in the blood of all the Darties for a real flutter. And
      turning to George he said: “She’s a clipper. She’ll win hands
      down; I shall go the whole hog.” George, who had laid off every
      penny, and a few besides, and stood to win, however it came out,
      grinned down on him from his bulky height, with the words: “So
      ho, my wild one!” for after a chequered apprenticeship weathered
      with the money of a deeply complaining Roger, his Forsyte blood
      was beginning to stand him in good stead in the profession of
      owner.

      There are moments of disillusionment in the lives of men from
      which the sensitive recorder shrinks. Suffice it to say that the
      good thing fell down. Sleeve-links finished in the ruck. Dartie’s
      shirt was lost.

      Between the passing of these things and the day when Soames
      turned his face towards Green Street, what had not happened!

      When a man with the constitution of Montague Dartie has exercised
      self-control for months from religious motives, and remains
      unrewarded, he does not curse God and die, he curses God and
      lives, to the distress of his family.

      Winifred—a plucky woman, if a little too fashionable—who had
      borne the brunt of him for exactly twenty-one years, had never
      really believed that he would do what he now did. Like so many
      wives, she thought she knew the worst, but she had not yet known
      him in his forty-fifth year, when he, like other men, felt that
      it was now or never. Paying on the 2nd of October a visit of
      inspection to her jewel case, she was horrified to observe that
      her woman’s crown and glory was gone—the pearls which Montague
      had given her in ’86, when Benedict was born, and which James had
      been compelled to pay for in the spring of ’87, to save scandal.
      She consulted her husband at once. He “pooh-poohed” the matter.
      They would turn up! Nor till she said sharply: “Very well, then,
      Monty, I shall go down to Scotland Yard _myself_,” did he consent
      to take the matter in hand. Alas! that the steady and resolved
      continuity of design necessary to the accomplishment of sweeping
      operations should be liable to interruption by drink. That night
      Dartie returned home without a care in the world or a particle of
      reticence. Under normal conditions Winifred would merely have
      locked her door and let him sleep it off, but torturing suspense
      about her pearls had caused her to wait up for him. Taking a
      small revolver from his pocket and holding on to the dining
      table, he told her at once that he did not care a cursh whether
      she lived s’long as she was quiet; but he himself wash tired
      orsdquo; life. Winifred, holding onto the other side of the
      dining table, answered:

      “Don’t be a clown, Monty. Have you been to Scotland Yard?”

      Placing the revolver against his chest, Dartie had pulled the
      trigger several times. It was not loaded. Dropping it with an
      imprecation, he had muttered: “For shake o’ the children,” and
      sank into a chair. Winifred, having picked up the revolver, gave
      him some soda water. The liquor had a magical effect. Life had
      illused him; Winifred had never “unshtood’m.” If he hadn’t the
      right to take the pearls he had given her himself, who had? That
      Spanish filly had got’m. If Winifred had any ’jection he w’d
      cut—her—throat. What was the matter with that? (Probably the
      first use of that celebrated phrase—so obscure are the origins of
      even the most classical language!)

      Winifred, who had learned self-containment in a hard school,
      looked up at him, and said: “Spanish filly! Do you mean that girl
      we saw dancing in the Pandemonium Ballet? Well, you are a thief
      and a blackguard.” It had been the last straw on a sorely loaded
      consciousness; reaching up from his chair Dartie seized his
      wife’s arm, and recalling the achievements of his boyhood,
      twisted it. Winifred endured the agony with tears in her eyes,
      but no murmur. Watching for a moment of weakness, she wrenched it
      free; then placing the dining table between them, said between
      her teeth: “You are the limit, Monty.” (Undoubtedly the inception
      of that phrase—so is English formed under the stress of
      circumstances.) Leaving Dartie with foam on his dark moustache
      she went upstairs, and, after locking her door and bathing her
      arm in hot water, lay awake all night, thinking of her pearls
      adorning the neck of another, and of the consideration her
      husband had presumably received therefor.

      The man of the world awoke with a sense of being lost to that
      world, and a dim recollection of having been called a “limit.” He
      sat for half an hour in the dawn and the armchair where he had
      slept—perhaps the unhappiest half-hour he had ever spent, for
      even to a Dartie there is something tragic about an end. And he
      knew that he had reached it. Never again would he sleep in his
      dining-room and wake with the light filtering through those
      curtains bought by Winifred at Nickens and Jarveys with the money
      of James. Never again eat a devilled kidney at that rose-wood
      table, after a roll in the sheets and a hot bath. He took his
      note case from his dress coat pocket. Four hundred pounds, in
      fives and tens—the remainder of the proceeds of his half of
      Sleeve-links, sold last night, cash down, to George Forsyte, who,
      having won over the race, had not conceived the sudden dislike to
      the animal which he himself now felt. The ballet was going to
      Buenos Aires the day after to-morrow, and he was going too. Full
      value for the pearls had not yet been received; he was only at
      the soup.

      He stole upstairs. Not daring to have a bath, or shave (besides,
      the water would be cold), he changed his clothes and packed
      stealthily all he could. It was hard to leave so many shining
      boots, but one must sacrifice something. Then, carrying a valise
      in either hand, he stepped out onto the landing. The house was
      very quiet—that house where he had begotten his four children. It
      was a curious moment, this, outside the room of his wife, once
      admired, if not perhaps loved, who had called him “the limit.” He
      steeled himself with that phrase, and tiptoed on; but the next
      door was harder to pass. It was the room his daughters slept in.
      Maud was at school, but Imogen would be lying there; and moisture
      came into Dartie’s early morning eyes. She was the most like him
      of the four, with her dark hair, and her luscious brown glance.
      Just coming out, a pretty thing! He set down the two valises.
      This almost formal abdication of fatherhood hurt him. The morning
      light fell on a face which worked with real emotion. Nothing so
      false as penitence moved him; but genuine paternal feeling, and
      that melancholy of “never again.” He moistened his lips; and
      complete irresolution for a moment paralysed his legs in their
      check trousers. It was hard—hard to be thus compelled to leave
      his home! “D—-nit!” he muttered, “I never thought it would come
      to this.” Noises above warned him that the maids were beginning
      to get up. And grasping the two valises, he tiptoed on
      downstairs. His cheeks were wet, and the knowledge of that was
      comforting, as though it guaranteed the genuineness of his
      sacrifice. He lingered a little in the rooms below, to pack all
      the cigars he had, some papers, a crush hat, a silver cigarette
      box, a Ruff’s Guide. Then, mixing himself a stiff whisky and
      soda, and lighting a cigarette, he stood hesitating before a
      photograph of his two girls, in a silver frame. It belonged to
      Winifred. “Never mind,” he thought; “she can get another taken,
      and I can’t!” He slipped it into the valise. Then, putting on his
      hat and overcoat, he took two others, his best malacca cane, an
      umbrella, and opened the front door. Closing it softly behind
      him, he walked out, burdened as he had never been in all his
      life, and made his way round the corner to wait there for an
      early cab to come by.

      Thus had passed Montague Dartie in the forty-fifth year of his
      age from the house which he had called his own.

      When Winifred came down, and realised that he was not in the
      house, her first feeling was one of dull anger that he should
      thus elude the reproaches she had carefully prepared in those
      long wakeful hours. He had gone off to Newmarket or Brighton,
      with that woman as likely as not. Disgusting! Forced to a
      complete reticence before Imogen and the servants, and aware that
      her father’s nerves would never stand the disclosure, she had
      been unable to refrain from going to Timothy’s that afternoon,
      and pouring out the story of the pearls to Aunts Juley and Hester
      in utter confidence. It was only on the following morning that
      she noticed the disappearance of that photograph. What did it
      mean? Careful examination of her husband’s relics prompted the
      thought that he had gone for good. As that conclusion hardened
      she stood quite still in the middle of his dressing-room, with
      all the drawers pulled out, to try and realise what she was
      feeling. By no means easy! Though he was “the limit” he was yet
      her property, and for the life of her she could not but feel the
      poorer. To be widowed yet not widowed at forty-two; with four
      children; made conspicuous, an object of commiseration! Gone to
      the arms of a Spanish Jade! Memories, feelings, which she had
      thought quite dead, revived within her, painful, sullen,
      tenacious. Mechanically she closed drawer after drawer, went to
      her bed, lay on it, and buried her face in the pillows. She did
      not cry. What was the use of that? When she got off her bed to go
      down to lunch she felt as if only one thing could do her good,
      and that was to have Val home. He—her eldest boy—who was to go to
      Oxford next month at James’ expense, was at Littlehampton taking
      his final gallops with his trainer for Smalls, as he would have
      phrased it following his father’s diction. She caused a telegram
      to be sent to him.

      “I must see about his clothes,” she said to Imogen; “I can’t have
      him going up to Oxford all anyhow. Those boys are so particular.”

      “Val’s got heaps of things,” Imogen answered.

      “I know; but they want overhauling. I hope he’ll come.”

      “He’ll come like a shot, Mother. But he’ll probably skew his
      Exam.”

      “I can’t help that,” said Winifred. “I want him.”

      With an innocent shrewd look at her mother’s face, Imogen kept
      silence. It was father, of course! Val did come “like a shot” at
      six o’clock.

      Imagine a cross between a pickle and a Forsyte and you have young
      Publius Valerius Dartie. A youth so named could hardly turn out
      otherwise. When he was born, Winifred, in the heyday of spirits,
      and the craving for distinction, had determined that her children
      should have names such as no others had ever had. (It was a
      mercy—she felt now—that she had just not named Imogen Thisbe.)
      But it was to George Forsyte, always a wag, that Val’s
      christening was due. It so happened that Dartie, dining with him
      a week after the birth of his son and heir, had mentioned this
      aspiration of Winifred’s.

      “Call him Cato,” said George, “it’ll be damned piquant!” He had
      just won a tenner on a horse of that name.

      “Cato!” Dartie had replied—they were a little ‘on’ as the phrase
      was even in those days—“it’s not a Christian name.”

      “Halo you!” George called to a waiter in knee breeches. “Bring me
      the _Encyc’pedia Brit_. from the Library, letter C.”

      The waiter brought it.

      “Here you are!” said George, pointing with his cigar: “Cato
      Publius Valerius by Virgil out of Lydia. That’s what you want.
      Publius Valerius is Christian enough.”

      Dartie, on arriving home, had informed Winifred. She had been
      charmed. It was so “chic.” And Publius Valerius became the baby’s
      name, though it afterwards transpired that they had got hold of
      the inferior Cato. In 1890, however, when little Publius was
      nearly ten, the word “chic” went out of fashion, and sobriety
      came in; Winifred began to have doubts. They were confirmed by
      little Publius himself who returned from his first term at school
      complaining that life was a burden to him—they called him Pubby.
      Winifred—a woman of real decision—promptly changed his school and
      his name to Val, the Publius being dropped even as an initial.

      At nineteen he was a limber, freckled youth with a wide mouth,
      light eyes, long dark lashes; a rather charming smile,
      considerable knowledge of what he should not know, and no
      experience of what he ought to do. Few boys had more narrowly
      escaped being expelled—the engaging rascal. After kissing his
      mother and pinching Imogen, he ran upstairs three at a time, and
      came down four, dressed for dinner. He was awfully sorry, but his
      “trainer,” who had come up too, had asked him to dine at the
      Oxford and Cambridge; it wouldn’t do to miss—the old chap would
      be hurt. Winifred let him go with an unhappy pride. She had
      wanted him at home, but it was very nice to know that his tutor
      was so fond of him. He went out with a wink at Imogen, saying: “I
      say, Mother, could I have two plover’s eggs when I come
      in?—cook’s got some. They top up so jolly well. Oh! and look
      here—have you any money?—I had to borrow a fiver from old
      Snobby.”

      Winifred, looking at him with fond shrewdness, answered:

      “My dear, you _are_ naughty about money. But you shouldn’t pay
      him to-night, anyway; you’re his guest. How nice and slim he
      looked in his white waistcoat, and his dark thick lashes!”

      “Oh, but we may go to the theatre, you see, Mother; and I think I
      ought to stand the tickets; he’s always hard up, you know.”

      Winifred produced a five-pound note, saying:

      “Well, perhaps you’d better pay him, but you mustn’t stand the
      tickets too.”

      Val pocketed the fiver.

      “If I do, I can’t,” he said. “Good-night, Mum!”

      He went out with his head up and his hat cocked joyously,
      sniffing the air of Piccadilly like a young hound loosed into
      covert. Jolly good biz! After that mouldy old slow hole down
      there!

      He found his “tutor,” not indeed at the Oxford and Cambridge, but
      at the Goat’s Club. This “tutor” was a year older than himself, a
      good-looking youth, with fine brown eyes, and smooth dark hair, a
      small mouth, an oval face, languid, immaculate, cool to a degree,
      one of those young men who without effort establish moral
      ascendancy over their companions. He had missed being expelled
      from school a year before Val, had spent that year at Oxford, and
      Val could almost see a halo round his head. His name was Crum,
      and no one could get through money quicker. It seemed to be his
      only aim in life—dazzling to young Val, in whom, however, the
      Forsyte would stand apart, now and then, wondering where the
      value for that money was.

      They dined quietly, in style and taste; left the Club smoking
      cigars, with just two bottles inside them, and dropped into
      stalls at the Liberty. For Val the sound of comic songs, the
      sight of lovely legs were fogged and interrupted by haunting
      fears that he would never equal Crum’s quiet dandyism. His
      idealism was roused; and when that is so, one is never quite at
      ease. Surely he had too wide a mouth, not the best cut of
      waistcoat, no braid on his trousers, and his lavender gloves had
      no thin black stitchings down the back. Besides, he laughed too
      much—Crum never laughed, he only smiled, with his regular dark
      brows raised a little so that they formed a gable over his just
      drooped lids. No! he would never be Crum’s equal. All the same it
      was a jolly good show, and Cynthia Dark simply ripping. Between
      the acts Crum regaled him with particulars of Cynthia’s private
      life, and the awful knowledge became Val’s that, if he liked,
      Crum could go behind. He simply longed to say: “I say, take me!”
      but dared not, because of his deficiencies; and this made the
      last act or two almost miserable. On coming out Crum said: “It’s
      half an hour before they close; let’s go on to the Pandemonium.”
      They took a hansom to travel the hundred yards, and seats costing
      seven-and-six apiece because they were going to stand, and walked
      into the Promenade. It was in these little things, this utter
      negligence of money that Crum had such engaging polish. The
      ballet was on its last legs and night, and the traffic of the
      Promenade was suffering for the moment. Men and women were
      crowded in three rows against the barrier. The whirl and dazzle
      on the stage, the half dark, the mingled tobacco fumes and
      women’s scent, all that curious lure to promiscuity which belongs
      to Promenades, began to free young Val from his idealism. He
      looked admiringly in a young woman’s face, saw she was not young,
      and quickly looked away. Shades of Cynthia Dark! The young
      woman’s arm touched his unconsciously; there was a scent of musk
      and mignonette. Val looked round the corner of his lashes.
      Perhaps she _was_ young, after all. Her foot trod on his; she
      begged his pardon. He said:

      “Not at all; jolly good ballet, isn’t it?”

      “Oh, I’m tired of it; aren’t you?”

      Young Val smiled—his wide, rather charming smile. Beyond that he
      did not go—not yet convinced. The Forsyte in him stood out for
      greater certainty. And on the stage the ballet whirled its
      kaleidoscope of snow-white, salmon-pink, and emerald-green and
      violet and seemed suddenly to freeze into a stilly spangled
      pyramid. Applause broke out, and it was over! Maroon curtains had
      cut it off. The semi-circle of men and women round the barrier
      broke up, the young woman’s arm pressed his. A little way off
      disturbance seemed centring round a man with a pink carnation;
      Val stole another glance at the young woman, who was looking
      towards it. Three men, unsteady, emerged, walking arm in arm. The
      one in the centre wore the pink carnation, a white waistcoat, a
      dark moustache; he reeled a little as he walked. Crum’s voice
      said slow and level: “Look at that bounder, he’s screwed!” Val
      turned to look. The “bounder” had disengaged his arm, and was
      pointing straight at them. Crum’s voice, level as ever, said:

      “He seems to know you!” The “bounder” spoke:

      “H’llo!” he said. “You f’llows, look! There’s my young rascal of
      a son!”

      Val saw. It was his father! He could have sunk into the crimson
      carpet. It was not the meeting in this place, not even that his
      father was “screwed”. it was Crum’s word “bounder,” which, as by
      heavenly revelation, he perceived at that moment to be true. Yes,
      his father looked a bounder with his dark good looks, and his
      pink carnation, and his square, self-assertive walk. And without
      a word he ducked behind the young woman and slipped out of the
      Promenade. He heard the word, “Val!” behind him, and ran down
      deep-carpeted steps past the “chuckersout,” into the Square.

      To be ashamed of his own father is perhaps the bitterest
      experience a young man can go through. It seemed to Val, hurrying
      away, that his career had ended before it had begun. How could he
      go up to Oxford now amongst all those chaps, those splendid
      friends of Crum’s, who would know that his father was a
      “bounder”. And suddenly he hated Crum. Who the devil was Crum, to
