at my refusal, jealous of my freedom, he stabbed me.” 

“The Baron? You mean — ?” 

“The Bloody Baron, yes,” said the Gray Lady, and she 
lifted aside the cloak she wore to reveal a single dark 
wound in her white chest. “When he saw what he had 
done, he was overcome with remorse. He took the 
weapon that had claimed my life, and used it to kill 
himself. All these centuries later, he wears his chains 
as an act of penitence ... as he should,” she added 
bitterly. 

“And . . . and the diadem?” 

“It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the 
Baron blundering through the forest toward me. 
Concealed inside a hollow tree. 

“A hollow tree?” repeated Harry. “What tree? Where 
was this?” 

“A forest in Albania. A lonely place I thought was far 
beyond my mother’s reach.” 

“Albania,” repeated Harry. Sense was emerging 
miraculously from confusion, and now he understood 
why she was telling him what she had denied 
Dumbledore and Flitwick. “You’ve already told 
someone this story, haven’t you? Another student?” 
Page | 697 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




She closed her eyes and nodded. 



“I had ... no idea. . . . He was . . . flattering. He seemed 
to ... to understand ... to sympathize. ...” 

Yes, Harry thought, Tom Riddle would certainly have 
understood Helena Ravenclaw’s desire to possess 
fabulous objects to which she had little right. 

“Well, you weren’t the first person Riddle wormed 
things out of,” Harry muttered. “He could be 
charming when he wanted. ...” 

So Voldemort had managed to wheedle the location of 
the lost diadem out of the Gray Lady. He had traveled 
to that far-flung forest and retrieved the diadem from 
its hiding place, perhaps as soon as he left Hogwarts, 
before he even started work at Borgin and Burkes. 

And wouldn’t those secluded Albanian woods have 
seemed an excellent refuge when, so much later, 
Voldemort had needed a place to lie low, undisturbed, 
for ten long years? 

But the diadem, once it became his precious Horcrux, 
had not been left in that lowly tree. ... No, the diadem 
had been returned secretly to its true home, and 
Voldemort must have put it there — 

“ — the night he asked for a job!” said Harry, finishing 
his thought. 

“I beg your pardon?” 

“He hid the diadem in the castle, the night he asked 
Dumbledore to let him teach!” said Harry. Saying it 
out loud enabled him to make sense of it all. “He 
must’ve hidden the diadem on his way up to, or down 
from, Dumbledore ’s office! But it was still worth trying 
Page | 698 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




to get the job — then he might’ve got the chance to 
nick Gryffindor’s sword as well — thank you, thanks!” 



Harry left her floating there, looking utterly 
bewildered. As he rounded the corner back into the 
entrance hall, he checked his watch. It was five 
minutes until midnight, and though he now knew 
what the last Horcrux was, he was no closer to 
discovering where it was. ... 

Generations of students had failed to find the diadem; 
that suggested that it was not in Ravenclaw Tower — 
but if not there, where? What hiding place had Tom 
Riddle discovered inside Hogwarts Castle, that he 
believed would remain secret forever? 

Lost in desperate speculation, Harry turned a corner, 
but he had taken only a few steps down the new 
corridor when the window to his left broke open with 
a deafening, shattering crash. As he leapt aside, a 
gigantic body flew in through the window and hit the 
opposite wall. Something large and furry detached 
itself, whimpering, from the new arrival and flung 
itself at Harry. 

“Hagrid!” Harry bellowed, fighting off Fang the 
boarhound’s attentions as the enormous bearded 
figure clambered to his feet. “What the — ?” 

“Harry, yer here! Yer here\” 

Hagrid stooped down, bestowed upon Harry a cursory 
and rib-cracking hug, then ran back to the shattered 
window. 

“Good boy, Grawpy!” he bellowed through the hole in 
the window. “I’ll see yer in a moment, there’s a good 
lad!” 

Page | 699 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Beyond Hagrid, out in the dark night, Harry saw 
bursts of light in the distance and heard a weird, 
keening scream. He looked down at his watch: It was 
midnight. The battle had begun. 

“Blimey, Harry,” panted Hagrid, “this is it, eh? Time 
ter fight?” 

“Hagrid, where have you come from?” 

“Heard You-Know-Who from up in our cave,” said 
Hagrid grimly. “Voice carried, didn’ it? Yeh got till 
midnight ter gimme Potter.’ Knew yeh mus’ be here, 
knew what mus’ be happenin’. Get down, Fang. So we 
come ter join in, me an’ Grawpy an’ Fang. Smashed 
our way through the boundary by the forest, Grawpy 
was carryin’ us, Fang an’ me. Told him ter let me 
down at the castle, so he shoved me through the 
window, bless him. Not exac’ly what I meant, bu’ — 
where’s Ron an’ Hermione?” 

“That,” said Harry, “is a really good question. Come 
on.” 

They hurried together along the corridor, Fang 
lolloping beside them. Harry could hear movement 
through the corridors all around: running footsteps, 
shouts; through the windows, he could see more 
flashes of light in the dark grounds. 

“Where’re we goin’?” puffed Hagrid, pounding along at 
Harry’s heels, making the floorboards quake. 

“I dunno exactly,” said Harry, making another 
random turn, “but Ron and Hermione must be 
around here somewhere. ...” 

The first casualties of the battle were already strewn 
across the passage ahead: The two stone gargoyles 

Page | 700 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




that usually guarded the entrance to the staffroom 
had been smashed apart by a jinx that had sailed 
through another broken window. Their remains 
stirred feebly on the floor, and as Harry leapt over one 
of their disembodied heads, it moaned faintly, “Oh, 
don’t mind me ... I’ll just lie here and crumble. ...” 

Its ugly stone face made Harry think suddenly of the 
marble bust of Rowena Ravenclaw at Xenophilius’s 
house, wearing that mad headdress — and then of 
the statue in Ravenclaw Tower, with the stone diadem 
upon her white curls. ... 

And as he reached the end of the passage, the 
memory of a third stone effigy came back to him: that 
of an ugly old warlock, onto whose head Harry 
himself had placed a wig and a battered old tiara. The 
shock shot through Harry with the heat of firewhisky, 
and he nearly stumbled. 

He knew, at last, where the Horcrux sat waiting for 
him. ... 

Tom Riddle, who confided in no one and operated 
alone, might have been arrogant enough to assume 
that he, and only he, had penetrated the deepest 
mysteries of Hogwarts Castle. Of course, Dumbledore 
and Flitwick, those model pupils, had never set foot in 
that particular place, but he, Harry, had strayed off 
the beaten track in his time at school — here at last 
was a secret he and Voldemort knew, that 
Dumbledore had never discovered — 

He was roused by Professor Sprout, who was 
thundering past followed by Neville and half a dozen 
others, all of them wearing earmuffs and carrying 
what appeared to be large potted plants. 



Page | 701 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Mandrakes!” Neville bellowed at Harry over his 
shoulder as he ran. “Going to lob them over the walls 
— they won’t like this!” 

Harry knew now where to go: He sped off, with Hagrid 
and Fang galloping behind him. They passed portrait 
after portrait, and the painted figures raced alongside 
them, wizards and witches in ruffs and breeches, in 
armor and cloaks, cramming themselves into each 
others’ canvases, screaming news from other parts of 
the castle. As they reached the end of this corridor, 
the whole castle shook, and Harry knew, as a gigantic 
vase blew off its plinth with explosive force, that it 
was in the grip of enchantments more sinister than 
those of the teachers and the Order. 

“It’s all righ’, Fang — it’s all righ’!” yelled Hagrid, but 
the great boarhound had taken flight as slivers of 
china flew like shrapnel through the air, and Hagrid 
pounded off after the terrified dog, leaving Harry 
alone. 

He forged on through the trembling passages, his 
wand at the ready, and for the length of one corridor 
the little painted knight, Sir Cadogan, rushed from 
painting to painting beside him, clanking along in his 
armor, screaming encouragement, his fat little pony 
cantering behind him. 

“Braggarts and rogues, dogs and scoundrels, drive 
them out, Harry Potter, see them off!” 

Harry hurtled around a corner and found Fred and a 
small knot of students, including Lee Jordan and 
Hannah Abbott, standing beside another empty 
plinth, whose statue had concealed a secret 
passageway. Their wands were drawn and they were 
listening at the concealed hole. 



Page | 702 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Nice night for it!” Fred shouted as the castle quaked 
again, and Harry sprinted by, elated and terrified in 
equal measure. Along yet another corridor he dashed, 
and then there were owls everywhere, and Mrs. Norris 
was hissing and trying to bat them with her paws, no 
doubt to return them to their proper place. ... 

“Potter!” 

Aberforth Dumbledore stood blocking the corridor 
ahead, his wand held ready. 

“I’ve had hundreds of kids thundering through my 
pub, Potter!” 

“I know, we’re evacuating,” Harry said, “Voldemort’s 



“ — attacking because they haven’t handed you over, 
yeah,” said Aberforth, “I’m not deaf, the whole of 
Hogsmeade heard him. And it never occurred to any 
of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are 
kids of Death Eaters you’ve just sent to safety. 
Wouldn’t it have been a bit smarter to keep ’em here?” 

“It wouldn’t stop Voldemort,” said Harry, “and your 
brother would never have done it.” 

Aberforth grunted and tore away in the opposite 
direction. 

Your brother would never have done it. ... Well, it was 
the truth, Harry thought as he ran on again; 
Dumbledore, who had defended Snape for so long, 
would never have held students ransom. ... 

And then he skidded around a final corner and with a 
yell of mingled relief and fury he saw them: Ron and 
Hermione, both with their arms full of large, curved, 

Page | 703 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




dirty yellow objects, Ron with a broomstick under his 
arm. 

“Where the hell have you been?” Harry shouted. 

“Chamber of Secrets,” said Ron. 

“Chamber — what?” said Harry, coming to an 
unsteady halt before them. 

“It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!” said Hermione 
breathlessly. “Wasn’t it absolutely brilliant? There we 
were, after you left, and I said to Ron, even if we find 
the other one, how are we going to get rid of it? We 
still hadn’t got rid of the cup! And then he thought of 
it! The basilisk!” 

“What the — ?” 

“Something to get rid of Horcruxes,” said Ron simply. 

Harry’s eyes dropped to the objects clutched in Ron 
and Hermione’s arms: great curved fangs, torn, he 
now realized, from the skull of a dead basilisk. 

“But how did you get in there?” he asked, staring 
from the fangs to Ron. “You need to speak 
Parseltongue!” 

“He did!” whispered Hermione. “Show him, Ron!” 

Ron made a horrible strangled hissing noise. 

“It’s what you did to open the locket,” he told Harry 
apologetically. “I had to have a few goes to get it right, 
but,” he shrugged modestly, “we got there in the end.” 

“He was amazing.” said Hermione. “Amazing!” 



Page | 704 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“So ...” Harry was struggling to keep up. “So ...” 



“So we’re another Horcrux down,” said Ron, and from 
under his jacket he pulled the mangled remains of 
Hufflepuff’s cup. “Hermione stabbed it. Thought she 
should. She hasn’t had the pleasure yet.” 

“Genius!” yelled Harry. 

“It was nothing,” said Ron, though he looked 
delighted with himself. “So what’s new with you?” 

As he said it, there was an explosion from overhead: 
All three of them looked up as dust fell from the 
ceiling and they heard a distant scream. 

“I know what the diadem looks like, and I know where 
it is,” said Harry, talking fast. “He hid it exactly where 
I hid my old Potions book, where everyone’s been 
hiding stuff for centuries. He thought he was the only 
one to find it. Come on.” 

As the walls trembled again, he led the other two back 
through the concealed entrance and down the 
staircase into the Room of Requirement. It was empty 
except for three women: Ginny, Tonks, and an elderly 
witch wearing a moth-eaten hat, whom Harry 
recognized immediately as Neville’s grandmother. 

“Ah, Potter,” she said crisply as if she had been 
waiting for him. “You can tell us what’s going on.” 

“Is everyone okay?” said Ginny and Tonks together. 

“ ’S far as we know,” said Harry. “Are there still people 
in the passage to the Hog’s Head?” 

He knew that the room would not be able to 
transform while there were still users inside it. 

Page | 705 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I was the last to come through,” said Mrs. 
Longbottom. “I sealed it, I think it unwise to leave it 
open now Aberforth has left his pub. Have you seen 
my grandson?” 

“He’s fighting,” said Harry. 

“Naturally,” said the old lady proudly. “Excuse me, I 
must go and assist him.” 

With surprising speed she trotted off toward the stone 
steps. 

Harry looked at Tonks. 

“I thought you were supposed to be with Teddy at 
your mother’s?” 

“I couldn’t stand not knowing — ” Tonks looked 
anguished. “She’ll look after him — have you seen 
Remus?” 

“He was planning to lead a group of fighters into the 
grounds — ” 

Without another word, Tonks sped off. 

“Ginny,” said Harry, “I’m sorry, but we need you to 
leave too. Just for a bit. Then you can come back in.” 

Ginny looked simply delighted to leave her sanctuary. 

“And then you can come back in!” he shouted after 
her as she ran up the steps after Tonks. “ You’ve got to 
come back ini” 

“Hang on a moment!” said Ron sharply. “We’ve 
forgotten someone!” 



Page | 706 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Who?” asked Hermione. 



“The house-elves, they’ll all be down in the kitchen, 
won’t they?” 

“You mean we ought to get them fighting?” asked 
Harry. 

“No,” said Ron seriously, “I mean we should tell them 
to get out. We don’t want any more Dobbies, do we? 
We can’t order them to die for us — ” 

There was a clatter as the basilisk fangs cascaded out 
of Hermione ’s arms. Running at Ron, she flung them 
around his neck and kissed him full on the mouth. 
Ron threw away the fangs and broomstick he was 
holding and responded with such enthusiasm that he 
lifted Hermione off her feet. 

“Is this the moment?” Harry asked weakly, and when 
nothing happened except that Ron and Hermione 
gripped each other still more firmly and swayed on 
the spot, he raised his voice. “01! There’s a war going 
on here!” 

Ron and Hermione broke apart, their arms still 
around each other. 

“I know, mate,” said Ron, who looked as though he 
had recently been hit on the back of the head with a 
Bludger, “so it’s now or never, isn’t it?” 

“Never mind that, what about the Horcrux?” Harry 
shouted. “D’you think you could just — just hold it in 
until we’ve got the diadem?” 

“Yeah — right — sorry — ” said Ron, and he and 
Hermione set about gathering up fangs, both pink in 
the face. 

Page | 707 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




It was clear, as the three of them stepped back into 
the corridor upstairs, that in the minutes that they 
had spent in the Room of Requirement the situation 
within the castle had deteriorated severely: The walls 
and ceiling were shaking worse than ever; dust filled 
the air, and through the nearest window, Harry saw 
bursts of green and red light so close to the foot of the 
castle that he knew the Death Eaters must be very 
near to entering the place. Looking down, Harry saw 
Grawp the giant meandering past, swinging what 
looked like a stone gargoyle torn from the roof and 
roaring his displeasure. 

“Let’s hope he steps on some of them!” said Ron as 
more screams echoed from close by. 

“As long as it’s not any of our lot!” said a voice: Harry 
turned and saw Ginny and Tonks, both with their 
wands drawn at the next window, which was missing 
several panes. Even as he watched, Ginny sent a well- 
aimed jinx into a crowd of fighters below. 

“Good girl!” roared a figure running through the dust 
toward them, and Harry saw Aberforth again, his gray 
hair flying as he led a small group of students past. 
“They look like they might be breaching the north 
battlements, they’ve brought giants of their own!” 

“Have you seen Remus?” Tonks called after him. 

“He was dueling Dolohov,” shouted Aberforth, 

“haven’t seen him since! 

“Tonks,” said Ginny, “Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay — ” 
But Tonks had run off into the dust after Aberforth. 
Ginny turned, helpless, to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 



Page | 708 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“They’ll be all right,” said Harry, though he knew they 
were empty words. “Ginny, we’ll be back in a moment, 
just keep out of the way, keep safe — come on!” he 
said to Ron and Hermione, and they ran back to the 
stretch of wall beyond which the Room of 
Requirement was waiting to do the bidding of the next 
entrant. 

I need the place where everything is hidden, Harry 
begged of it inside his head, and the door materialized 
on their third run past. 

The furor of the battle died the moment they crossed 
the threshold and closed the door behind them: All 
was silent. They were in a place the size of a cathedral 
with the appearance of a city, its towering walls built 
of objects hidden by thousands of long-gone students. 

“And he never realized anyone could get in?” said 
Ron, his voice echoing in the silence. 

“He thought he was the only one,” said Harry. “Too 
bad for him I’ve had to hide stuff in my time ... this 
way,” he added, “I think it’s down here. ...” 

He passed the stuffed troll and the Vanishing Cabinet 
Draco Malfoy had mended last year with such 
disastrous consequences, then hesitated, looking up 
and down aisles of junk; he could not remember 
where to go next. ... 

“ Accio Diadem).” cried Hermione in desperation, but 
nothing flew through the air toward them. It seemed 
that, like the vault at Gringotts, the room would not 
yield its hidden objects that easily. 

“Let’s split up,” Harry told the other two. “Look for a 
stone bust of an old man wearing a wig and a tiara! 



Page | 709 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




It’s standing on a cupboard and it’s definitely 
somewhere near here. ...” 



They sped off up adjacent aisles; Harry could hear the 
others’ footsteps echoing through the towering piles of 
junk, of bottles, hats, crates, chairs, books, weapons, 
broomsticks, bats. ... 

“Somewhere near here,” Harry muttered to himself. 
“Somewhere ... somewhere ...” 

Deeper and deeper into the labyrinth he went, looking 
for objects he recognized from his one previous trip 
into the room. His breath was loud in his ears, and 
then his very soul seemed to shiver: There it was, 
right ahead, the blistered old cupboard in which he 
had hidden his old Potions book, and on top of it, the 
pockmarked stone warlock wearing a dusty old wig 
and what looked like an ancient, discolored tiara. 

He had already stretched out his hand, though he 
remained ten feet away, when a voice behind him 
said, “Hold it, Potter.” 

He skidded to a halt and turned around. Crabbe and 
Goyle were standing behind him, shoulder to 
shoulder, wands pointing right at Harry. Through the 
small space between their leering faces he saw Draco 
Malfoy. 

“That’s my wand you’re holding, Potter,” said Malfoy, 
pointing his own through the gap between Crabbe 
and Goyle. 

“Not anymore,” panted Harry, tightening his grip on 
the hawthorn wand. “Winners, keepers, Malfoy. Who’s 
lent you theirs?” 

“My mother,” said Draco. 

Page | 710 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry laughed, though there was nothing very 
humorous about the situation. He could not hear Ron 
or Hermione anymore. They seemed to have run out 
of earshot, searching for the diadem. 

“So how come you three aren’t with Voldemort?” 
asked Harry. 

“We’re gonna be rewarded,” said Crabbe: His voice 
was surprisingly soft for such an enormous person; 
Harry had hardly ever heard him speak before. 

Crabbe was smiling like a small child promised a 
large bag of sweets. “We ’ung back, Potter. We decided 
not to go. Decided to bring you to ’im.” 

“Good plan,” said Harry in mock admiration. He could 
not believe that he was this close, and was going to be 
thwarted by Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. He began 
edging slowly backward toward the place where the 
Horcrux sat lopsided upon the bust. If he could just 
get his hands on it before the fight broke out . . . 

“So how did you get in here?” he asked, trying to 
distract them. 

“I virtually lived in the Room of Hidden Things all last 
year,” said Malfoy, his voice brittle. “I know how to get 
in.” 



“We was hiding in the corridor outside,” grunted 
Goyle. “We can do Diss-lusion Charms now! And 
then,” his face split into a gormless grin, “you turned 
up right in front of us and said you was looking for a 
die-dum! What’s a die-dum?” 

“Harry?” Ron’s voice echoed suddenly from the other 
side of the wall to Harry’s right. “Are you talking to 
someone?” 



Page | 711 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




With a whiplike movement, Crabbe pointed his wand 
at the fifty-foot mountain of old furniture, of broken 
trunks, of old books and robes and unidentifiable 
junk, and shouted, “DescendoV’ 

The wall began to totter, then the top third crumbled 
into the aisle next door where Ron stood. 

“Ron!” Harry bellowed, as somewhere out of sight 
Hermione screamed, and Harry heard innumerable 
objects crashing to the floor on the other side of the 
destabilized wall: He pointed his wand at the rampart, 
cried, “Finite!” and it steadied. 

“No!” shouted Malfoy, staying Crabbe’s arm as the 
latter made to repeat his spell. “If you wreck the room 
you might bury this diadem thing!” 

“What’s that matter?” said Crabbe, tugging himself 
free. “It’s Potter the Dark Lord wants, who cares 
about a die-dum?” 

“Potter came in here to get it,” said Malfoy with ill- 
disguised impatience at the slow-wittedness of his 
colleagues, “so that must mean — ” 

“ ‘Must mean?” Crabbe turned on Malfoy with 
undisguised ferocity. “Who cares what you think? I 
don’t take your orders no more, Draco. You an’ your 
dad are finished.” 

“Harry?” shouted Ron again, from the other side of 
the junk wall. “What’s going on?” 

“Harry?” mimicked Crabbe. “What’s going — no, 

Potter! Cruciol” 

Harry had lunged for the tiara; Crabbe’s curse missed 
him but hit the stone bust, which flew into the air; 

Page | 712 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the diadem soared upward and then dropped out of 
sight in the mass of objects on which the bust had 
rested. 

“STOP!” Malfoy shouted at Crabbe, his voice echoing 
through the enormous room. “The Dark Lord wants 
him alive — ” 

“So? I’m not killing him, am I?” yelled Crabbe, 
throwing off Malfoy’s restraining arm. “But if I can, I 
will, the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway, what’s 
thediff— ?” 

A jet of scarlet light shot past Harry by inches: 
Hermione had run around the corner behind him and 
sent a Stunning Spell straight at Crabbe ’s head. It 
only missed because Malfoy pulled him out of the 
way. 

“It’s that Mudblood! Avada Kedavral” 

Harry saw Hermione dive aside, and his fury that 
Crabbe had aimed to kill wiped all else from his mind. 
He shot a Stunning Spell at Crabbe, who lurched out 
of the way, knocking Malfoy’s wand out of his hand; it 
rolled out of sight beneath a mountain of broken 
furniture and boxes. 

“Don’t kill him! DONT KILL HIM!” Malfoy yelled at 
Crabbe and Goyle, who were both aiming at Harry: 
Their split second’s hesitation was all Harry needed. 

“ Expelliarmusl” 

Goyle ’s wand flew out of his hand and disappeared 
into the bulwark of objects beside him; Goyle leapt 
foolishly on the spot, trying to retrieve it; Malfoy 
jumped out of range of Hermione ’s second Stunning 
Spell, and Ron, appearing suddenly at the end of the 
Page | 713 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




aisle, shot a full Body-Bind Curse at Crabbe, which 
narrowly missed. 

Crabbe wheeled around and screamed, “Avada 
KedavraY’ again. Ron leapt out of sight to avoid the jet 
of green light. The wandless Malfoy cowered behind a 
three-legged wardrobe as Hermione charged toward 
them, hitting Goyle with a Stunning Spell as she 
came. 

“It’s somewhere here!” Harry yelled at her, pointing at 
the pile of junk into which the old tiara had fallen. 
“Look for it while I go and help R — ” 

“HARRY!” she screamed. 

A roaring, billowing noise behind him gave him a 
moment’s warning. He turned and saw both Ron and 
Crabbe running as hard as they could up the aisle 
toward them. 

“Like it hot, scum?” roared Crabbe as he ran. 

But he seemed to have no control over what he had 
done. Flames of abnormal size were pursuing them, 
licking up the sides of the junk bulwarks, which were 
crumbling to soot at their touch. 

“Aguamenti\” Harry bawled, but the jet of water that 
soared from the tip of his wand evaporated in the air. 

“RUN!” 

Malfoy grabbed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him 
along; Crabbe outstripped all of them, now looking 
terrified; Harry, Ron, and Hermione pelted along in 
his wake, and the fire pursued them. It was not 
normal fire; Crabbe had used a curse of which Harry 
had no knowledge: As they turned a corner the flames 
Page | 714 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




chased them as though they were alive, sentient, 
intent upon killing them. Now the fire was mutating, 
forming a gigantic pack of fiery beasts: Flaming 
serpents, chimaeras, and dragons rose and fell and 
rose again, and the detritus of centuries on which 
they were feeding was thrown up in the air into their 
fanged mouths, tossed high on clawed feet, before 
being consumed by the inferno. 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had vanished from view: 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stopped dead; the fiery 
monsters were circling them, drawing closer and 
closer, claws and horns and tails lashed, and the heat 
was solid as a wall around them. 

“What can we do?” Hermione screamed over the 
deafening roars of the fire. “What can we do?” 

“Here!” 

Harry seized a pair of heavy-looking broomsticks from 
the nearest pile of junk and threw one to Ron, who 
pulled Hermione onto it behind him. Harry swung his 
leg over the second broom and, with hard kicks to the 
ground, they soared up into the air, missing by feet 
the horned beak of a flaming raptor that snapped its 
jaws at them. The smoke and heat were becoming 
overwhelming: Below them the cursed fire was 
consuming the contraband of generations of hunted 
students, the guilty outcomes of a thousand banned 
experiments, the secrets of the countless souls who 
had sought refuge in the room. Harry could not see a 
trace of Malfoy, Crabbe, or Goyle anywhere: He 
swooped as low as he dared over the marauding 
monsters of flame to try to find them, but there was 
nothing but fire: What a terrible way to die. ... He had 
never wanted this. ... 



Page | 715 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, let’s get out, let’s get out!” bellowed Ron, 
though it was impossible to see where the door was 
through the black smoke. 

And then Harry heard a thin, piteous human scream 
from amidst the terrible commotion, the thunder of 
devouring flame. 

“It’s — too — dangerous — !” Ron yelled, but Harry 
wheeled in the air. His glasses giving his eyes some 
small protection from the smoke, he raked the 
firestorm below, seeking a sign of life, a limb or a face 
that was not yet charred like wood. ... 

And he saw them: Malfoy with his arms around the 
unconscious Goyle, the pair of them perched on a 
fragile tower of charred desks, and Harry dived. 

Malfoy saw him coming and raised one arm, but even 
as Harry grasped it he knew at once that it was no 
good: Goyle was too heavy and Malfoy ’s hand, covered 
in sweat, slid instantly out of Harry’s — 

“IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I’LL KILL YOU, HARRY!” 
roared Ron’s voice, and, as a great flaming chimaera 
bore down upon them, he and Hermione dragged 
Goyle onto their broom and rose, rolling and pitching, 
into the air once more as Malfoy clambered up behind 
Harry. 

“The door, get to the door, the door!” screamed Malfoy 
in Harry’s ear, and Harry sped up, following Ron, 
Hermione, and Goyle through the billowing black 
smoke, hardly able to breathe: and all around them 
the last few objects unburned by the devouring flames 
were flung into the air, as the creatures of the cursed 
fire cast them high in celebration: cups and shields, a 
sparkling necklace, and an old, discolored tiara — 



Page | 716 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ What are you doing, what are you doing, the door’s 
that way\” screamed Malfoy, but Harry made a 
hairpin swerve and dived. The diadem seemed to fall 
in slow motion, turning and glittering as it dropped 
toward the maw of a yawning serpent, and then he 
had it, caught it around his wrist — 

Harry swerved again as the serpent lunged at him; he 
soared upward and straight toward the place where, 
he prayed, the door stood open: Ron, Hermione, and 
Goyle had vanished; Malfoy was screaming and 
holding Harry so tightly it hurt. Then, through the 
smoke, Harry saw a rectangular patch on the wall 
and steered the broom at it, and moments later clean 
air filled his lungs and they collided with the wall in 
the corridor beyond. 

Malfoy fell off the broom and lay facedown, gasping, 
coughing, and retching. Harry rolled over and sat up: 
The door to the Room of Requirement had vanished, 
and Ron and Hermione sat panting on the floor beside 
Goyle, who was still unconscious. 

“C-Crabbe,” choked Malfoy as soon as he could 
speak. “C-Crabbe ...” 

“He’s dead,” said Ron harshly. 

There was silence, apart from panting and coughing. 
Then a number of huge bangs shook the castle, and a 
great cavalcade of transparent figures galloped past 
on horses, their heads screaming with bloodlust 
under their arms. Harry staggered to his feet when 
the Headless Hunt had passed and looked around: 

The battle was still going on all around him. He could 
hear more screams than those of the retreating 
ghosts. Panic flared within him. 



Page | 717 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Where’s Ginny?” he said sharply. “She was here. She 
was supposed to be going back into the Room of 
Requirement.” 

“Blimey, d’you reckon it’ll still work after that fire?” 
asked Ron, but he too got to his feet, rubbing his 
chest and looking left and right. “Shall we split up 
and look — ?” 

“No,” said Hermione, getting to her feet too. Malfoy 
and Goyle remained slumped hopelessly on the 
corridor floor; neither of them had wands. “Let’s stick 
together. I say we go — Harry, what’s that on your 
arm?” 

“What? Oh yeah — ” 

He pulled the diadem from his wrist and held it up. It 
was still hot, blackened with soot, but as he looked at 
it closely he was just able to make out the tiny words 
etched upon it: WIT BEYOND MEASURE IS MAN’S 
GREATEST TREASURE. 

A bloodlike substance, dark and tarry, seemed to be 
leaking from the diadem. Suddenly Harry felt the 
thing vibrate violently, then break apart in his hands, 
and as it did so, he thought he heard the faintest, 
most distant scream of pain, echoing not from the 
grounds or the castle, but from the thing that had 
just fragmented in his fingers. 

“It must have been Fiendfyre!” whimpered Hermione, 
her eyes on the broken pieces. 

“Sorry?” 

“Fiendfyre — cursed fire — it’s one of the substances 
that destroy Horcruxes, but I would never, ever have 



Page | 718 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




dared use it, it’s so dangerous — how did Crabbe 
