any story — ” 

Professor McGonagall was gone in a swish of tartan. 

“He says he’ll be delighted,” said a bored voice behind 
Dumbledore; the wizard called Phineas had 
reappeared in front of his Slytherin banner. “My 
great-great-grandson has always had odd taste in 
houseguests...” 

“Come here, then,” Dumbledore said to Harry and the 
Weasleys. “And quickly, before anyone else joins us 



Page | 605Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry and the others gathered around Dumbledore’s 
desk. 

“You have all used a Portkey before?” asked 
Dumbledore, and they nodded, each reaching out to 
touch some part of the blackened kettle. “Good. On 
the count of three then ... one ... two ...” 

It happened in a fraction of a second: In the 
infinitesimal pause before Dumbledore said “three,” 
Harry looked up at him — they were very close 
together — and Dumbledore’s clear blue gaze moved 
from the Portkey to Harry’s face. 

At once, Harry’s scar burned white-hot, as though the 
old wound had burst open again — and unbidden, 
unwanted, but terrifyingly strong, there rose within 
Harry a hatred so powerful he felt, for that instant, 
that he would like nothing better than to strike — to 
bite — to sink his fangs into the man before him — 

“... three.” 

He felt a powerful jerk behind his navel, the ground 
vanished from beneath his feet, his hand was glued to 
the kettle; he was banging into the others as all sped 
forward in a swirl of colors and a rush of wind, the 
kettle pulling them onward and then — 

His feet hit the ground so hard that his knees 
buckled, the kettle clattered to the ground and 
somewhere close at hand a voice said, “Back again, 
the blood traitor brats, is it true their father’s dying ... 
?” 

“OUT!” roared a second voice. 

Harry scrambled to his feet and looked around; they 
had arrived in the gloomy basement kitchen of 

Page | 606Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




number twelve, Grimmauld Place. The only sources of 
light were the fire and one guttering candle, which 
illuminated the remains of a solitary supper. Kreacher 
was disappearing through the door to the hall, 
looking back at them malevolently as he hitched up 
his loincloth; Sirius was hurrying toward them all, 
looking anxious. He was unshaven and still in his day 
clothes; there was also a slightly Mundungus-like 
whiff of stale drink about him. 

“What’s going on?” he said, stretching out a hand to 
help Ginny up. “Phineas Nigellus said Arthur’s been 
badly injured — ” 

“Ask Harry,” said Fred. 

“Yeah, I want to hear this for myself,” said George. 

The twins and Ginny were staring at him. Kreacher’s 
footsteps had stopped on the stairs outside. 

“It was — ” Harry began; this was even worse than 
telling McGonagall and Dumbledore. “I had a — a 
kind of — vision...” 

And he told them all that he had seen, though he 
altered the story so that it sounded as though he had 
watched from the sidelines as the snake attacked, 
rather than from behind the snake’s own eyes... Ron, 
who was still very white, gave him a fleeting look, but 
did not speak. When Harry had finished, Fred, 

George, and Ginny continued to stare at him for a 
moment. Harry did not know whether he was 
imagining it or not, but he fancied there was 
something accusatory in their looks. Well, if they were 
going to blame him for just seeing the attack, he was 
glad he had not told them that he had been inside the 
snake at the time... 



Page | 607Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Is Mum here?” said Fred, turning to Sirius. 



“She probably doesn’t even know what’s happened 
yet,” said Sirius. “The important thing was to get you 
away before Umbridge could interfere. I expect 
Dumbledore’s letting Molly know now.” 

“We’ve got to go to St. Mungo’s,” said Ginny urgently. 
She looked around at her brothers; they were of 
course still in their pajamas. “Sirius, can you lend us 
cloaks or anything — ?” 

“Hang on, you can’t go tearing off to St. Mungo’s!” 
said Sirius. 

“ ’Course we can go to St. Mungo’s if we want,” said 
Fred, with a mulish expression, “he’s our dad!” 

“And how are you going to explain how you knew 
Arthur was attacked before the hospital even let his 
wife know?” 

“What does that matter?” said George hotly. 

“It matters because we don’t want to draw attention 
to the fact that Harry is having visions of things that 
are happening hundreds of miles away!” said Sirius 
angrily. “Have you any idea what the Ministry would 
make of that information?” 

Fred and George looked as though they could not care 
less what the Ministry made of anything. Ron was still 
white-faced and silent. Ginny said, “Somebody else 
could have told us... We could have heard it 
somewhere other than Harry...” 

“Like who?” said Sirius impatiently. “Listen, your 
dad’s been hurt while on duty for the Order and the 
circumstances are fishy enough without his children 

Page | 608Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




knowing about it seconds after it happened, you 
could seriously damage the Order’s — ” 

“We don’t care about the dumb Order!” shouted Fred. 

“It’s our dad dying we’re talking about!” yelled George. 

“Your father knew what he was getting into, and he 
won’t thank you for messing things up for the Order!” 
said Sirius angrily in his turn. “This is how it is — 
this is why you’re not in the Order — you don’t 
understand — there are things worth dying for!” 

“Easy for you to say, stuck here!” bellowed Fred. “I 
don’t see you risking your neck!” 

The little color remaining in Sirius’s face drained from 
it. He looked for a moment as though he would quite 
like to hit Fred, but when he spoke, it was in a voice 
of determined calm. “I know it’s hard, but we’ve all got 
to act as though we don’t know anything yet. We’ve 
got to stay put, at least until we hear from your 
mother, all right?” 

Fred and George still looked mutinous. Ginny, 
however, took a few steps over to the nearest chair 
and sank into it. Harry looked at Ron, who made a 
funny movement somewhere between a nod and 
shrug, and they sat down too. The twins glared at 
Sirius for another minute, then took seats on either 
side of Ginny. 

“That’s right,” said Sirius encouragingly, “come on, 
let’s all ... let’s all have a drink while we’re waiting. 
Accio Butterbeeri” 

He raised his wand as he spoke and half a dozen 
bottles came flying toward them out of the pantry, 
skidded along the table, scattering the debris of 

Page | 609Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius’s meal, and stopped neatly in front of the six of 
them. They all drank, and for a while the only sounds 
were those of the crackling of the kitchen fire and the 
soft thud of their bottles on the table. 

Harry was only drinking to have something to do with 
his hands. His stomach was full of horrible hot, 
bubbling guilt. They would not be here if it were not 
for him; they would all still be asleep in bed. And it 
was no good telling himself that by raising the alarm 
he had ensured that Mr. Weasley was found, because 
there was also the inescapable business of it being he 
who had attacked Mr. Weasley in the first place... 

Don’t be stupid, you haven’t got fangs, he told himself, 
trying to keep calm, though the hand on his 
butterbeer bottle was shaking. You were lying in bed, 
you weren’t attacking anyone... 

But then, what just happened in Dumbledore’s office ? 
he asked himself. I felt like I wanted to attack 
Dumbledore too... 

He put the bottle down on the table a little harder 
than he meant to, so that it slopped over onto the 
table. No one took any notice. Then a burst of fire in 
midair illuminated the dirty plates in front of them 
and as they gave cries of shock, a scroll of parchment 
fell with a thud onto the table, accompanied by a 
single golden phoenix tail feather. 

“Fawkes!” said Sirius at once, snatching up the 
parchment. “That’s not Dumbledore’s writing — it 
must be a message from your mother — here — ” 

He thrust the letter into George’s hand, who ripped it 
open and read aloud, “ Dad is still alive. I am setting 
out for St. Mungo’s now. Stay where you are. I will 
send news as soon as I can. Mum.” 

Page | 610Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




George looked around the table. 



“Still alive ...” he said slowly. “But that makes it 
sound ...” 

He did not need to finish the sentence. It sounded to 
Harry too as though Mr. Weasley was hovering 
somewhere between life and death. Still exceptionally 
pale, Ron stared at the back of his mother’s letter as 
though it might speak words of comfort to him. Fred 
pulled the parchment out of George’s hands and read 
it for himself, then looked up at Harry, who felt his 
hand shaking on his butterbeer bottle again and 
clenched it more tightly to stop the trembling. 

If Harry had ever sat through a longer night than this 
one he could not remember it. Sirius suggested once 
that they all go to bed, but without any real 
conviction, and the Weasleys’ looks of disgust were 
answer enough. They mostly sat in silence around the 
table, watching the candle wick sinking lower and 
lower into liquid wax, now and then raising bottles to 
their lips, speaking only to check the time, to wonder 
aloud what was happening, and to reassure one 
another that if there was bad news, they would know 
straightaway, for Mrs. Weasley must long since have 
arrived at St. Mungo’s. 

Fred fell into a doze, his head sagging sideways onto 
his shoulder. Ginny was curled like a cat on her 
chair, but her eyes were open; Harry could see them 
reflecting the firelight. Ron was sitting with his head 
in his hands, whether awake or asleep it was 
impossible to tell. And he and Sirius looked at each 
other every so often, intruders upon the family grief, 
waiting ... waiting ... 

And then, at ten past five in the morning by Ron’s 
watch, the kitchen door swung open and Mrs. 

Page | 611Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Weasley entered the kitchen. She was extremely pale, 
but when they all turned to look at her, Fred, Ron, 
and Harry half-rising from their chairs, she gave a 
wan smile. 

“He’s going to be all right,” she said, her voice weak 
with tiredness. “He’s sleeping. We can all go and see 
him later. Bill’s sitting with him now, he’s going to 
take the morning off work.” 

Fred fell back into his chair with his hands over his 
face. George and Ginny got up, walked swiftly over to 
their mother, and hugged her. Ron gave a very shaky 
laugh and downed the rest of his butterbeer in one. 

“Breakfast!” said Sirius loudly and joyfully, jumping 
to his feet. “Where’s that accursed house-elf? 

Kreacher! KREACHER!” 

But Kreacher did not answer the summons. 

“Oh, forget it, then,” muttered Sirius, counting the 
people in front of him. “So it’s breakfast for — let’s see 
— seven ... Bacon and eggs, I think, and some tea, 
and toast — ” 

Harry hurried over to the stove to help. He did not 
want to intrude upon the Weasleys’ happiness, and 
he dreaded the moment when Mrs. Weasley would 
ask him to recount his vision. However, he had barely 
taken plates from the dresser when Mrs. Weasley 
lifted them out of his hands and pulled him into a 
hug. 

“I don’t know what would have happened if it hadn’t 
been for you, Harry,” she said in a muffled voice. 

“They might not have found Arthur for hours, and 
then it would have been too late, but thanks to you 
he’s alive and Dumbledore’s been able to think up a 
Page | 612Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




good cover story for Arthur being where he was, 
you’ve no idea what trouble he would have been in 
otherwise, look at poor Sturgis...” 

Harry could hardly stand her gratitude, but 
fortunately she soon released him to turn to Sirius 
and thank him for looking after her children through 
the night. Sirius said that he was very pleased to have 
been able to help, and hoped they would all stay with 
him as long as Mr. Weasley was in hospital. 

“Oh, Sirius, I’m so grateful... They think hell be there 
a little while and it would be wonderful to be nearer 
...Of course, that might mean we’re here for 
Christmas...” 

“The more the merrier!” said Sirius with such obvious 
sincerity that Mrs. Weasley beamed at him, threw on 
an apron, and began to help with breakfast. 

“Sirius,” Harry muttered, unable to stand it a moment 
longer. “Can I have a quick word? Er — now?” 

He walked into the dark pantry and Sirius followed. 
Without preamble Harry told his godfather every 
detail of the vision he had had, including the fact that 
he himself had been the snake who had attacked Mr. 
Weasley. 

When he paused for breath, Sirius said, “Did you tell 
Dumbledore this?” 

“Yes,” said Harry impatiently, “but he didn’t tell me 
what it meant. Well, he doesn’t tell me anything 
anymore...” 

“I’m sure he would have told you if it was anything to 
worry about,” said Sirius steadily. 



Page | 613Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But that’s not all,” said Harry in a voice only a little 
above a whisper. “Sirius, I ... I think I’m going mad... 
Back in Dumbledore’s office, just before we took the 
Portkey . . . for a couple of seconds there I thought I 
was a snake, I felt like one — my scar really hurt 
when I was looking at Dumbledore — Sirius, I wanted 
to attack him — ” 

He could only see a sliver of Sirius’s face; the rest was 
in darkness. 

“It must have been the aftermath of the vision, that’s 
all,” said Sirius. “You were still thinking of the dream 
or whatever it was and — ” 

“It wasn’t that,” said Harry, shaking his head. “It was 
like something rose up inside me, like there’s a snake 
inside me — ” 

“You need to sleep,” said Sirius firmly. “You’re going 
to have breakfast and then go upstairs to bed, and 
then you can go and see Arthur after lunch with the 
others. You’re in shock, Harry; you’re blaming 
yourself for something you only witnessed, and it’s 
lucky you did witness it or Arthur might have died. 
Just stop worrying...” 

He clapped Harry on the shoulder and left the pantry, 
leaving Harry standing alone in the dark. 

Everyone but Harry spent the rest of the morning 
sleeping. He went up to the bedroom he had shared 
with Ron over the summer, but while Ron crawled 
into bed and was asleep within minutes, Harry sat 
fully clothed, hunched against the cold metal bars of 
the bedstead, keeping himself deliberately 
uncomfortable, determined not to fall into a doze, 
terrified that he might become the serpent again in 
his sleep and awake to find that he had attacked Ron, 
Page | 614Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




or else slithered through the house after one of the 
others... 

When Ron woke up, Harry pretended to have enjoyed 
a refreshing nap too. Their trunks arrived from 
Hogwarts while they were eating lunch, so that they 
could dress as Muggles for the trip to St. Mungo’s. 
Everybody except Harry was riotously happy and 
talkative as they changed out of their robes into jeans 
and sweatshirts, and they greeted Tonks and Mad- 
Eye, who had turned up to escort them across 
London, gleefully laughing at the bowler hat Mad-Eye 
was wearing at an angle to conceal his magical eye 
and assuring him, truthfully, that Tonks, whose hair 
was short and bright pink again, would attract far 
less attention on the underground. 

Tonks was very interested in Harry’s vision of the 
attack on Mr. Weasley, something he was not 
remotely interested in discussing. 

“There isn’t any Seer blood in your family, is there?” 
she inquired curiously, as they sat side by side on a 
train rattling toward the heart of the city. 

“No,” said Harry, thinking of Professor Trelawney and 
feeling insulted. 

“No,” said Tonks musingly, “no, I suppose it’s not 
really prophecy you’re doing, is it? I mean, you’re not 
seeing the future, you’re seeing the present... It’s odd, 
isn’t it? Useful, though ...” 

Harry did not answer; fortunately they got out at the 
next stop, a station in the very heart of London, and 
in the bustle of leaving the train he was able to allow 
Fred and George to get between himself and Tonks, 
who was leading the way. They all followed her up the 
escalator, Moody clunking along at the back of the 
Page | 615Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




group, his bowler tilted low and one gnarled hand 
stuck in between the buttons of his coat, clutching 
his wand. Harry thought he sensed the concealed eye 
staring hard at him; trying to deflect more questions 
about his dream he asked Mad-Eye where St. 

Mungo’s was hidden. 

“Not far from here,” grunted Moody as they stepped 
out into the wintry air on a broad store-lined street 
packed with Christmas shoppers. He pushed Harry a 
little ahead of him and stumped along just behind; 
Harry knew the eye was rolling in all directions under 
the tilted hat. “Wasn’t easy to find a good location for 
a hospital. Nowhere in Diagon Alley was big enough 
and we couldn’t have it underground like the Ministry 
— unhealthy. In the end they managed to get hold of 
a building up here. Theory was sick wizards could 
come and go and just blend in with the crowd...” 

He seized Harry’s shoulder to prevent them being 
separated by a gaggle of shoppers plainly intent on 
nothing but making it into a nearby shop full of 
electrical gadgets. 

“Here we go,” said Moody a moment later. 

They had arrived outside a large, old-fashioned, red 
brick department store called Purge and Dowse Ltd. 
The place had a shabby, miserable air; the window 
displays consisted of a few chipped dummies with 
their wigs askew, standing at random and modeling 
fashions at least ten years out of date. Large signs on 
all the dusty doors read CLOSED FOR 
REFURBISHMENT. Harry distinctly heard a large 
woman laden with plastic shopping bags say to her 
friend as they passed, “It’s never open, that place...” 

“Right,” said Tonks, beckoning them forward to a 
window displaying nothing but a particularly ugly 

Page | 616Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




female dummy whose false eyelashes were hanging off 
and who was modeling a green nylon pinafore dress. 
“Everybody ready?” 

They nodded, clustering around her; Moody gave 
Harry another shove between the shoulder blades to 
urge him forward and Tonks leaned close to the glass, 
looking up at the very ugly dummy and said, her 
breath steaming up the glass, “Wotcher ... We’re here 
to see Arthur Weasley.” 

For a split second, Harry thought how absurd it was 
for Tonks to expect the dummy to hear her talking 
that quietly through a sheet of glass, when there were 
buses rumbling along behind her and all the racket of 
a street full of shoppers. Then he reminded himself 
that dummies could not hear anyway. Next second 
his mouth opened in shock as the dummy gave a tiny 
nod, beckoned its jointed finger, and Tonks had 
seized Ginny and Mrs. Weasley by the elbows, 
stepped right through the glass and vanished. 

Fred, George, and Ron stepped after them; Harry 
glanced around at the jostling crowd; not one of them 
seemed to have a glance to spare for window displays 
as ugly as Purge and Dowse Ltd.’s, nor did any of 
them seem to have noticed that six people had just 
melted into thin air in front of them. 

“C’mon,” growled Moody, giving Harry yet another 
poke in the back and together they stepped forward 
through what felt like a sheet of cool water, emerging 
quite warm and dry on the other side. 

There was no sign of the ugly dummy or the space 
where she had stood. They had arrived in what 
seemed to be a crowded reception area where rows of 
witches and wizards sat upon rickety wooden chairs, 
some looking perfectly normal and perusing out-of- 
P a g e | 617Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




date copies of Witch Weekly, others sporting gruesome 
disfigurements such as elephant trunks or extra 
hands sticking out of their chests. The room was 
scarcely less quiet than the street outside, for many of 
the patients were making very peculiar noises. A 
sweaty-faced witch in the center of the front row, who 
was fanning herself vigorously with a copy of the 
Daily Prophet, kept letting off a high-pitched whistle 
as steam came pouring out of her mouth, and a 
grubby-looking warlock in the corner clanged like a 
bell every time he moved, and with each clang his 
head vibrated horribly, so that he had to seize himself 
by the ears and hold it steady. 

Witches and wizards in lime-green robes were walking 
up and down the rows, asking questions and making 
notes on clipboards like Umbridge’s. Harry noticed 
the emblem embroidered on their chests: a wand and 
bone, crossed. 

“Are they doctors?” he asked Ron quietly. 

“Doctors?” said Ron, looking startled. “Those Muggle 
nutters that cut people up? Nah, they’re Healers.” 

“Over here!” called Mrs. Weasley over the renewed 
clanging of the warlock in the corner, and they 
followed her to the queue in front of a plump blonde 
witch seated at a desk marked inquiries. The wall 
behind her was covered in notices and posters saying 
things like A CLEAN CAULDRON KEEPS POTIONS 
FROM BECOMING POISONS and ANTIDOTES ARE 
ANTI-DONTS UNLESS APPROVED BY A QUALIFIED 
HEALER. 

There was also a large portrait of a witch with long 
silver ringlets that was labelled 

DILYS DERWENT 

Page | 618Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ST. MUNGO’S HEALER 1722-1741 



HEADMISTRESS OF HOGWARTS SCHOOL OF 

WITCHCRAFT AND WIZARDRY, I74I-I768 

Dilys was eyeing the Weasley party as though 
counting them; when Harry caught her eye she gave a 
tiny wink, walked sideways out of her portrait, and 
vanished. 

Meanwhile, at the front of the queue, a young wizard 
was performing an odd on-the-spot jig and trying, in 
between yelps of pain, to explain his predicament to 
the witch behind the desk. 

“It’s these — ouch — shoes my brother gave me — ow 
— they’re eating my — OUCH — feet — look at them, 
there must be some kind of — AARGH — jinx on them 
and I can’t — AAAAARGH — get them off — ” 

He hopped from one foot to the other as though 
dancing on hot coals. 

“The shoes don’t prevent you reading, do they?” said 
the blonde witch irritably, pointing at a large sign to 
the left of her desk. “You want Spell Damage, fourth 
floor. Just like it says on the floor guide. Next!” 

The wizard hobbled and pranced sideways out of the 
way, the Weasley party moved forward a few steps 
and Harry read the floor guide: 

ARTIFACT ACCIDENTS Ground Floor 

(Cauldron explosion, wand backfiring, broom crashes, 
etc.) 



Page | 619Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




CREATURE-INDUCED INJURIES 



First Floor 



(Bites, stings, burns, embedded spines, etc.) 

MAGICAL BUGS Second Floor 

(Contagious maladies, e.g., dragon pox, vanishing 
sickness, scrofungulus) 

POTION AND PLANT POISONING .... Third Floor 

(Rashes, regurgitation, uncontrollable giggling, etc.) 

SPELL DAMAGE Fourth Floor 

(Unliftable jinxes, hexes, and incorrectly applied 
charms, etc.) 

VISITORS’ TEAROOM AND HOSPITAL SHOP... .Fifth 
Floor 

If you are unsure where to go, incapable, of normal 
speech, or unable to remember why you are here, our 
Welcome Witch will be pleased to help. 

A very old, stooped wizard with a hearing trumpet 
had shuffled to the front of the queue now. 

“I’m here to see Broderick Bode!” he wheezed. 

“Ward forty-nine, but I’m afraid you’re wasting your 
time,” said the witch dismissively “He’s completely 
addled, you know, still thinks he’s a teapot... Next!” 

A harassed-looking wizard was holding his small 
daughter tightly by the ankle while she flapped 
around his head using the immensely large, feathery 
wings that had sprouted right out the back of her 
romper suit. 

Page | 620Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Fourth floor,” said the witch in a bored voice, without 
asking, and the man disappeared through the double 
doors beside the desk, holding his daughter like an 
oddly shaped balloon. “Next!” 

Mrs. Weasley moved forward to the desk. 

“Hello,” she said. “My husband, Arthur Weasley, was 
supposed to be moved to a different ward this 
morning, could you tell us — ?” 

“Arthur Weasley?” said the witch, running her finger 
down a long list in front of her. “Yes, first floor, 
second door on the right, Dai Llewellyn ward.” 

“Thank you,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Come on, you lot.” 

They followed through the double doors and along the 
narrow corridor beyond, which was lined with more 
portraits of famous Healers and lit by crystal bubbles 
full of candles that floated up on the ceiling, looking 
like giant soapsuds. More witches and wizards in 
lime-green robes walked in and out of the doors they 
passed; a foul-smelling yellow gas wafted into the 
passageway as they passed one door, and every now 
and then they heard distant wailing. They climbed a 
flight of stairs and entered the “Creature-Induced 
Injuries” corridor, where the second door on the right 
bore the words “DANGEROUS” DAI LLEWELLYN 
WARD: SERIOUS BITES. Underneath this was a card 
in a brass holder on which had been handwritten 
Healer-in-Charge: Hippocrates Smethwyck, Trainee 
Healer: Augustus Pye. 

“Well wait outside, Molly,” Tonks said. “Arthur won’t 
want too many visitors at once... It ought to be just 
the family first.” 



Page | 621Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mad-Eye growled his approval of this idea and set 
himself with his back against the corridor wall, his 
magical eye spinning in all directions. Harry drew 
back too, but Mrs. Weasley reached out a hand and 
pushed him through the door, saying, “Don’t be silly, 
Harry, Arthur wants to thank you...” 

The ward was small and rather dingy as the only 
window was narrow and set high in the wall facing 
the door. Most of the light came from more shining 
crystal bubbles clustered in the middle of the ceiling. 
The walls were of panelled oak and there was a 
portrait of a rather vicious-looking wizard on the wall, 
captioned URQUHART RACKHARROW, 1612-1697, 
INVENTOR OF THE ENTRAIL- EXPELLING CURSE. 

There were only three patients. Mr. Weasley was 
occupying the bed at the far end of the ward beside 
the tiny window. Harry was pleased and relieved to 
see that he was propped up on several pillows and 
reading the Daily Prophet by the solitary ray of 
sunlight falling onto his bed. He looked around as 
they walked toward him and, seeing whom it was, 
beamed. 

“Hello!” he called, throwing the Prophet aside. “Bill 
just left, Molly, had to get back to work, but he says 
he’ll drop in on you later...” 

“How are you, Arthur?” asked Mrs. Weasley, bending 
down to kiss his cheek and looking anxiously into his 
face. “You’re still looking a bit peaky...” 

“I feel absolutely fine,” said Mr. Weasley brightly, 
holding out his good arm to give Ginny a hug. “If they 
could only take the bandages off, I’d be fit to go 
home.” 

“Why can’t they take them off, Dad?” asked Fred. 

Page | 622Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, I start bleeding like mad every time they try,” 
said Mr. Weasley cheerfully, reaching across for his 
wand, which lay on his bedside cabinet, and waving it 
so that six extra chairs appeared at his bedside to 
seat them all. “It seems there was some rather 
unusual kind of poison in that snake’s fangs that 
keeps wounds open... They’re sure they’ll find an 
antidote, though, they say they’ve had much worse 
cases than mine, and in the meantime I just have to 
keep taking a Blood-Replenishing Potion every hour. 
But that fellow over there,” he said, dropping his voice 
and nodding toward the bed opposite in which a man 
lay looking green and sickly and staring at the ceiling. 
“Bitten by a werewolf, poor chap. No cure at all.” 

“A werewolf?” whispered Mrs. Weasley, looking 
alarmed. “Is he safe in a public ward? Shouldn’t he be 
in a private room?” 

“It’s two weeks till full moon,” Mr. Weasley reminded 
her quietly. “They’ve been talking to him this 
morning, the Healers, you know, trying to persuade 
him he’ll be able to lead an almost normal life. I said 
to him — didn’t mention names, of course — but I 
said I knew a werewolf personally, very nice man, who 
finds the condition quite easy to manage...” 

“What did he say?” asked George. 

“Said he’d give me another bite if I didn’t shut up,” 
said Mr. Weasley sadly. “And that woman over there,” 
he indicated the only other occupied bed, which was 
right beside the door, “won’t tell the Healers what bit 
her, which makes us all think it must have been 
something she was handling illegally. Whatever it was 
took a real chunk out of her leg, very nasty smell 
when they take off the dressings.” 



Page | 623Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“So, you going to tell us what happened, Dad?” asked 
Fred, pulling his chair closer to the bed. 

“Well, you already know, don’t you?” said Mr. 

Weasley, with a significant smile at Harry. “It’s very 
simple — I’d had a very long day, dozed off, got 
sneaked up on, and bitten.” 

“Is it in the Prophet, you being attacked?” asked Fred, 
indicating the newspaper Mr. Weasley had cast aside. 

“No, of course not,” said Mr. Weasley, with a slightly 
bitter smile, “the Ministry wouldn’t want everyone to 
know a dirty great serpent got — ” 

“Arthur!” said Mrs. Weasley warningly. 

“ — got — er — me,” Mr. Weasley said hastily, though 
Harry was quite sure that was not what he had meant 
to say. 

“So where were you when it happened, Dad?” asked 
George. 

“That’s my business,” said Mr. Weasley, though with 
a small smile. He snatched up the Daily Prophet, 
shook it open again and said, “I was just reading 
about Willy Widdershins’s arrest when you arrived. 
You know Willy turned out to be behind those 
regurgitating toilets last summer? One of his jinxes 
backfired, the toilet exploded, and they found him 
lying unconscious in the wreckage covered from head 
to foot in — ” 

“When you say you were ‘on duty,’ ” Fred interrupted 
in a low voice, “what were you doing?” 



Page | 624Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You heard your father,” whispered Mrs. Weasley, “we 
are not discussing this here! Go on about Willy 
Widdershins, Arthur — ” 

“Well, don’t ask me how, but he actually got off on the 
toilet charge,” said Mr. Weasley grimly. “I can only 
suppose gold changed hands — ” 

“You were guarding it, weren’t you?” said George 
quietly. “The weapon? The thing You-Know- Who’s 
after?” 

“George, be quiet!” snapped Mrs. Weasley. 

“Anyway,” said Mr. Weasley in a raised voice, “this 
time Willy’s been caught selling biting doorknobs to 
Muggles, and I don’t think he’ll be able to worm his 
way out of it because according to this article, two 
Muggles have lost fingers and are now in St. Mungo’s 
for emergency bone regrowth and memory 
modification. Just think of it, Muggles in St. Mungo’s! 
I wonder which ward they’re in?” 

And he looked eagerly around as though hoping to 
see a signpost. 

“Didn’t you say You-Know- Who’s got a snake, Harry?” 
asked Fred, looking at his father for a reaction. “A 
massive one? You saw it the night he returned, didn’t 
you?” 

“That’s enough,” said Mrs. Weasley crossly. “Mad-Eye 
and Tonks are outside, Arthur, they want to come 
and see you. And you lot can wait outside,” she added 
to her children and Harry. “You can come and say 
good-bye afterward. Go on...” 



Page | 625Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They trooped back into the corridor. Mad-Eye and 
Tonks went in and closed the door of the ward behind 
them. Fred raised his eyebrows. 

“Fine,” he said coolly, rummaging in his pockets, “be 
like that. Don’t tell us anything.” 

“Looking for these?” said George, holding out what 
looked like a tangle of flesh-colored string. 

“You read my mind,” said Fred, grinning. “Let’s see if 
St. Mungo’s puts Imperturbable Charms on its ward 
doors, shall we?” 

He and George disentangled the string and separated 
five Extendable Ears from each other. Fred and 
George handed them around. Harry hesitated to take 
one. 

“Go on, Harry, take it! You saved Dad’s life, if 
anyone’s got the right to eavesdrop on him it’s you...” 

Grinning in spite of himself, Harry took the end of the 
string and inserted it into his ear as the twins had 
done. 

“Okay, go!” Fred whispered. 

The flesh-colored strings wriggled like long skinny 
worms, then snaked under the door. For a few 
seconds Harry could hear nothing, then he heard 
Tonks whispering as clearly as though she were 
standing right beside him. 

"... they searched the whole area but they couldn’t 
find the snake anywhere, it just seems to have 
vanished after it attacked you, Arthur... But You- 
Know-Who can’t have expected a snake to get in, can 
he?” 

Page | 626Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I reckon he sent it as a lookout,” growled Moody, “ 
’cause he’s not had any luck so far, has he? No, I 
reckon he’s trying to get a clearer picture of what he’s 
facing and if Arthur hadn’t been there the beast 
would’ve had much more time to look around. So 
Potter says he saw it all happen?” 

“Yes,” said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded rather uneasy. 
“You know, Dumbledore seems almost to have been 
waiting for Harry to see something like this...” 

“Yeah, well,” said Moody, “there’s something funny 
about the Potter kid, we all know that.” 

“Dumbledore seemed worried about Harry when I 
spoke to him this morning,” whispered Mrs. Weasley. 

“ ’Course he’s worried,” growled Moody. “The boy’s 
seeing things from inside You-Know- Who’s snake... 
Obviously, Potter doesn’t realize what that means, but 
if You- Know- Who’s possessing him — ” 

