The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Star-Master, by Ray Cummings

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: The Star-Master

Author: Ray Cummings

Release Date: May 20, 2020 [EBook #62170]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR-MASTER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            THE STAR-MASTER

                            By RAY CUMMINGS

                    Docile, decadent Venus was easy
                pickings for that twenty-first century
                   Hitler's dream of cosmic empire.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


My name is Arthur Frane. You who read this story now, of course
are familiar with momentous events into which I was unexpectedly
plunged--momentous for all mankind.

I write this narrative now to add the true details to what you have
all read and heard blared by the newscasters around the world. I have
been extolled as a hero although I did nothing except try to keep from
getting killed.

I was twenty-six years old last summer, in June of 2003, when fate
so strangely brought Venta and me together. My family is wealthy, as
you have heard. Do not envy me for that. An income of ten thousand
decimars, however nice it may seem in theory, is in reality no
advantage to a young man of twenty-six. I am a big blond fellow whom
the newscasters have been pleased to call Viking-like and handsome as a
god. I'm much obliged. But whatever truth there is in it, that too has
been a disadvantage.

The weird events began in July, last summer, when with Jim Gregg I
went hunting in that Adirondac forest. Jim and I were in Government
College together. I left to spend my income and become a dawdler--the
disadvantage of money; and Jim joined the Crime Prevention Bureau of
the New York Shadow Squad. We got a one-day hunting permit. Jim took
his official crime-tracker equipment, with an extra flash-gun for me;
we flew to the Adirondac mountain slope which our permit named and
hopefully set out on foot to try our luck.

But we had no luck. A few birds, which even the minimum pencil-ray
flash had all but burned to a crisp, were all we had bagged. Evening
came, with twilight settling so that the forest glades were deepening
into purple. And then suddenly it seemed that we heard a rustling in
the underbrush--a rustling which ought to be a deer.

We crouched in a thicket, waiting. The sound stopped. "Let's try the
listener," I whispered.

Jim got out his little eavesdropping gadget. But he had no time to
connect it. The rustling began again. It was obviously up a short slope
no more than a hundred feet from us--some wild animal which seemed now
to be retreating.

"I'll take a chance," I muttered. "If that's a deer, we'll lose it if I
can't drill it now."

We knew it could not be a human, since our permit for today barred
anyone else from the twenty square miles of Government preserve
allotted to us. I fired at the sound, with my violet pencil-flash
eating through the underbrush at the top of the slope.

There was a startled, weird outcry; and from the summit of the little
rise a shape broke cover. A girl! She came bursting from a thicket no
more than three feet to the side of the swath my flash had burned, and
for a second or two she stood poised on a rock with the open evening
sky a background above and behind her. A slim shape of bare legs and
arms with a brief drape from shoulders to her thighs. The starlight and
fading daylight gleamed on her bronzed skin as though she were a metal
statue.

"Well--I say--" Jim muttered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thoughts are instant things. There was in my mind the vague idea that
here, by some wild circumstances, was a girl in a fancy-dress party
costume or something of the kind. But the thought, and Jim's muttered
words of astonishment, were in another second stricken away. She paused
for that instant on the rock, and then she leaped. Amazing, incredible
leap! It carried her in a flat arc some ten or fifteen feet above the
ground and twenty feet away, where light as a faun she landed on the
toes of her bare feet. Nearer to us now; and seeing us, perhaps for the
first time, she stood and stared.

I could see the silvery streaks running through the black hair that
framed her face. It was a queerly beautiful face, apparently devoid of
normal cosmetic-make-up. Negroid? Oriental? In that second I had the
thought that it was neither--nor anything else that I could name. A
girl with a mysterious wild beauty which stirred my pulses.

"Well--good Lord--" Jim muttered again. He too was staring, with a
hand in his shock of bristling red hair, and I can imagine the look of
numbed astonishment on his freckled, pug-nosed face. "Good Lord, how
did she jump like that?"

I heard myself stammering, "You--up there--what in the devil--"

Like a terrified fugitive the girl abruptly swept a look behind her;
and then she leaped again, and landed almost beside us.

"You--you--Oh you mus' help me! There was a flash that tried to kill
me--"

English! With weird, indescribable intonation, she gasped the English
words.

"I--shot at you," I stammered. "Sorry--we thought you were an animal.
No human is allowed here today but us."

Somehow it seemed futile, incongruous that I should try to explain
anything rational to a girl so weird as this.

But she smiled. "Oh--I thought--I thought--"

"Someone is after you?" Jim said quickly.

"Yes. I thought--but I guess not now. Oh you are good Earthmen--not
like Curtmann. I escaped, and I have come long long a way from my poor
terrified people."

I saw Jim glance at me significantly. We both had the same thought, of
course. A girl demented; with painted skin and fancy dress--trappings
of insanity; and she had escaped from some asylum?

But those leaps were far beyond the power of any trained athlete!

"What's your name?" I murmured.

"Venta. I was a prisoner--and now I have to tell someone of importance
here on Earth. I did escape when I was brought here by Curtmann." She
babbled it out, breathless, terrified. "I did not know what to do, he
is so bad to my people--to the Midge--to all of us. And I--I do not
love him. I am afraid of him. In Shan he rules--and my family now are
all in the great Forest City. And Curtmann will capture that too."

Blankly Jim and I exchanged glances. And suddenly with a muttered oath,
Jim gasped,

"My God, Art! Look at that--thing! There--behind you!"

I whirled. But whatever he had seen, or thought he saw, was gone.

"Behind me? What?"

"Why--why--" Jim could only gasp. The girl was staring at us blankly.
Jim was stupified into incoherency. "Why--why--a little thing--it
ran--" And then he raised his left wrist with another muttered gasp.

"What in the devil?" I demanded. "Are you crazy too?"

"Electro-eavesdropper on us! Look--" An eavesdropper detector was on
his wrist, connected with his watch. Part of his S.S. equipment and he
always wore it. The underplate was glowing now, its warmth against his
flesh attracting his attention.

An eavesdropper being used against us! I knew it was illegal for anyone
but a Federal Man to have one; but criminals had them, and most of the
other S.S. devices and weapons, of course. Some criminal was near here,
listening to us now!

"Someone not far away!" Jim gasped. "Look at that dial!"

His little detector-needle was swaying violently, in the range of one
to two hundred feet. Then it swung back to normal as the ray evidently
was shut off.

I snatched out my flash-gun. Jim and I crouched with the numbed,
terrified girl between us.

"Oh--" she muttered. "They have come, and they will kill us."

"There it is again!" Jim's hand gripped my arm. "My God--that little
thing!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The purple shadows of night were deepening in the forest now. But in
the gloom I saw it. On the bole of a tree no more than six or eight
feet from us a tiny figure stood peering at us. The glistening,
brown-bronze figure of a man; a broad-shouldered, stocky little
figure no more than a foot high! I had an instant glimpse of a
powerfully-muscled body, a tiny hairless round head, then the creature
leaped to the ground, recovered its balance and ran. In another second
it was lost in the gloom.

The girl too, had seen it. "A Midge! Here? Why--then Curtmann's men are
here, too!"

She stopped abruptly. From the leafy darkness something hurtled into a
tree beside us. There was the faint tinkling of fragile glass, then a
sickening sweet smell assailed us, and sticky liquid splattered on us.

"Anesthesia-bomb!" Jim gasped. "Get away from here--grab the girl!"

My head was reeling, with senses fading so that the dim scene was
blurring around me. Jim and I dragged the girl through the thickets.
Then came a shot at us, the sizzling flash just missing us, shriveling
the foliage over our heads. Jim's shot answered it. I saw a skulking
figure by a nearby tree, and fired quickly. My shot caught him full; he
went down.

In front of me, Jim had dropped prone into the brush. His voice warned:
"They're here. Get down."

We had no chance to fight them off. I drilled a shape that appeared in
front of me; but another pounced on my shoulders as I crouched. Blurred
by the drug, I squirmed, reached up and grabbed him by the throat. But
another man was on us. Jim's shot sounded again; and then as I fought,
I saw several dark shapes leaping on him. His panting oaths mingled
with the girl's scream.

In the melee glass hit my face, breaking with the sticky drug oozing
out on me. A man's fist followed it, with a crack that made my head
burst into roaring light before I drifted off into an abyss of
nothingness....


                                  II

I came to with the sound of distant throbbing in my ears. It seemed
that I was lying on a metal grid-floor; and as I stirred, a familiar
voice sounded.

"Thank the Lord, you're coming out of it at last."

It was Jim, here on the floor with me, bending anxiously over me in a
luminous darkness. His pug-nosed face grinned down at me.

"I sure thought you might never come back, Art. You been a day,
sleeping off that damned drug."

Dizzily I tried to sit up as he held me. "What--what happened? Where
the devil are we?" Then I remembered the fight. "Venta--" I murmured.

"She's all right. I've seen her, and talked with her."

I could see that Jim and I were alone in a small, triangular metal
apartment. A closed door was to one side. And to the other, there was
a round bull's-eye window. It was black out there, with bright white
points of stars. The thrumming was a faint distant electronic throb,
off in this strange interior.

I could feel my strength rapidly coming back. I sat up, shoving Jim
away. "I'm all right now. Where are we?"

He grinned wryly. "Hold your breath for a shock. We're out in Space,
plenty far. I guess, by now, we're on our way to Venus!"

Out in Space! How often, like everyone else in our modern world of
science, I had envisaged it, and wondered why it had never been made
possible.

"On the way to Venus?"

"So they tell me, an' Lord knows I wouldn't doubt it. If you don't
believe me, come take a look."

With his arm around me, I staggered dizzily to the bull's-eye porte. It
was an amazing scene! The Heavens everywhere were a black vault, strewn
with myriad white gems of the blazing worlds. Filling one whole side,
the familiar Earth hung motionless. It was mottled with clouds, beneath
which the configurations of the oceans and continents were plainly
visible.

I stared, awed, wordless; and then, still weak and dizzy with the cold
sweat of the drug chilling me, I was glad enough to sit down on the
couch, with Jim beside me.

"Who's got us?" I asked presently.

"A fellow named Curtmann and his band. A dozen or more of them here
on board. I've talked with one of them--they're all Earthmen--this
ship was built on Earth. Would you believe it? A damned scientist from
mid-Europe built it secretly. He never told the world about it, but
gathered a bunch of crooks and beat it off."

"Not so fast," I murmured. "Don't get incoherent."

       *       *       *       *       *

I tried to sort it out as he breathlessly told me what he had
learned. Some eight or ten years ago, among the captive people of
mid-Europe under police domination of the Anglo-American Federation,
a fellow named Karl Curtmann had built this hundred foot cylindrical
space-flyer. The same old urge for world conquest. But this fellow
Curtmann had known that on Earth he had no chance. This was not
1915, nor 1939. And so he had gathered others like himself; all
English-speaking, since their racial language had been banned by the
Federation before they were born, and with his ship and his men, they
had adventured into Space.

"Seems they landed on Venus," Jim was saying. "It was a fertile field
for a world-conqueror, by what I hear! Peaceful, simple people, with
these Earth cutthroats jumping on them. They used a bunch of our
Shadow Squad weapons, which was enough and plenty."

Once established there as a conqueror, Curtmann had gone back to Earth
on several trips, for supplies and more weapons and men.

"I guess there are several hundred of 'em on Venus now," Jim went
on. "Built themselves a little city, and made slaves out of the
Venus-people. You can imagine what this style Earthman would do when
he's a conqueror with nothing to challenge him! And the Venus-people
are on the down-grade. Dying out, except for the Midges."

"Midges?"

"They're the little people of Venus. They serve. They believe that all
Earth men are gods, or something." Jim shrugged. "Don't ask me. We'll
find out soon enough."

The Midge! I remembered that little bronze man-figure which had peered
at us.

"And Venta?" I prompted.

"Her father--No, I guess it's her grandfather--he's a leader on Venus.
Religious leader, or something. He and some others have escaped to a
Forest City. Curtmann had Venta. Venta says he's just trying to make
her love him--make her see how wonderful he is. Curtmann, the Man of
Destiny--I can't wait to meet him!"

He had taken Venta on one of his forays to Earth, and she had escaped
from him. "An' they got us along with her," Jim finished wryly. "Damned
lucky we didn't get killed. We will yet, most probably."

A little rasp here in the darkness made us turn. A doorslide had
opened; a man's heavy-featured face scowled in at us.

"At last you have recovered," he said to me. His voice was the heavy,
guttural timber of a mid-European. He was a villainous-looking fellow,
his slack-jowled face bluish with a week's growth of beard.

"Yes," I said. "Fortunately for me. Are you Curtmann?"

"He's Frantz," Jim put in. "He's been feeding me."

"Tell your master I want to see him," I said. "And take me to the girl,
Venta."

The fellow leered. "You talk like you own the ship," he commented.

The doorslide closed. His footsteps retreated, but presently they came
back. He opened the door. "The Great-Master says, bring you," he said
with an ironic grin. "Come on. You can both come."

       *       *       *       *       *

Silently we followed him down a narrow metal corridor.

"This way--" I saw our captor now as a bulky six-foot fellow clad
incongruously in a crudely plaited robe of dried vegetable fibre,
draped upon him like a Roman toga. He stood aside at an oval doorway;
and Jim and I went into a small triangular room. Starlight filtered
into it from a side bull's-eye.

Clad still in her brief garment, Venta sat on a square pad on the
floor. As we entered she flung me a look, and then stared straight
ahead.

"So? This is the fellow who thought he would steal my little Venta?
Come in, Frane. Stand over there; I want to look you over."

Karl Curtmann. He was seated in a small, straight-backed armchair. He
was a smallish, slim fellow, not over forty perhaps. A vivid blue toga
encased him; sandals were on his feet. At our entrance he raised one of
his bare ornamented arms with a gesture.

The costume was queerly incongruous to a modern Earthman; but upon
Curtmann there was an immense dignity, a sense of the consciousness
of his own greatness. More than mere conceit, it seemed to radiate
from him. On his heavy, square-jawed face there was a look of amused
contempt as he regarded me.

"My little Venta has asked me not to kill you," he added. His voice was
soft and suave. English was his native language, taught him exclusively
by Government decree. But the inherited timbre was guttural. "That is
fortunate, is it not?"

"Yes," I agreed. "Very. I thank her."

His eyes twinkled; his immaculate hands with jeweled fingers, brushed
his crisp blond hair. "You can also thank me. I am permitting you to
join our life. You know now, of course, that I am Master of Venus? It
is their good fortune. Always I shall protect them from any harm, and
teach them the life that is good for them."

He was utterly sincere. His eyes were gleaming with his fervour. Man of
Destiny. He believed it with the faith of a child. And now his gaze
went to Venta.

"Her people--" He was still talking to me, though he stared at her.
"Some of them still are misguided. Old Prytan, her grandfather, is a
very wicked old man, Frane. He has fled to the Forest City. He defies
my rule. I shall have to punish that Forest City."

Suddenly his face contorted; his arm shook as he pounded his fist on
his chair. "I shall not tolerate it. They are all to die. Nor in the
city of Shan itself will I have rebellion. I am a man of peace--there
shall be no strife. And each year, from Earth, more of my men will come
to mate with the Venus women. The new race. The new Empire of Curtmann.
Is it not a wonderful future, Venta? I shall make you Empress."

"Yes," she murmured.

"Race of the Gods," he said. "And I--Karl Curtmann--"

He checked himself. There was a little sound of beating wings here in
the dim starlit room. I turned as through the door a tiny shape came
like a fluttering bird through the air. A footlong bronze man-shape.
One of the Midge! Again my mind leaped back to that little figure in
the Adirondac forest. It had had wings, though then I had not noticed
them.

This one came and poised on the arm of Curtmann's chair. "What is it,
Rahn?" he said.

The Midge's voice was tiny, but clear. "The flight-master has asked
that you come now to check his calculations of our course." The English
words, taught to this Midge, were quaintly intoned. The voice was
gentle, humble.

Curtmann stood up. "All right. I shall go." He waved an arm at the
burly Frantz who was standing silently to one side. "Our captives can
remain here, Frantz."

He turned, smiled gently at Venta, and strode from the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the days passed we were allowed a fair freedom of movement. A
freedom to plan--what? I must confess that Jim and I had no conception
of what we might do in circumstances like these.

Once Venta had whispered to me, "We shall escape from here--it can be
done."

Escape from this Curtmann, join Venta's grandfather--old Prytan--out
there in the Venus Forest City.... Certainly it was all that Jim and I
could hope for. And then came that night when the misty lead-grey ball
of Venus had grown to a monstrous disc beneath us, with the cone of its
shadow blotting out the Sun as we dropped down into the heavy Venus
atmosphere. There came a moment when Venta, Jim and I were alone, and
from the dim corridor with a little beat of wings, Rhan, the Midge,
came to join us. He was carrying an oxohydro heat-torch. Amazing little
man-shape. The alumite torch was as big as himself, and heavier. His
diaphanous, dragonfly wings struggled with it. Like a giant flying ant,
with an ant's monstrous strength in proportion to its size. Panting, he
fluttered heavily and laid it at my feet.

"You, the Great God," he said. "I serve you. Here it is."

He stood now by the torch he had brought. The muscles on his broad
chest heaved under the sleek bronzed skin with his panting breath.

"For you," he added. "No one saw me. I got it for you. I did well,
Seyla Venta?"

"Oh yes. Thank you, Rhan." Venta was trembling now with excitement.
"When we get lower into the atmosphere, we'll go to one of the
pressure-portes at the bottom of the hull. There are space suits there,
if we can get to them."

"Let's close this door," Jim said quickly. "Not so loud, Venta."

We planned it, as the ship settled down through the heavy,
sullen-looking Venus clouds and then burst out into the lower
atmosphere with the dark surface of Venus far down beneath us. Rhan
watched and reported that Curtmann and most of his men were forward by
the control turret. Then Jim, Venta and I were able to get down through
one of the dim corridors, down a little catwalk ladder into the lower
hull. The metal pressure porte door was locked.

I stood at the bottom of the ladder. Above me the voices of Curtmann's
ruffians were audible. Every moment I expected that we would be missed.

"Hurry it," I murmured.

The porte doorlock melted as Jim held the torch upon it. We slid into
the porte, closed the door after us. Venta, on the voyage to Earth, had
been trained by Curtmann in the use of these pressure-suits, and in a
moment we stood in them, helmeted, with the air bloating the suits so
that we were shapeless monsters.

I opened the outer doorslide. A little at first, and then wider. In
the rarified atmosphere of Venus at this fifty mile height, the air of
the little porte went out with a rush. It blew us out with it. I had a
sickening sensation of falling into nothingness. Then it seemed that my
head steadied. I fumbled with a hand upon the anti-gravity mechanisms
by which the fall could be guided.

Above me the dark finned shape of Curtmann's space ship was drawing
swiftly upward and away. Head down, with the bloated shapes of Jim
and Venta beside me, we plummeted like falling meteorites through the
sub-stratosphere darkness.


                                  III

"A rainbow storm is coming," old Prytan said. "We shall have to wait
until it is passed before trying to get to the broken city."

We were in the depths of an orange-blue forest of giant, spindly
vegetation that rose in fantastic shapes from the soft, porous ground
five hundred feet or more into the air. Pods and vines hung upon the
lacery of trees. There were huge vivid flowers, redolent with a perfume
exotic, cloying in the heavy humid air.

Everything, particularly at first, to me was heavy, oppressive. Venus
is denser than the Earth, and the gravity is a full third heavier. It
made walking, to us Earthmen, a panting labor. I felt that I weighed,
not my normal hundred and eighty pounds, but almost two hundred and
fifty. For us to run seemed impossible.

I had seen but little of this Forest City. It was a group of perhaps a
thousand dwellings, all seemingly built of slabs of the porous forest
trees, with walls and roofs of thatch. The houses nestled between the
great fantastic trees. Some were like birds' nests in the branches,
with vine-ladders from the ground leading up to them. The colors of the
thatch were vivid blue, red and yellow.

It was a fairyland of woodland fantasy, peopled by the humans of this
scattered, futile Venus-race. I had seen gaping groups of them as
Venta and I pushed through them, heading for old Prytan's dwelling.
Men, women and children crowded the flower-lined, crooked little city
streets. They were all gaudily-dressed in toga-like fabrics made from
the vivid-colored, dried vegetable fibres. A few of them had fled
here from Shan where they had picked up a little English from the
Earth-conquerors. But most of them babbled at me in their own weird
tongue. They were a gentle people. The lack of struggle, lack of
accomplishment for generations now, had stamped them with a futility.
Here in the benign climate of Venus they had grown content with simple
wants. Love-making, music--that was enough for them. The Midge attended
their every want.

Decadence perhaps, but who shall say but what it is to be preferred
to the bloody upward struggles of our own Earth's history? All that
too, had been upon Venus. Far ahead of Earth in the life-cycle of its
humans, there had been great scientific civilizations here. The science
of war had risen into all its ghastly power and then had destroyed
itself, with mankind at last coming to realize its tragic futility.
There were ruins of great cities here, with the silt of centuries upon
them and the forests growing lush amid their wreckage.

"You two Earthmen are not quite like Curtmann and his fellows," old
Prytan said to me. His eyes twinkled beneath his shaggy white brows.
His seamed old face wrinkled with a smile.

"No," I said. "We hope not."

"But your Earth still struggles, with each man wanting more than his
neighbor."

We were in a room of a huge, crudely-built dwelling of thatch. A
thousand Midges had woven it in a day. Venta was here; and draped
on the floor at her feet was the graceful, gaudily-clad figure of a
young Venusman. His name was Jahnt. He was her cousin, I understood.
A handsome fellow with longish, bushy dark hair; an oval face with
pointed chin, hawk nose and eyes with an almost Oriental slant. He
spoke English as fluently as Venta. I don't know why I took an instant
dislike to him, save that he always seemed to want to be beside Venta.

A rainbow storm was coming. I could see the premonitory signs of it.
The room here was lighted with little braziers--seemingly the caged
bodies of tiny insects which were luminous as fireflies. Through the
oval window-openings the night outside was turgidly dark. But wind
now was pattering the trees, and there were distant flares of weird
opalescent lightning.

A tenseness was here in this room of old Prytan's home--and it was
everywhere about the little city. Like an aura of terror it seemed to
envelope us. All this day that had passed, Midges by hundreds had been
flying in from Shan. And now, this evening, the big people themselves
had begun coming. Fugitives. Terrified people who had escaped from
Shan; rebellious, wanting to do something to rid Venus of these cruel
conquerors, coming to Prytan as their leader; helplessly throwing
themselves upon him, asking him what they should do. Groups of people
milled in the streets, eyed the coming storm. Rebellion against the
Earth-conquerors. But it was more than that. Among us all, here in this
eerie opalescent room there was the feeling of impending disaster.
Curtmann had returned to Shan. In a rage at the loss of Venta, he had
learned that the rebellion against him was growing. Would he wait for
old Prytan to organize some attack? Certainly I doubted it. And my mind
swept back so that again I seemed to hear his grim words: "I shall have
to punish that Forest City!"

Was Curtmann planning to strike at us now?

"... but until the storm is over we can do nothing," old Prytan was
saying.

Even then, what could we do? In somber voices that seemed to echo
dully through the rustic room and mingled with the weird storm-noises
outside, we discussed it. One of the great broken cities of by-gone
days was only some ten miles away. In it there was hidden away a cache
of ancient weapons of science.

"I have kept them workable," Prytan said grimly. "And my father before
me also attended them. And before him, his father. But never did we
really think the horrible time would come when they should be used."

       *       *       *       *       *

But whatever we could do, certainly must be done soon. The news from
Shan every moment was more serious. Upon Curtmann's return, open
disorder had broken out in the capital city. As punishment, a thousand
or more of the young Venusmen of the city had been summarily killed by
the diabolic flash-guns of the Earthmen. "Only our men he kills," young
Jahnt put in ironically. "Why not? Our women are very beautiful. Like
you, is it not so, Venta?"

I tensed at the glance with which he swept her. "I shall bring in the
supper," Venta said. His gaze followed her as she rose and left us.

"I tell you all this about our hidden weapons," Prytan was saying to
me in his cracked treble voice. "We can trust you, even though you are
Earthmen?"

"Yes," I agreed.

"Listen," Jim put in. "These young men you've got here--well, no
offense meant--on Earth we'd call them ladylike." His gaze barely
touched the gaudy figure of Jahnt and then went back to Prytan. "My
business, sir, on Earth is to deal with criminals. I'm pretty good in
a fight. You just give me some of your weapons."

"I trust you," Prytan agreed. "Never, until tonight, has anyone but
myself known about the weapons. If Curtmann knew it--"

"He won't," I said. "We'll get them tonight. We--"

I checked myself. The beat of wings sounded, and a Midge came through
the window, and landed on Prytan's shoulder.

"Well, Meeta," he said, "you come with more bad news?"

A female Midge. It was the first one I had seen except at a distance.
She was a fairylike little creature--a ten-inch high miniature
of Venta. Her flesh was like pink-white satin, glistening in the
insect-light. Her wings thrummed to balance her as she poised.

"English?" she said in her tiny voice.

"Yes," Prytan nodded. "These are good Earthmen."

Her pixie-like, tiny face turned toward me. I saw then, in those tiny
glowing eyes, the leap of her instinctive adoration for my giant size.
Here a new God for her to worship and serve.

"English, yes," she agreed. "Master, there have been still more
killings. They kill our men now for no reason; and those of the women
who are young and beautiful they have herded together into a harem."

Prytan's old body trembled with anger. "We must stop it. And Meeta,
have you told the Midge to meet us in the broken city?"

"Master, yes. They will be there when the storm is passed. We cannot
fly in the wind, and even now it is very strong."

I could hear it, crackling through the giant foliage outside. Then
there was a monstrous flare of color as though a rainbow had burst
around us.

"It gets bad," young Jahnt muttered. He went to one of the windows;
then sauntered to a door-oval and disappeared.

Meeta, I understood now, was one of the leaders of the Midge. It was
her brother who had aided us to escape from Curtmann's ship. I told her
about it now as she perched on my hand, with her soft eyes roaming my
face and her tiny lips parted with eager breath as she listened.

"Oh I am glad of that. Rahn so wants to do what is right in serving
our Gods. But it is confusing, Gods here on Venus who fight with one
another--"

Through the window, upon a blast of storm-wind another little figure
came fluttering. Another female Midge, like Meeta. With beating wings
she hovered a second and then fell to the floor at our feet.

"Mela!" old Prytan gasped. "What is it?"

The storm had tossed her against a tree. One of her wings was broken;
blood was on her body. But she had struggled on to us, bringing her
news.

"What is it?" old Prytan demanded.

"Curtmann comes! He and all his men--his army, coming now to attack the
Forest City!"

Curtmann coming to attack us! A dozen little male Midges here on the
floor of the room heard it and scurried away.

"Curtmann coming?" Prytan gasped. "Why--why we will not be ready for
him."

It stunned us. Within a minute, out in the city, the news was spreading
with cries of the frightened people. A panic was beginning here. That
would have to be controlled.

"They've left Shan already?" I demanded of the little Midge.

"No. Perhaps not. But they are ready--the storm may hold them off."

       *       *       *       *       *

I was on my feet. Old Prytan was trembling with the palsy of his
confused terror. By what Jim and I had seen of the young men of the
Forest City, there was not one who could be counted on to do anything
constructive in this crisis. If the Venus-people were to have any
leadership, it would have to be Jim and me.

"Send word that the women and children are to stay in their homes,"
I said. "There must be no panic. Have the young men come here. Storm
or no storm we shall have to get to the broken city, and get those
Venus-weapons."

"How far is it from here to Shan?" Jim put in.

"Twenty Earth-miles perhaps," old Prytan stammered. "If Curtmann and
his men should start now--"

"Maybe they won't," I said. "The storm is still going strong."

"Where is Venta?" Prytan stared helplessly about the room. "She said
she would bring us food. What use of that? We have no time to eat it
now." He suddenly raised his shaking old voice. "Venta. Venta, where
are you?"

There was no answer from the nearby interior door-oval through which
Venta had gone. Just blank, stark silence. Horror struck at me.

Jim and I were on our feet. Jim gasped, "I'll go see." But before he
could move, we heard a woman's moan, followed again by silence!

Jim broke it with an oath. I tossed little Meeta into the air with a
flip of my hand as I ran toward the crude kitchen, out there beyond the
dim door-oval.

Thank God, it was not Venta. On the packed loam of the floor an old
serving woman lay sprawled. Her throat was a ghastly welter of crimson,
and near her a Midge lay dead.

The old woman was still alive. She tried faintly to gasp in English as
I bent over her.

"He--took her--Venta--"

"Who took her?"

"Jahnt--he--"

The blood choked her. But I had no interest in hearing more. Jahnt!

"Why--he's got the secret of those weapons now!" Jim gasped. "Get the
idea, Art?"

The commotion had brought others. They all stood milling, helpless,
frightened. Jim and I shoved them away.

"He'd probably head for the broken city," Jim said. "It's much closer
to here."

"That he might do," Prytan agreed. "And where is his Midge--you
people--you have seen little Ort lately?"

"Jahnt could send that Midge flying to Shanga to tell Curtmann about
the weapons," I suggested.

Old Prytan could only stammer assent to the possibility. And if
Curtmann and his ruffians got to that cache before we could get there,
that indeed would be the end of any possibility of overcoming him.

"Where is Meeta?" I demanded. "Meeta knows the location of the broken
city."

She fluttered from behind me at the sound of my voice. "Master I am
here. What I can do to serve?"

"We're going after Jahnt," Jim said. "He can't have gotten far."

"But you run so heavily," old Prytan murmured. "My young men here--"

They were all standing looking frightened and confused. Jim swept them
with a glance and drew me past them. It occurred to me that we might
use the three spacesuits in which we had escaped from Curtmann. With
their anti-gravity mechanisms and tiny rocket-streams we could propel
ourselves over the forest. But we found now that they were gone.

Precious minutes were passing. We would have to go on foot. At the door
we paused, appalled by the wind and a chromatic burst of glaring light.
Meeta fluttered in the air beside my head, and as the wind hit her she
was tossed back.

"You can't fly out into that, Meeta?"

"No, I am afraid it's not possible now. But you can carry me."

She fluttered to my shoulder, crouching with a tiny hand gripping my
coat collar. With Jim beside me we plunged out into the roaring riot of
the rainbow storm.


                                  IV

"Guess we'll have to wait a bit longer," Jim murmured. "But it seems to
be easing, don't you think?"

In a sheltered recess of the forest we were crouching, forced to wait
for the weird storm to pass. There had been no possible chance of
finding the fleeing Jahnt. We could only hope now that he would go on
to the broken city. The storm seemed to be lessening but still it was
a roar of wind which cracked through the spindly giant trees, often
bringing down great segments of branches which it had torn loose.

A lull came at last, and through a ragged, littered forest Jim and I
pushed our tortuous way. Meeta could fly now. She guided us, and with
little forays hummed ahead and to the sides, seeking some signs of
Jahnt and Venta. But there were none.

The storm had been a torture of delay. In my heart now I had no thought
that we would be able to locate Jahnt and Venta. I could only hope that
they might be in the broken city. Had Curtmann received news of the
Venus weapons? My mind was upon Venta, but still I could envisage that
bloodthirsty band of Earth cutthroats advancing upon the Forest City.

"I say, is it much further?" Jim demanded suddenly of Meeta. "This is
tough going for us."

"Master, no. It is ahead, just down that slope."

The dim forest glade was descending into a great shallow area of
deeper shadow. And presently we could see the ruins of tumbled, broken
buildings lying here, half buried by the rank forest growth. In the
turgid dimness, with a faint orange luminosity that seemed inherent
to the great trees, it was an eerie place of colored shadows. Great
buildings were everywhere around us now, weird of shape and substance,
some of them still partly erect with the spindly trees growing through
them.

It was a place of the ghosts of Venus' past.

"It is down in here," Meeta said, pointing.

A littered rocky depression was before us. A ruined amphitheatre, with
its walls almost gone and the forest like a monstrous clump in its
middle. We descended into it. The ground in places was rocky. Some
natural cataclysm must have torn this ground since the original arena
was built.

Then we saw the cache of weapons. It was half a demolished room in some
broken structure that now was unrecognizable; an apartment partly open
at the top, of some two hundred feet diameter. A little light filtered
down from the lurid greenish-yellow storm-clouds high overhead.

"No one here ahead of us, Jim?" In the darkness, with Meeta perched
again upon my shoulder, we stood peering and listening. There was only
silence.

"Where are the weapons?" Jim demanded.

Meeta led us. "There in that little recess, Master. Many old broken
boxes are filled with them."

We stood before the rock-shelves, numbed with disappointment and
horror. The crumbling old metal boxes were here. But they were strewn
about; broken open; empty! The weapons were gone!

       *       *       *       *       *

"Gone!" Jim gasped. "That damned Jahnt!"

Abruptly Meeta cried, "Look! He is over there!"

With his hiding place discovered, Jahnt leaped suddenly erect from the
shadows of a rocky niche. A knife was in his hand. I was nearest to
him. I leaped. But I had miscalculated my abnormal heaviness. I hit
the rocks a few feet short of him, stumbled, almost went down. As my
arms flailed I saw him over me, his pointed face demoniac with lustful
triumph, his knife stabbing at my chest.

There was a whirring of wings, and a glistening body went past my head.
Meeta. The ten inches of her elfin form flapped and struck Jahnt in
the face. He hit wildly at her with his left hand, went off balance,
with his knife-thrust going wild; and collided against me so that I
was able to fling my arms around him. Then my left hand caught his
wrist, twisted and the knife fell away. We went down, locked together,
rolling. And suddenly I felt the knife hit my hand. Meeta with swift
agility had retrieved it and brought it to me. The lithe Jahnt, far
stronger than he looked, was momentarily on top of me. I seized the
knife, stabbed upward into his chest; and with a choked cry he went
limp, fell forward on me.

I scrambled to my feet. Jahnt wasn't quite dead, but obviously dying.
Jim and I bent over him.

"You got away with the weapons?" Jim muttered. "Or are they still
around here?"

"Curtmann has them. My little Midge flew to him, and came back with
some of Curtmann's men. They left just a little while ago. I--showed
them how to use the weapons. You will--be defeated by Curtmann. You
damned--"

Again little Meeta suddenly called us. "Here! Here is Venta!"

She was lying, bound and gagged, but unharmed in the recess of some
crags nearby. Jim and I rushed to her.

The three spacesuits were with her. Jim had gone back to the dying
Jahnt and he called me. Blood was gushing now from Jahnt's mouth; he
was gasping, but still he was trying ironically to smile.

"I--did not tell Curtmann's men that I had Venta. Why should I be
in the battle? I just thought I would stay here with Venta, and if
Curtmann won, then I would join him."

"Has he started from Shan?" Jim demanded.

"Oh--yes. He and his men must be half way to the Forest City by now. I
am sorry now I did not go with them."

I had a sudden thought. "Is he planning to use that spaceship of his?"

Jahnt was choking now with the blood in his throat. Then he gasped,
"No--his men said they--could not handle it--so close to the
ground--such a--short distance. They are on foot--in the forest--"

Venta was with us now, bending down over the dying Jahnt. His glazing
eyes saw her, and he murmured, "You--if you had loved me--this would
not have happened. I'm dying--you'll all die when--Curtmann uses those
weapons against you. I'm--glad of that--"

His body twitched. Horribly the blood rattled in his throat, choking
him; and then in another moment he was gone.

"They're half way to the Forest City," Jim muttered. "Good Lord, we've
got to stop them. But how? How can we do it, Art?"

Venta was standing apart from us, with the tiny Meeta on her shoulder.
They were murmuring together, and abruptly Meeta flew to me.

"She says it is right and it can be done. We Midges--serve the Gods,
and surely now we know the good Gods from the evil."

       *       *       *       *       *

An army of the Little People! Jim and I stood blankly listening while
Venta told us what she and Meeta had been planning. A myriad of Midges
could be rallied now. And they had human intelligence.... Only a foot
high, or less. But, especially the females, they could fly with the
agility of humming birds.

"And we can be armed," Meeta cried. She hummed away, came back in a
moment. In her tiny hand there was a thorn. It was no more than two
inches long, but to her it was a sword, stiff and sharp as a needle.

"The poisoned enta-thorn!" Venta exclaimed. "But I did not know that
any of the enta-shrub was near here."

"I found it," Meeta said proudly. "There is much of it."

"What's that noise?" Jim abruptly demanded.

With my nerves taut, I stood tense. A faint thrumming was audible. We
had left the cave where the weapons had been hidden, and were out in
the broken amphitheatre with the ruined ancient buildings like spectres
around us. Far overhead there was a little starlight, straggling
faintly down. The thrumming grew louder. A tiny blurred shape came down
through the darkness.... And then another--and another.

The Midges were arriving from Shan, expecting to carry the
Venus-weapons from here to the Forest City. In a moment a dozen were
here, then a hundred. They came in little groups, males and females,
keeping separate in the flight. Like huge insects they thrummed around
us, and then settled and stood awaiting our commands. Then Meeta was
among them, telling what had happened and explaining that they must
fight for the lives of the Forest City people.

For a moment there was awed silence; then a tiny blended chorus of
voices, and little shapes humming away to get the thorns.

Jim gripped me. "By the Lord, it's our only chance! You can see that,
Art."

"Yes. You and I in the spacesuits, if we can maneuver them. An army in
the air--the Midges and you and I to plan their battle--direct them."

"And I shall be with you," Venta cried.

Vaguely I had thought to leave her here, or send her off to the Forest
City on foot. She persuaded me at last.

"You talk of planning the battle," she cried. "But almost none of the
Midges speak your language. I shall give your commands to them."

Once we had decided, a desperate haste was on us. Midges were arriving
here now from the Forest City. Some of them had seen the oncoming
columns of Curtmann's men, down in the forest. They were more than half
way from Shan. Occasionally their Earth-flash weapons would stab into
the forest ahead of them.

Within ten minutes or so we were ready. I had sent a few of the
swiftest-flying Midges back to the Forest City to tell Prytan what had
happened. His young men were to arm themselves as best they could,
and take position. In a ring around the city, prepared to make a last
stand, if we should fail. All the Midges now in the Forest City were
to arm themselves with the poisoned thorns, and come to join us in the
battle as fast as they could.

Then Venta, Jim and I had donned the spacesuits. No need to inflate
them now; we only needed the anti-gravity mechanisms, and the
rocket-streams for balancing and for lateral movement.

We rose presently into the air, up into the starlight with the ruined
piles of the broken buildings and the forest dropping away beneath
us. At five hundred feet we poised. In thrumming groups the Midges,
more than two thousand of them now, circled around us. Then, with Jim,
Venta and me leading, our bodies in the baggy spacesuits poised almost
horizontal in the air and the Midges strung out in long thin lines like
insects behind us, we plunged forward to the battle.


                                   V

"There they are!" Jim called.

Five hundred feet below us the forest tree-tops were a fantastic matted
mass of vivid vegetation. And suddenly, down in a glade, the line of
Curtmann's men was visible. More than I had thought--there seemed a
full four hundred of them. In two columns they plodded slowly forward.
With them was a great wheeled cart, like a clumsy barge. Evidently
Curtmann had built it in Shan. It toiled forward, with the marching
men in advance of it and behind it. We could see that it was drawn by
harnessed lines of Midges--hundreds of the tiny figures plodding on
the ground, bending hunched as they pulled the huge creaking vehicle.
The top of the cart was uncovered and a dozen men were riding in it.
Groups of them were seated, around a little raised platform on which
was mounted what seemed a huge projector.

"Keep the Midges high," I called to Venta who was near me. "Wait until
I give the signal."

Our Midges were circling, wildly excited now that the enemy was in
sight beneath them. Jim and I had discussed our tactics. In groups
of about a hundred we would send the Midges plummeting down. Each
would try to stab one of Curtmann's men and then come up again. The
enta-poison, Venta had told us, was deadly--sure death if enough of it
got into the blood-stream. But it did not act at once; five minutes or
more was necessary before the victim would feel its lethal effect.

We made a great sweeping half-circle, plunging down as though to attack
and leveling at above two hundred feet. As we passed over the lines of
watching men and the cart, two or three bolts stabbed up, fell short.
Then a man's voice roared orders to withhold the fire.

Curtmann. As we passed at the lower altitude over the cart I saw him
standing on a raised platform near its front. We swept past, and up
again.

"We better swoop now," Jim urged. "This is as good a place to attack as
any we'll ever get."

That was obvious. The lines of men were in an open glade. A few hundred
feet ahead of them, the forest was dense again. It would be far more
difficult for our Midges to swoop down and attack amid the enveloping
lacery of vegetation.

And Curtmann, even though probably he had not as yet the least fear
of us, already was starting to advance again. The men in front were
marching on. Orders were being roared at the harnessed Midges. The cart
went into motion. And the Forest City certainly was no more than a few
miles ahead. Curtmann's murderous band would be there in an hour or two.

But still I hesitated to give the signal.

Little Meeta hovered before me. "The Master-God will order us down
now?" she pleaded. "We will serve you well."

My heart was pounding. I nodded, with a lump in my throat that choked
my voice as I shouted the signal sending so many of them to die.

       *       *       *       *       *

A designated quarter of them swooped down. From up at this height,
Venta, Jim and I hovered, with the rest of the Midges in a gathered
group around us. All of us staring down.

The cloud of some five hundred Midges swooped, circled, and then
plummeted. For a second or two the startled Curtmann men merely seemed
to stare upward. Then the Midges were upon them, fluttering into their
faces, jabbing at them. The men's arms wildly failed to fend off the
viciously attacking little bodies.

Some of the Midges were caught, bashed into pulp and hurled away with
a single flailing blow. Some were caught in huge hands, squeezed to
death and flung to the ground. The oaths of the startled men came up,
mingled with the cries of the Midges, then the tiny fluttering shapes
were rising again. A shot stabbed at them, its crackling bolt stabbing
through a group of them. It was like a monstrous blow-torch stabbing
into fluttering moths. It left a trail of wisps of light as their
bodies were consumed.

The rest of them came up and joined us, panting, flopping.

"Good enough," Jim murmured. "Five minutes more and we'll see what
really happened."

But I was cold inside. No more than half the Midges had come back. Two
hundred or more of them gone already. And here in the air, some of
them, wounded, were bravely struggling not to fall.

The men and the huge cart down in the glade had started forward again.
Suddenly it was apparent that the harnessed lines of Midges on the
ground were in revolt. They milled in confusion, struggling to cast off
the lines that held them. We heard Curtmann roaring threats at them.
And then he fired a bolt horizontally through them. It cut a ghastly
swath; a burst of trailing little wisps of fire. Beside me, Venta
gasped in horror; and Jim murmured,

"Fool! With what's left of those Midges that heavy cart will never move
again."

The cart had stopped. Curtmann, doubtless regretting his shot of
exasperation, was roaring more orders. The straggling columns of his
men came toward the cart, and all of them bunched around it in a solid
group, out there in the center of the open glade.

"Got them stalled," Jim said grimly. "Much better for us."

If the poison would work. But would it? At three hundred feet we were
still circling in great humming sweeps while again I withheld my
signal. Did I dare send the Midges down for a general attack? Every
shot cut them so horribly into nothingness. Off to the side, in the
direction of the Forest City, other Midges were appearing now. Little
groups of them, males and females, humming toward us, joining our
circling ranks. Reinforcements. In a minute or two it seemed that a new
thousand were here to swell our weird little army.

"Look!" Jim suddenly cried triumphantly. "The enta-poison!"

Up to now, in these tentative exchanges, Curtmann and his men doubtless
had contemptuously figured that this engagement was harassing, but
certainly nothing worse. Some of his men had been stabbed by little
thorns. What of it? But down there now a new confusion was apparent.
One of his men on the ground beside the cart suddenly staggered and
fell. Then another. In the cart a group of them called with startled
questions. Two of them by the big projector abruptly slumped in their
seats with their fellows bending anxiously over them.

A moment of startled confusion. A dozen stricken men. And then others.
What was happening must have dawned on Curtmann. In the starlit dimness
down there on the cart we saw the blob of his figure leap erect.

And then Curtmann, at last realizing the deadliness of this menace,
went into action! From the cart there was a little puff, with the
hissing, popping sound of it coming up to us a few seconds later. A
small round blob rose toward us, went harmlessly through us and burst
up in the starlight. An electrolite-flare. It glared with a lurid,
prismatic splash of color in the sky, illumined brightly the tiny
flying dots of our Midges.

Just that few seconds and then the great projector hurled its missile
at us--a blob coming slowly up in an arc. The blob burst. It seemed as
though suddenly there was an earthquake in the air-split columns of
air rushing together with a deafening thunderclap. The air rocked me,
hurled me sidewise; the brief roar was deafening.

"A thunder-thrower!" Venta gasped as she clung to me.

In the cataclysm of air the cloud of Midges was hurled into chaos,
their bodies knocked together, whirling end over end, some of them
dropping with broken wings.

Just a few seconds, and now the blue-white starlit night had been
transformed into a chaos of glaring light and roaring, clapping sound.
Flares were bursting everywhere; the cracking thunderclaps came one
upon the other in a chaos of prismatic horror. Curtmann's hand-flashes
were stabbing recklessly up through it. One of longer range burned a
wide swath with the bodies of Midges bursting into a myriad pin-points
of light.

In the rocking turmoil I heard Jim shouting, "Good God, we can't stay
up here!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Half our Midges already were gone! Everywhere little broken dots were
drifting or falling down.

"Down!" I shouted. "Venta--Meeta--tell them! Everyone down. Don't come
back up--everyone for himself, now!"

[Illustration: _Downward plunged the weird armada._]

In the roaring chaos of pyrotechnic glare what was left of our Midges
swooped to the attack. With the rocket-streams at last righting my
whirling body, head down I plummeted. The glare from above revealed
Curtmann's men far more plainly now. Everywhere the men were
staggering. In the cart some of them had fallen, but others were still
erect, frantically working the projectors and stabbing with the hand
heat-flashes. Our Midges were among them now, desperate fluttering
little figures, stabbing at their faces. On the ground some of the
staggering men were trying to get into the forest underbrush. I
plummeted toward a group of them.

I hit the ground in the midst of a staggering group, with a thump that
all but knocked the breath from me. Two of the men staggered at me. I
was unarmed. My fist knocked one down, and I gripped the other as he
half fell upon me. He was still clutching his flash-gun. I seized it,
knocked him away and rose again into the roaring tumult of the air.

"Art! You got a gun? So did I."

Jim was here with me; side by side we rose. I saw the cart directly
underneath me. His figure painted lurid, the desperate Curtmann was
still erect. Almost the last one now. And I saw that he was struggling
with a projector which had not yet been in use. A tiny figure flapped
against my face. Little Meeta. She gripped my shoulder, clung, and her
tiny voice gasped in my ear.

"That weapon Curtmann has--the big molecule-melter--very
long-range--the Forest City."

With a burst of numbing horror I understood it. This projector would
cut the forest and the ground into a leprous molten swath, out to the
Forest City itself.

I plummeted down, with Meeta still clinging desperately to my neck.
Curtmann saw me coming. With a wild oath he dropped the projector and
fired at me with a hand-flash. It missed. There was just a second
when I leveled off, heading horizontally at him. The glare was on
his sweat-bathed face, contorted with his lust; but I saw a look of
despairing terror there as my flash drilled him and he fell as I
swooped close over him.

We rose at last, high into the starlight. So pitifully few of us,
gathering in a little broken, circling group. Beneath us now there
was only a lurid red-yellow fire-pit of molten bubbling rocks where
the forest glade had been. Then the heavy turgid smoke and gas-fumes
settled upon it like a shroud.

Almost silently we struggled back through the starlight to the Forest
City. Jim and Venta and little Meeta were here with me, but our little
Midges were struggling to keep aloft. Dozens of them were clustering
upon Jim and Venta and me. Their tiny, gasping voices were horrible.
And we were the victors! It came to me then that surely whatever has
been said and written of the futility of human killing, can never
adequately picture it.

       *       *       *       *       *

I think that is all I need recount. You have all heard how we returned
to Earth, and the stir that my news brought. I should have been
considered a charlatan perhaps, with my wild tale. But there was the
spaceship; and Jim, Venta, and little Meeta. Scientists have inspected
Venta now. It was an ordeal. But mostly they have been interested in
Meeta.

That is passed. There are others on Venus like Venta, and others
like our little Midge. We are living now on Earth, with Jim near us.
Certainly neither here, nor on Venus, do we want any turmoil.

With Jim for my friend, and the adoration of little Meeta who thinks me
in very truth, a God--and the love of my dear wife--certainly I am a
mortal very singularly blessed.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Star-Master, by Ray Cummings

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR-MASTER ***

***** This file should be named 62170.txt or 62170.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/1/7/62170/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
