      “That Monsieur Dartie,” said Annette in the cab, “_je n’aime pas
      ce type-là!_”

      “No, by George!” said Soames.

      “Your sister is veree amiable, and the girl is pretty. Your
      father is veree old. I think your mother has trouble with him; I
      should not like to be her.”

      Soames nodded at the shrewdness, the clear hard judgment in his
      young wife; but it disquieted him a little. The thought may have
      just flashed through him, too: “When I’m eighty she’ll be
      fifty-five, having trouble with me!”

      “There’s just one other house of my relations I must take you
      to,” he said; “you’ll find it funny, but we must get it over; and
      then we’ll dine and go to the theatre.”

      In this way he prepared her for Timothy’s. But Timothy’s was
      different. They were _delighted_ to see dear Soames after this
      long long time; and so this was Annette!

      “You are _so_ pretty, my dear; almost too young and pretty for
      dear Soames, aren’t you? But he’s very attentive and careful—such
      a good hush....” Aunt Juley checked herself, and placed her lips
      just under each of Annette’s eyes—she afterwards described them
      to Francie, who dropped in, as: “Cornflower-blue, so pretty, I
      quite wanted to kiss them. I must say dear Soames is a perfect
      connoisseur. In her French way, and not so very French either, I
      think she’s as pretty—though not so distinguished, not so
      alluring—as Irene. Because she was alluring, wasn’t she? with
      that white skin and those dark eyes, and that hair, _couleur
      de_—what was it? I always forget.”

      “_Feuille morte_,” Francie prompted.

      “Of course, dead leaves—so strange. I remember when I was a girl,
      before we came to London, we had a foxhound puppy—to ‘walk’ it
      was called then; it had a tan top to its head and a white chest,
      and beautiful dark brown eyes, and it was a lady.”

      “Yes, auntie,” said Francie, “but I don’t see the connection.”

      “Oh!” replied Aunt Juley, rather flustered, “it was so alluring,
      and her eyes and hair, you know....” She was silent, as if
      surprised in some indelicacy. “_Feuille morte_,” she added
      suddenly; “Hester—do remember that!”....

      Considerable debate took place between the two sisters whether
      Timothy should or should not be summoned to see Annette.

      “Oh, don’t bother!” said Soames.

      “But it’s no trouble, only of course Annette’s being French might
      upset him a little. He was so scared about Fashoda. I think
      perhaps we had better not run the risk, Hester. It’s nice to have
      her all to ourselves, isn’t it? And how are you, Soames? Have you
      quite got over your....”

      Hester interposed hurriedly:

      “What do you think of London, Annette?”

      Soames, disquieted, awaited the reply. It came, sensible,
      composed: “Oh! I know London. I have visited before.”

      He had never ventured to speak to her on the subject of the
      restaurant. The French had different notions about gentility, and
      to shrink from connection with it might seem to her ridiculous;
      he had waited to be married before mentioning it; and now he
      wished he hadn’t.

      “And what part do you know best?” said Aunt Juley.

      “Soho,” said Annette simply.

      Soames snapped his jaw.

      “Soho?” repeated Aunt Juley; “Soho?”

      “That’ll go round the family,” thought Soames.

      “It’s very French, and interesting,” he said.

      “Yes,” murmured Aunt Juley, “your Uncle Roger had some houses
      there once; he was always having to turn the tenants out, I
      remember.”

      Soames changed the subject to Mapledurham.

      “Of course,” said Aunt Juley, “you will be going down there soon
      to settle in. We are all so looking forward to the time when
      Annette has a dear little....”

      “Juley!” cried Aunt Hester desperately, “ring tea!”

      Soames dared not wait for tea, and took Annette away.

      “I shouldn’t mention Soho if I were you,” he said in the cab.
      “It’s rather a shady part of London; and you’re altogether above
      that restaurant business now; I mean,” he added, “I want you to
      know nice people, and the English are fearful snobs.”

      Annette’s clear eyes opened; a little smile came on her lips.

      “Yes?” she said.

      “H’m!” thought Soames, “that’s meant for me!” and he looked at
      her hard. “She’s got good business instincts,” he thought. “I
      must make her grasp it once for all!”

      “Look here, Annette! it’s very simple, only it wants
      understanding. Our professional and leisured classes still think
      themselves a cut above our business classes, except of course the
      very rich. It may be stupid, but there it is, you see. It isn’t
      advisable in England to let people know that you ran a restaurant
      or kept a shop or were in any kind of trade. It may have been
      extremely creditable, but it puts a sort of label on you; you
      don’t have such a good time, or meet such nice people—that’s
      all.”

      “I see,” said Annette; “it is the same in France.”

      “Oh!” murmured Soames, at once relieved and taken aback. “Of
      course, class is everything, really.”

      “Yes,” said Annette; “_comme vous êtes sage_.”

      “That’s all right,” thought Soames, watching her lips, “only
      she’s pretty cynical.” His knowledge of French was not yet such
      as to make him grieve that she had not said “tu.” He slipped his
      arm round her, and murmured with an effort:

      “_Et vous êtes ma belle femme_.”

      Annette went off into a little fit of laughter.

      “_Oh, non!_” she said. “_Oh, non! ne parlez pas Français_,
      Soames. What is that old lady, your aunt, looking forward to?”

      Soames bit his lip. “God knows!” he said; “she’s always saying
      something;” but he knew better than God.




      CHAPTER XI SUSPENDED ANIMATION


      The war dragged on. Nicholas had been heard to say that it would
      cost three hundred millions if it cost a penny before they’d done
      with it! The income-tax was seriously threatened. Still, there
      would be South Africa for their money, once for all. And though
      the possessive instinct felt badly shaken at three o’clock in the
      morning, it recovered by breakfast-time with the recollection
      that one gets nothing in this world without paying for it. So, on
      the whole, people went about their business much as if there were
      no war, no concentration camps, no slippery de Wet, no feeling on
      the Continent, no anything unpleasant. Indeed, the attitude of
      the nation was typified by Timothy’s map, whose animation was
      suspended—for Timothy no longer moved the flags, and they could
      not move themselves, not even backwards and forwards as they
      should have done.

      Suspended animation went further; it invaded Forsyte ’Change, and
      produced a general uncertainty as to what was going to happen
      next. The announcement in the marriage column of _The Times_,
      “Jolyon Forsyte to Irene, only daughter of the late Professor
      Heron,” had occasioned doubt whether Irene had been justly
      described. And yet, on the whole, relief was felt that she had
      not been entered as “Irene, late the wife,” or “the divorced
      wife,” “of Soames Forsyte.” Altogether, there had been a kind of
      sublimity from the first about the way the family had taken that
      “affair.” As James had phrased it, “There it was!” No use to
      fuss! Nothing to be had out of admitting that it had been a
      “nasty jar”—in the phraseology of the day.

      But what would happen now that both Soames and Jolyon were
      married again? That was very intriguing. George was known to have
      laid Eustace six to four on a little Jolyon before a little
      Soames. George was so droll! It was rumoured, too, that he and
      Dartie had a bet as to whether James would attain the age of
      ninety, though which of them had backed James no one knew.

      Early in May, Winifred came round to say that Val had been
      wounded in the leg by a spent bullet, and was to be discharged.
      His wife was nursing him. He would have a little limp—nothing to
      speak of. He wanted his grandfather to buy him a farm out there
      where he could breed horses. Her father was giving Holly eight
      hundred a year, so they could be quite comfortable, because his
      grandfather would give Val five, he had said; but as to the farm,
      he didn’t know—couldn’t tell: he didn’t want Val to go throwing
      away his money.

      “But you know,” said Winifred, “he must do something.”

      Aunt Hester thought that perhaps his dear grandfather was wise,
      because if he didn’t buy a farm it couldn’t turn out badly.

      “But Val loves horses,” said Winifred. “It’d be such an
      occupation for him.”

      Aunt Juley thought that horses were very uncertain, had not
      Montague found them so?

      “Val’s different,” said Winifred; “he takes after me.”

      Aunt Juley was sure that dear Val was very clever. “I always
      remember,” she added, “how he gave his bad penny to a beggar. His
      dear grandfather was so pleased. He thought it showed such
      presence of mind. I remember his saying that he ought to go into
      the Navy.”

      Aunt Hester chimed in: Did not Winifred think that it was much
      better for the young people to be secure and not run any risk at
      their age?

      “Well,” said Winifred, “if they were in London, perhaps; in
      London it’s amusing to do nothing. But out there, of course,
      he’ll simply get bored to death.”

      Aunt Hester thought that it would be nice for him to work, if he
      were quite sure not to lose by it. It was not as if they had no
      money. Timothy, of course, had done so well by retiring. Aunt
      Juley wanted to know what Montague had said.

      Winifred did not tell her, for Montague had merely remarked:
      “Wait till the old man dies.”

      At this moment Francie was announced. Her eyes were brimming with
      a smile.

      “Well,” she said, “what do you think of it?”

      “Of what, dear?”

      “In _The Times_ this morning.”

      “We haven’t seen it, we always read it after dinner; Timothy has
      it till then.”

      Francie rolled her eyes.

      “Do you think you _ought_ to tell us?” said Aunt Juley. “What
      _was_ it?”

      “Irene’s had a son at Robin Hill.”

      Aunt Juley drew in her breath. “But,” she said, “they were only
      married in March!”

      “Yes, Auntie; isn’t it interesting?”

      “Well,” said Winifred, “I’m glad. I was sorry for Jolyon losing
      his boy. It might have been Val.”

      Aunt Juley seemed to go into a sort of dream. “I wonder,” she
      murmured, “what dear Soames will think? He has so wanted to have
      a son himself. A little bird has always told me that.”

      “Well,” said Winifred, “he’s going to—bar accidents.”

      Gladness trickled out of Aunt Juley’s eyes.

      “How delightful!” she said. “When?”

      “November.”

      Such a lucky month! But she did wish it could be sooner. It was a
      long time for James to wait, at his age!

      To wait! They dreaded it for James, but they were used to it
      themselves. Indeed, it was their great distraction. To wait! For
      _The Times_ to read; for one or other of their nieces or nephews
      to come in and cheer them up; for news of Nicholas’ health; for
      that decision of Christopher’s about going on the stage; for
      information concerning the mine of Mrs. MacAnder’s nephew; for
      the doctor to come about Hester’s inclination to wake up early in
      the morning; for books from the library which were always out;
      for Timothy to have a cold; for a nice quiet warm day, not too
      hot, when they could take a turn in Kensington Gardens. To wait,
      one on each side of the hearth in the drawing-room, for the clock
      between them to strike; their thin, veined, knuckled hands plying
      knitting-needles and crochet-hooks, their hair ordered to
      stop—like Canute’s waves—from any further advance in colour. To
      wait in their black silks or satins for the Court to say that
      Hester might wear her dark green, and Juley her darker maroon. To
      wait, slowly turning over and over, in their old minds the little
      joys and sorrows, events and expectancies, of their little family
      world, as cows chew patient cuds in a familiar field. And this
      new event was so well worth waiting for. Soames had always been
      their pet, with his tendency to give them pictures, and his
      almost weekly visits which they missed so much, and his need for
      their sympathy evoked by the wreck of his first marriage. This
      new event—the birth of an heir to Soames—was so important for
      him, and for his dear father, too, that James might not have to
      die without some certainty about things. James did so dislike
      uncertainty; and with Montague, of course, he could not feel
      really satisfied to leave no grand-children but the young
      Darties. After all, one’s own name did count! And as James’
      ninetieth birthday neared they wondered what precautions he was
      taking. He would be the first of the Forsytes to reach that age,
      and set, as it were, a new standard in holding on to life. That
      was so important, they felt, at their ages eighty-seven and
      eighty-five; though they did not want to think of themselves when
      they had Timothy, who was not yet eighty-two, to think of. There
      was, of course, a better world. “In my Father’s house are many
      mansions” was one of Aunt Juley’s favourite sayings—it always
      comforted her, with its suggestion of house property, which had
      made the fortune of dear Roger. The Bible was, indeed, a great
      resource, and on _very_ fine Sundays there was church in the
      morning; and sometimes Juley would steal into Timothy’s study
      when she was sure he was out, and just put an open New Testament
      casually among the books on his little table—he was a great
      reader, of course, having been a publisher. But she had noticed
      that Timothy was always cross at dinner afterwards. And Smither
      had told her more than once that she had picked books off the
      floor in doing the room. Still, with all that, they did feel that
      heaven could not be quite so cosy as the rooms in which they and
      Timothy had been waiting so long. Aunt Hester, especially, could
      not bear the thought of the exertion. Any change, or rather the
      thought of a change—for there never _was_ any—always upset her
      very much. Aunt Juley, who had more spirit, sometimes thought it
      would be quite exciting; she had so enjoyed that visit to
      Brighton the year dear Susan died. But then Brighton one knew was
      nice, and it was so difficult to tell what heaven would be like,
      so on the whole she was more than content to wait.

      On the morning of James’ birthday, August the 5th, they felt
      extraordinary animation, and little notes passed between them by
      the hand of Smither while they were having breakfast in their
      beds. Smither must go round and take their love and little
      presents and find out how Mr. James was, and whether he had
      passed a good night with all the excitement. And on the way back
      would Smither call in at Green Street—it was a little out of her
      way, but she could take the bus up Bond Street afterwards; it
      would be a nice little change for her—and ask dear Mrs. Dartie to
      be sure and look in before she went out of town.

      All this Smither did—an undeniable servant trained many years ago
      under Aunt Ann to a perfection not now procurable. Mr. James, so
      Mrs. James said, had passed an excellent night, he sent his love;
      Mrs. James had said he was very funny and had complained that he
      didn’t know what all the fuss was about. Oh! and Mrs. Dartie sent
      her love, and she would come to tea.

      Aunts Juley and Hester, rather hurt that their presents had not
      received special mention—they forgot every year that James could
      not bear to receive presents, “throwing away their money on him,”
      as he always called it—were “delighted”; it showed that James was
      in good spirits, and that was so important for him. And they
      began to wait for Winifred. She came at four, bringing Imogen,
      and Maud, just back from school, and “getting such a pretty girl,
      too,” so that it was extremely difficult to ask for news about
      Annette. Aunt Juley, however, summoned courage to enquire whether
      Winifred had heard anything, and if Soames was anxious.

      “Uncle Soames is always anxious, Auntie,” interrupted Imogen; “he
      can’t be happy now he’s got it.”

      The words struck familiarly on Aunt Juley’s ears. Ah! yes; that
      funny drawing of George’s, which had _not_ been shown them! But
      what did Imogen mean? That her uncle always wanted more than he
      could have? It was not at all nice to think like that.

      Imogen’s voice rose clear and clipped:

      “Imagine! Annette’s only two years older than me; it must be
      awful for her, married to Uncle Soames.”

      Aunt Juley lifted her hands in horror.

      “My dear,” she said, “you don’t know what you’re talking about.
      Your Uncle Soames is a match for anybody. He’s a very clever man,
      and good-looking and wealthy, and most considerate and careful,
      and not at all old, considering everything.”

      Imogen, turning her luscious glance from one to the other of the
      “old dears,” only smiled.

      “I hope,” said Aunt Juley quite severely, “that _you_ will marry
      as good a man.”

      “_I_ shan’t marry a good man, Auntie,” murmured Imogen; “they’re
      dull.”

      “If you go on like this,” replied Aunt Juley, still very much
      upset, “you won’t marry anybody. We’d better not pursue the
      subject;” and turning to Winifred, she said: “How is Montague?”

      That evening, while they were waiting for dinner, she murmured:

      “I’ve told Smither to get up half a bottle of the sweet
      champagne, Hester. I think we ought to drink dear James’ health,
      and—and the health of Soames’ wife; only, let’s keep that quite
      secret. I’ll just say like this, ‘And _you know_, Hester!’ and
      then we’ll drink. It might upset Timothy.”

      “It’s more likely to upset us,” said Aunt Nester. “But we must, I
      suppose; for such an occasion.”

      “Yes,” said Aunt Juley rapturously, “it _is_ an occasion! Only
      fancy if he has a dear little boy, to carry the family on! I do
      feel it so important, now that Irene has had a son. Winifred says
      George is calling Jolyon ‘The Three-Decker,’ because of his three
      families, you know! George _is_ droll. And fancy! Irene is living
      after all in the house Soames had built for them both. It does
      seem hard on dear Soames; and he’s always been so regular.”

      That night in bed, excited and a little flushed still by her
      glass of wine and the secrecy of the second toast, she lay with
      her prayer-book opened flat, and her eyes fixed on a ceiling
      yellowed by the light from her reading-lamp. Young things! It was
      so nice for them all! And she would be so happy if she could see
      dear Soames happy. But, of course, he must be now, in spite of
      what Imogen had said. He would have all that he wanted: property,
      and wife, and children! And he would live to a green old age,
      like his dear father, and forget all about Irene and that
      dreadful case. If only she herself could be here to buy his
      children their first rocking-horse! Smither should choose it for
      her at the stores, nice and dappled. Ah! how Roger used to rock
      her until she fell off! Oh dear! that was a long time ago! It
      _was!_ “In my Father’s house are many mansions—”A little
      scrattling noise caught her ear—“but no mice!” she thought
      mechanically. The noise increased. There! it _was_ a mouse! How
      naughty of Smither to say there wasn’t! It would be eating
      through the wainscot before they knew where they were, and they
      would have to have the builders in. They were such destructive
      things! And she lay, with her eyes just moving, following in her
      mind that little scrattling sound, and waiting for sleep to
      release her from it.




      CHAPTER XII BIRTH OF A FORSYTE


      Soames walked out of the garden door, crossed the lawn, stood on
      the path above the river, turned round and walked back to the
      garden door, without having realised that he had moved. The sound
      of wheels crunching the drive convinced him that time had passed,
      and the doctor gone. What, exactly, had he said?

      “This is the position, Mr. Forsyte. I can make pretty certain of
      her life if I operate, but the baby will be born dead. If I don’t
      operate, the baby will most probably be born alive, but it’s a
      great risk for the mother—a great risk. In either case I don’t
      think she can ever have another child. In her state she obviously
      can’t decide for herself, and we can’t wait for her mother. It’s
      for you to make the decision, while I’m getting what’s necessary.
      I shall be back within the hour.”

      The decision! What a decision! No time to get a specialist down!
      No time for anything!

      The sound of wheels died away, but Soames still stood intent;
      then, suddenly covering his ears, he walked back to the river. To
      come before its time like this, with no chance to foresee
      anything, not even to get her mother here! It was for her mother
      to make that decision, and she couldn’t arrive from Paris till
      to-night! If only he could have understood the doctor’s jargon,
      the medical niceties, so as to be sure he was weighing the
      chances properly; but they were Greek to him—like a legal problem
      to a layman. And yet he _must_ decide! He brought his hand away
      from his brow wet, though the air was chilly. These sounds which
      came from her room! To go back there would only make it more
      difficult. He must be calm, clear. On the one hand life, nearly
      certain, of his young wife, death quite certain, of his child;
      and—no more children afterwards! On the other, death _perhaps_ of
      his wife, nearly certain life for the child; and—no more children
      afterwards! Which to choose?.... It had rained this last
      fortnight—the river was very full, and in the water, collected
      round the little house-boat moored by his landing-stage, were
      many leaves from the woods above, brought off by a frost. Leaves
      fell, lives drifted down—Death! To decide about death! And no one
      to give him a hand. Life lost was lost for good. Let nothing go
      that you could keep; for, if it went, you couldn’t get it back.
      It left you bare, like those trees when they lost their leaves;
      barer and barer until you, too, withered and came down. And, by a
      queer somersault of thought, he seemed to see not Annette lying
      up there behind that window-pane on which the sun was shining,
      but Irene lying in their bedroom in Montpellier Square, as it
      might conceivably have been her fate to lie, sixteen years ago.
      Would he have hesitated then? Not a moment! Operate, operate!
      Make certain of her life! No decision—a mere instinctive cry for
      help, in spite of his knowledge, even then, that she did not love
      him! But this! Ah! there was nothing overmastering in his feeling
      for Annette! Many times these last months, especially since she
      had been growing frightened, he had wondered. She had a will of
      her own, was selfish in her French way. And yet—so pretty! What
      would she wish—to take the risk. “I know she wants the child,” he
      thought. “If it’s born dead, and no more chance afterwards—it’ll
      upset her terribly. No more chance! All for nothing! Married life
      with her for years and years without a child. Nothing to steady
      her! She’s too young. Nothing to look forward to, for her—for me!
      _For me!_” He struck his hands against his chest! Why couldn’t he
      think without bringing himself in—get out of himself and see what
      he ought to do? The thought hurt him, then lost edge, as if it
      had come in contact with a breastplate. Out of oneself!
      Impossible! Out into soundless, scentless, touchless, sightless
      space! The very idea was ghastly, futile! And touching there the
      bedrock of reality, the bottom of his Forsyte spirit, Soames
      rested for a moment. When one ceased, all ceased; it might go on,
      but there’d be nothing in it!

      He looked at his watch. In half an hour the doctor would be back.
      He _must_ decide! If against the operation and she died, how face
      her mother and the doctor afterwards? How face his own
      conscience? It was _his_ child that she was having. If for the
      operation—then he condemned them both to childlessness. And for
      what else had he married her but to have a lawful heir? And his
      father—at death’s door, waiting for the news! “It’s cruel!” he
      thought; “I ought never to have such a thing to settle! It’s
      cruel!” He turned towards the house. Some deep, simple way of
      deciding! He took out a coin, and put it back. If he spun it, he
      knew he would not abide by what came up! He went into the
      dining-room, furthest away from that room whence the sounds
      issued. The doctor had said there was a chance. In here that
      chance seemed greater; the river did not flow, nor the leaves
      fall. A fire was burning. Soames unlocked the tantalus. He hardly
      ever touched spirits, but now—he poured himself out some whisky
      and drank it neat, craving a faster flow of blood. “That fellow
      Jolyon,” he thought; “he had children already. He has the woman I
      really loved; and now a son by her! And I—I’m asked to destroy my
      only child! Annette _can’t_ die; it’s not possible. She’s
      strong!”

      He was still standing sullenly at the sideboard when he heard the
      doctor’s carriage, and went out to him. He had to wait for him to
      come downstairs.

      “Well, doctor?”

      “The situation’s the same. Have you decided?”

      “Yes,” said Soames; “don’t operate!”

      “Not? You understand—the risk’s great?”

      In Soames’ set face nothing moved but the lips.

      “You said there was a chance?”

      “A chance, yes; not much of one.”

      “You say the baby _must_ be born dead if you do?”

      “Yes.”

      “Do you still think that in any case she can’t have another?”

      “One can’t be absolutely sure, but it’s most unlikely.”

      “She’s strong,” said Soames; “we’ll take the risk.”

      The doctor looked at him very gravely. “It’s on your shoulders,”
      he said; “with my own wife, I couldn’t.”

      Soames’ chin jerked up as if someone had hit him.

      “Am I of any use up there?” he asked.

      “No; keep away.”

      “I shall be in my picture-gallery, then; you know where.”

      The doctor nodded, and went upstairs.

      Soames continued to stand, listening. “By this time to-morrow,”
      he thought, “I may have her death on my hands.” No! it was
      unfair—monstrous, to put it that way! Sullenness dropped on him
      again, and he went up to the gallery. He stood at the window. The
      wind was in the north; it was cold, clear; very blue sky, heavy
      ragged white clouds chasing across; the river blue, too, through
      the screen of goldening trees; the woods all rich with colour,
      glowing, burnished—an early autumn. If it were his own life,
      would he be taking that risk? “But _she’d_ take the risk of
      losing me,” he thought, “sooner than lose her child! She doesn’t
      really love me!” What could one expect—a girl and French? The one
      thing really vital to them both, vital to their marriage and
      their futures, was a child! “I’ve been through a lot for this,”
      he thought, “I’ll hold on—hold on. There’s a chance of keeping
      both—a chance!” One kept till things were taken—one naturally
      kept! He began walking round the gallery. He had made one
      purchase lately which he knew was a fortune in itself, and he
      halted before it—a girl with dull gold hair which looked like
      filaments of metal gazing at a little golden monster she was
      holding in her hand. Even at this tortured moment he could just
      feel the extraordinary nature of the bargain he had made—admire
      the quality of the table, the floor, the chair, the girl’s
      figure, the absorbed expression on her face, the dull gold
      filaments of her hair, the bright gold of the little monster.
      Collecting pictures; growing richer, richer! What use, if...! He
      turned his back abruptly on the picture, and went to the window.
      Some of his doves had flown up from their perches round the
      dovecot, and were stretching their wings in the wind. In the
      clear sharp sunlight their whiteness almost flashed. They flew
      far, making a flung-up hieroglyphic against the sky. Annette fed
      the doves; it was pretty to see her. They took it out of her
      hand; they knew she was matter-of-fact. A choking sensation came
      into his throat. She would not—could not die! She was too—too
      sensible; and she was strong, really strong, like her mother, in
      spite of her fair prettiness.

      It was already growing dark when at last he opened the door, and
      stood listening. Not a sound! A milky twilight crept about the
      stairway and the landings below. He had turned back when a sound
      caught his ear. Peering down, he saw a black shape moving, and
      his heart stood still. What was it? Death? The shape of Death
      coming from her door? No! only a maid without cap or apron. She
      came to the foot of his flight of stairs and said breathlessly:

      “The doctor wants to see you, sir.”

      He ran down. She stood flat against the wall to let him pass, and
      said:

      “Oh, Sir! it’s over.”

      “Over?” said Soames, with a sort of menace; “what d’you mean?”

      “It’s born, sir.”

      He dashed up the four steps in front of him, and came suddenly on
      the doctor in the dim passage. The man was wiping his brow.

      “Well?” he said; “quick!”

      “Both living; it’s all right, I think.”

      Soames stood quite still, covering his eyes.

      “I congratulate you,” he heard the doctor say; “it was touch and
      go.”

      Soames let fall the hand which was covering his face.

      “Thanks,” he said; “thanks very much. What is it?”

      “Daughter—luckily; a son would have killed her—the head.”

      A daughter!

      “The utmost care of both,” he hears the doctor say, “and we shall
      do. When does the mother come?”

      “To-night, between nine and ten, I hope.”

      “I’ll stay till then. Do you want to see them?”

      “Not now,” said Soames; “before you go. I’ll have dinner sent up
      to you.” And he went downstairs.

      Relief unspeakable, and yet—a daughter! It seemed to him unfair.
      To have taken that risk—to have been through this agony—and what
      agony!—for a daughter! He stood before the blazing fire of wood
      logs in the hall, touching it with his toe and trying to readjust
      himself. “My father!” he thought. A bitter disappointment, no
      disguising it! One never got all one wanted in this life! And
      there was no other—at least, if there was, it was no use!

      While he was standing there, a telegram was brought him.

      “Come up at once, your father sinking fast.—MOTHER.”

      He read it with a choking sensation. One would have thought he
      couldn’t feel anything after these last hours, but he felt this.
      Half-past seven, a train from Reading at nine, and madame’s
      train, if she had caught it, came in at eight-forty—he would meet
      that, and go on. He ordered the carriage, ate some dinner
      mechanically, and went upstairs. The doctor came out to him.

      “They’re sleeping.”

      “I won’t go in,” said Soames with relief. “My father’s dying; I
      have to—go up. Is it all right?”

      The doctor’s face expressed a kind of doubting admiration. “If
      they were all as unemotional” he might have been saying.

      “Yes, I think you may go with an easy mind. You’ll be down soon?”

      “To-morrow,” said Soames. “Here’s the address.”

      The doctor seemed to hover on the verge of sympathy.

      “Good-night!” said Soames abruptly, and turned away. He put on
      his fur coat. Death! It was a chilly business. He smoked a
      cigarette in the carriage—one of his rare cigarettes. The night
      was windy and flew on black wings; the carriage lights had to
      search out the way. His father! That old, old man! A comfortless
      night—to die!

      The London train came in just as he reached the station, and
      Madame Lamotte, substantial, dark-clothed, very yellow in the
      lamplight, came towards the exit with a dressing-bag.

      “This all you have?” asked Soames.

      “But yes; I had not the time. How is my little one?”

      “Doing well—both. A girl!”

      “A girl! What joy! I had a frightful crossing!”

      Her black bulk, solid, unreduced by the frightful crossing,
      climbed into the brougham.

      “And you, _mon cher?_”

      “My father’s dying,” said Soames between his teeth. “I’m going
      up. Give my love to Annette.”

      “_Tiens!_” murmured Madame Lamotte; “_quel malheur!_”

      Soames took his hat off, and moved towards his train. “The
      French!” he thought.




      CHAPTER XIII JAMES IS TOLD


      A simple cold, caught in the room with double windows, where the
      air and the people who saw him were filtered, as it were, the
      room he had not left since the middle of September—and James was
      in deep waters. A little cold, passing his little strength and
      flying quickly to his lungs. “He mustn’t catch cold,” the doctor
      had declared, and he had gone and caught it. When he first felt
      it in his throat he had said to his nurse—for he had one
      now—“There, I knew how it would be, airing the room like that!”
      For a whole day he was highly nervous about himself and went in
      advance of all precautions and remedies; drawing every breath
      with extreme care and having his temperature taken every hour.
      Emily was not alarmed.

      But next morning when she went in the nurse whispered: “He won’t
      have his temperature taken.”

      Emily crossed to the side of the bed where he was lying, and said
      softly, “How do you feel, James?” holding the thermometer to his
      lips. James looked up at her.

      “What’s the good of that?” he murmured huskily; “I don’t want to
      know.”

      Then she _was_ alarmed. He breathed with difficulty, he looked
      terribly frail, white, with faint red discolorations. She had
      “had trouble” with him, Goodness knew; but he was James, had been
      James for nearly fifty years; she couldn’t remember or imagine
      life without James—James, behind all his fussiness, his
      pessimism, his crusty shell, deeply affectionate, really kind and
      generous to them all!

      All that day and the next he hardly uttered a word, but there was
      in his eyes a noticing of everything done for him, a look on his
      face which told her he was fighting; and she did not lose hope.
      His very stillness, the way he conserved every little scrap of
      energy, showed the tenacity with which he was fighting. It
      touched her deeply; and though her face was composed and
      comfortable in the sick-room, tears ran down her cheeks when she
      was out of it.

      About tea-time on the third day—she had just changed her dress,
      keeping her appearance so as not to alarm him, because he noticed
      everything—she saw a difference. “It’s no use; I’m tired,” was
      written plainly across that white face, and when she went up to
      him, he muttered: “Send for Soames.”

      “Yes, James,” she said comfortably; “all right—at once.” And she
      kissed his forehead. A tear dropped there, and as she wiped it
      off she saw that his eyes looked grateful. Much upset, and
      without hope now, she sent Soames the telegram.

      When he entered out of the black windy night, the big house was
      still as a grave. Warmson’s broad face looked almost narrow; he
      took the fur coat with a sort of added care, saying:

      “Will you have a glass of wine, sir?”

      Soames shook his head, and his eyebrows made enquiry.

      Warmson’s lips twitched. “He’s asking for you, sir;” and suddenly
      he blew his nose. “It’s a long time, sir,” he said, “that I’ve
      been with Mr. Forsyte—a long time.”

      Soames left him folding the coat, and began to mount the stairs.
      This house, where he had been born and sheltered, had never
      seemed to him so warm, and rich, and cosy, as during this last
      pilgrimage to his father’s room. It was not his taste; but in its
      own substantial, lincrusta way it was the acme of comfort and
      security. And the night was so dark and windy; the grave so cold
      and lonely!

      He paused outside the door. No sound came from within. He turned
      the handle softly and was in the room before he was perceived.
      The light was shaded. His mother and Winifred were sitting on the
      far side of the bed; the nurse was moving away from the near side
      where was an empty chair. “For me!” thought Soames. As he moved
      from the door his mother and sister rose, but he signed with his
      hand and they sat down again. He went up to the chair and stood
      looking at his father. James’ breathing was as if strangled; his
      eyes were closed. And in Soames, looking on his father so worn
      and white and wasted, listening to his strangled breathing, there
      rose a passionate vehemence of anger against Nature, cruel,
      inexorable Nature, kneeling on the chest of that wisp of a body,
      slowly pressing out the breath, pressing out the life of the
      being who was dearest to him in the world. His father, of all
      men, had lived a careful life, moderate, abstemious, and this was
      his reward—to have life slowly, painfully squeezed out of him!
      And, without knowing that he spoke, he said: “It’s cruel!”

      He saw his mother cover her eyes and Winifred bow her face
      towards the bed. Women! They put up with things so much better
      than men. He took a step nearer to his father. For three days
      James had not been shaved, and his lips and chin were covered
      with hair, hardly more snowy than his forehead. It softened his
      face, gave it a queer look already not of this world. His eyes
      opened. Soames went quite close and bent over. The lips moved.

      “Here I am, Father:”

      “Um—what—what news? They never tell....” the voice died, and a
      flood of emotion made Soames’ face work so that he could not
      speak. Tell him?—yes. But what? He made a great effort, got his
      lips together, and said:

      “Good news, dear, good—Annette, a son.”

      “Ah!” It was the queerest sound, ugly, relieved, pitiful,
      triumphant—like the noise a baby makes getting what it wants. The
      eyes closed, and that strangled sound of breathing began again.
      Soames recoiled to the chair and stonily sat down. The lie he had
      told, based, as it were, on some deep, temperamental instinct
      that after death James would not know the truth, had taken away
      all power of feeling for the moment. His arm brushed against
      something. It was his father’s naked foot. In the struggle to
      breathe he had pushed it out from under the clothes. Soames took
      it in his hand, a cold foot, light and thin, white, very cold.
      What use to put it back, to wrap up that which must be colder
      soon! He warmed it mechanically with his hand, listening to his
      father’s laboured breathing; while the power of feeling rose
      again within him. A little sob, quickly smothered, came from
      Winifred, but his mother sat unmoving with her eyes fixed on
      James. Soames signed to the nurse.

      “Where’s the doctor?” he whispered.

      “He’s been sent for.”

      “Can’t you do anything to ease his breathing?”

      “Only an injection; and he can’t stand it. The doctor said, while
      he was fighting....”

      “He’s not fighting,” whispered Soames, “he’s being slowly
      smothered. It’s awful.”

      James stirred uneasily, as if he knew what they were saying.
      Soames rose and bent over him. James feebly moved his two hands,
      and Soames took them.

      “He wants to be pulled up,” whispered the nurse.

      Soames pulled. He thought he pulled gently, but a look almost of
      anger passed over James’ face. The nurse plumped the pillows.
      Soames laid the hands down, and bending over kissed his father’s
      forehead. As he was raising himself again, James’ eyes bent on
      him a look which seemed to come from the very depths of what was
      left within. “I’m done, my boy,” it seemed to say, “take care of
      them, take care of yourself; take care—I leave it all to you.”

      “Yes, Yes,” Soames whispered, “yes, yes.”

      Behind him the nurse did he knew not what, for his father made a
      tiny movement of repulsion as if resenting that interference; and
      almost at once his breathing eased away, became quiet; he lay
      very still. The strained expression on his face passed, a curious
      white tranquillity took its place. His eyelids quivered, rested;
      the whole face rested; at ease. Only by the faint puffing of his
      lips could they tell that he was breathing. Soames sank back on
      his chair, and fell to cherishing the foot again. He heard the
      nurse quietly crying over there by the fire; curious that she, a
      stranger, should be the only one of them who cried! He heard the
      quiet lick and flutter of the fire flames. One more old Forsyte
      going to his long rest—wonderful, they were!—wonderful how he had
      held on! His mother and Winifred were leaning forward, hanging on
      the sight of James’ lips. But Soames bent sideways over the feet,
      warming them both; they gave him comfort, colder and colder
      though they grew. Suddenly he started up; a sound, a dreadful
      sound such as he had never heard, was coming from his father’s
      lips, as if an outraged heart had broken with a long moan. What a
      strong heart, to have uttered that farewell! It ceased. Soames
      looked into the face. No motion; no breath! Dead! He kissed the
      brow, turned round and went out of the room. He ran upstairs to
      the bedroom, his old bedroom, still kept for him; flung himself
      face down on the bed, and broke into sobs which he stilled with
      the pillow....

      A little later he went downstairs and passed into the room. James
      lay alone, wonderfully calm, free from shadow and anxiety, with
      the gravity on his ravaged face which underlies great age, the
      worn fine gravity of old coins.

      Soames looked steadily at that face, at the fire, at all the room
      with windows thrown open to the London night.

      “Good-bye!” he whispered, and went out.




      CHAPTER XIV HIS


      He had much to see to, that night and all next day. A telegram at
      breakfast reassured him about Annette, and he only caught the
      last train back to Reading, with Emily’s kiss on his forehead and
      in his ears her words:

      “I don’t know what I should have done without you, my dear boy.”

      He reached his house at midnight. The weather had changed, was
      mild again, as though, having finished its work and sent a
      Forsyte to his last account, it could relax. A second telegram,
      received at dinner-time, had confirmed the good news of Annette,
      and, instead of going in, Soames passed down through the garden
      in the moonlight to his houseboat. He could sleep there quite
      well. Bitterly tired, he lay down on the sofa in his fur coat and
      fell asleep. He woke soon after dawn and went on deck. He stood
      against the rail, looking west where the river swept round in a
      wide curve under the woods. In Soames, appreciation of natural
      beauty was curiously like that of his farmer ancestors, a sense
      of grievance if it wasn’t there, sharpened, no doubt, and
      civilised, by his researches among landscape painting. But dawn
      has power to fertilise the most matter-of-fact vision, and he was
      stirred. It was another world from the river he knew, under that
      remote cool light; a world into which man had not entered, an
      unreal world, like some strange shore sighted by discovery. Its
      colour was not the colour of convention, was hardly colour at
      all; its shapes were brooding yet distinct; its silence stunning;
      it had no scent. Why it should move him he could not tell, unless
      it were that he felt so alone in it, bare of all relationship and
      all possessions. Into such a world his father might be voyaging,
      for all resemblance it had to the world he had left. And Soames
      took refuge from it in wondering what painter could have done it
      justice. The white-grey water was like—like the belly of a fish!
      Was it possible that this world on which he looked was all
      private property, except the water—and even that was tapped! No
      tree, no shrub, not a blade of grass, not a bird or beast, not
      even a fish that was not owned. And once on a time all this was
      jungle and marsh and water, and weird creatures roamed and
      sported without human cognizance to give them names; rotting
      luxuriance had rioted where those tall, carefully planted woods
      came down to the water, and marsh-misted reeds on that far side
      had covered all the pasture. Well! they had got it under,
      kennelled it all up, labelled it, and stowed it in lawyers’
      offices. And a good thing too! But once in a way, as now, the
      ghost of the past came out to haunt and brood and whisper to any
      human who chanced to be awake: “Out of my unowned loneliness you
      all came, into it some day you will all return.”

      And Soames, who felt the chill and the eeriness of that world—new
      to him and so very old: the world, unowned, visiting the scene of
      its past—went down and made himself tea on a spirit-lamp. When he
      had drunk it, he took out writing materials and wrote two
      paragraphs:

      “On the 20th instant at his residence in Park Lane, James
      Forsyte, in his ninety-first year. Funeral at noon on the 24th at
      Highgate. No flowers by request.”

      “On the 20th instant at The Shelter; Mapledurham, Annette, wife
      of Soames Forsyte, of a daughter.” And underneath on the
      blottingpaper he traced the word “son.”

      It was eight o’clock in an ordinary autumn world when he went
      across to the house. Bushes across the river stood round and
      bright-coloured out of a milky haze; the wood-smoke went up blue
      and straight; and his doves cooed, preening their feathers in the
      sunlight.

      He stole up to his dressing-room, bathed, shaved, put on fresh
      linen and dark clothes.

      Madame Lamotte was beginning her breakfast when he went down.

      She looked at his clothes, said, “Don’t tell me!” and pressed his
      hand. “Annette is prettee well. But the doctor say she can never
      have no more children. You knew that?” Soames nodded. “It’s a
      pity. _Mais la petite est adorable. Du café?_”

      Soames got away from her as soon as he could. She offended
      him—solid, matter-of-fact, quick, clear—_French_. He could not
      bear her vowels, her “r’s”. he resented the way she had looked at
      him, as if it were his fault that Annette could never bear him a
      son! His fault! He even resented her cheap adoration of the
      daughter he had not yet seen.
