


Ron and Hermione joined Neville, Seamus, and Dean 
the West Ham fan up in the top row. As a surprise for 
Harry, they had painted a large banner on one of the 
sheets Scabbers had ruined. It said Potter for 
President, and Dean, who was good at drawing, had 
done a large Gryffindor lion underneath. Then 
Hermione had performed a tricky little charm so that 
the paint flashed different colors. 

Meanwhile, in the locker room, Harry and the rest of 
the team were changing into their scarlet Quidditch 
robes (Slytherin would be playing in green) . 

Wood cleared his throat for silence. 

“Okay, men,” he said. 

“And women,” said Chaser Angelina Johnson. 

“And women,” Wood agreed. “This is it.” 

“The big one,” said Fred Weasley. 

“The one we’ve all been waiting for,” said George. 

“We know Oliver’s speech by heart,” Fred told Harry, 
“we were on the team last year.” 

“Shut up, you two,” said Wood. “This is the best team 
Gryffindor’s had in years. We’re going to win. I know 
it.” 

He glared at them all as if to say, “Or else.” 

“Right. It’s time. Good luck, all of you.” 

Harry followed Fred and George out of the locker 
room and, hoping his knees weren’t going to give way, 
walked onto the field to loud cheers. 

Page | 207 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Madam Hooch was refereeing. She stood in the 
middle of the field waiting for the two teams, her 
broom in her hand. 

“Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you,” she said, 
once they were all gathered around her. Harry noticed 
that she seemed to be speaking particularly to the 
Slytherin Captain, Marcus Flint, a fifth year. Harry 
thought Flint looked as if he had some troll blood in 
him. Out of the corner of his eye he saw the fluttering 
banner high above, flashing Potter for President over 
the crowd. His heart skipped. He felt braver. 

“Mount your brooms, please.” 

Harry clambered onto his Nimbus Two Thousand. 

Madam Hooch gave a loud blast on her silver whistle. 

Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. They 
were off. 

“And the Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina 
Johnson of Gryffindor — what an excellent Chaser 
that girl is, and rather attractive, too — ” 

“JORDAN!” 

“Sorry, Professor.” 

The Weasley twins’ friend, Lee Jordan, was doing the 
commentary for the match, closely watched by 
Professor McGonagall. 

“And she’s really belting along up there, a neat pass 
to Alicia Spinnet, a good find of Oliver Wood’s, last 
year only a reserve — back to Johnson and — no, the 
Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, Slytherin Captain 
Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes — Flint 
Page | 208 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




flying like an eagle up there — he’s going to sc- no, 
stopped by an excellent move by Gryffindor Keeper 
Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle — that’s 
Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive 
around Flint, off up the field and — OUCH — that 
must have hurt, hit in the back of the head by a 
Bludger — Quaffle taken by the Slytherins — that’s 
Adrian Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts, but 
he’s blocked by a second Bludger — sent his way by 
Fred or George Weasley, can’t tell which — nice play 
by the Gryffindor Beater, anyway, and Johnson back 
in possession of the Quaffle, a clear field ahead and 
off she goes — she’s really flying — dodges a speeding 
Bludger — the goal posts are ahead — come on, now, 
Angelina — Keeper Bletchley dives — misses — 
GRYFFINDORS SCORE!” 

Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and 
moans from the Slytherins. 

“Budge up there, move along.” 

“Hagrid!” 

Ron and Hermione squeezed together to give Hagrid 
enough space to join them. 

“Bin watchin’ from me hut,” said Hagrid, patting a 
large pair of binoculars around his neck, “But it isn’t 
the same as bein’ in the crowd. No sign of the Snitch 
yet, eh?” 

“Nope,” said Ron. “Harry hasn’t had much to do yet.” 

“Kept outta trouble, though, that’s somethin’,” said 
Hagrid, raising his binoculars and peering skyward at 
the speck that was Harry. 



Page | 209 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Way up above them, Harry was gliding over the game, 
squinting about for some sign of the Snitch. This was 
part of his and Wood’s game plan. 

“Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the 
Snitch,” Wood had said. “We don’t want you attacked 
before you have to be.” 

When Angelina had scored, Harry had done a couple 
of loop-the-loops to let off his feelings. Now he was 
back to staring around for the Snitch. Once he caught 
sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a reflection 
from one of the Weasleys’ wristwatches, and once a 
Bludger decided to come pelting his way, more like a 
cannonball than anything, but Harry dodged it and 
Fred Weasley came chasing after it. 

“All right there, Harry?” he had time to yell, as he 
beat the Bludger furiously toward Marcus Flint. 

“Slytherin in possession,” Lee Jordan was saying, 
“Chaser Pucey ducks two Bludgers, two Weasleys, 
and Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the — wait a 
moment — was that the Snitch?” 

A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey 
dropped the Quaffle, too busy looking over his 
shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed his left 
ear. 

Harry saw it. In a great rush of excitement he dived 
downward after the streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker 
Terence Higgs had seen it, too. Neck and neck they 
hurtled toward the Snitch — all the Chasers seemed 
to have forgotten what they were supposed to be 
doing as they hung in midair to watch. 



Page | 210 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry was faster than Higgs — he could see the little 
round ball, wings fluttering, darting up ahead — he 
put on an extra spurt of speed — 

WHAM! A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors 
below — Marcus Flint had blocked Harry on purpose, 
and Harry’s broom spun off course, Harry holding on 
for dear life. 

“Foul!” screamed the Gryffindors. 

Madam Hooch spoke angrily to Flint and then ordered 
a free shot at the goal posts for Gryffindor. But in all 
the confusion, of course, the Golden Snitch had 
disappeared from sight again. 

Down in the stands, Dean Thomas was yelling, “Send 
him off, ref! Red card!” 

“What are you talking about, Dean?” said Ron. 

“Red card!” said Dean furiously. “In soccer you get 
shown the red card and you’re out of the game!” 

“But this isn’t soccer, Dean,” Ron reminded him. 

Hagrid, however, was on Dean’s side. 

“They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked 
Harry outta the air.” 

Lee Jordan was finding it difficult not to take sides. 

“So — after that obvious and disgusting bit of 
cheating — ” 

“Jordan!” growled Professor McGonagall. 

“I mean, after that open and revolting foul — ” 

Page | 211 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Jordan, I’m warning you — ” 



“All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor 
Seeker, which could happen to anyone, I’m sure, so a 
penalty to Gryffindor, taken by Spinnet, who puts it 
away, no trouble, and we continue play, Gryffindor 
still in possession.” 

It was as Harry dodged another Bludger, which went 
spinning dangerously past his head, that it happened. 
His broom gave a sudden, frightening lurch. For a 
split second, he thought he was going to fall. He 
gripped the broom tightly with both his hands and 
knees. He’d never felt anything like that. 

It happened again. It was as though the broom was 
trying to buck him off. But Nimbus Two Thousands 
did not suddenly decide to buck their riders off. Harry 
tried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal posts — 
he had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out — 
and then he realized that his broom was completely 
out of his control. He couldn’t turn it. He couldn’t 
direct it at all. It was zigzagging through the air, and 
every now and then making violent swishing 
movements that almost unseated him. 

Lee was still commentating. 

“Slytherin in possession — Flint with the Quaffle — 
passes Spinnet — passes Bell — hit hard in the face 
by a Bludger, hope it broke his nose — only joking, 
Professor — Slytherins score — oh no ...” 

The Slytherins were cheering. No one seemed to have 
noticed that Harry’s broom was behaving strangely It 
was carrying him slowly higher, away from the game, 
jerking and twitching as it went. 



Page | 212 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Dunno what Harry thinks he’s doing,” Hagrid 
mumbled. He stared through his binoculars. “If I 
didn’ know better, I’d say he’d lost control of his 
broom ... but he can’t have. ...” 

Suddenly, people were pointing up at Harry all over 
the stands. His broom had started to roll over and 
over, with him only just managing to hold on. Then 
the whole crowd gasped. Harry’s broom had given a 
wild jerk and Harry swung off it. He was now dangling 
from it, holding on with only one hand. 

“Did something happen to it when Flint blocked him?” 
Seamus whispered. 

“Can’t have,” Hagrid said, his voice shaking. “Can’t 
nothing interfere with a broomstick except powerful 
Dark magic — no kid could do that to a Nimbus Two 
Thousand.” 

At these words, Hermione seized Hagrid ’s binoculars, 
but instead of looking up at Harry, she started 
looking frantically at the crowd. 

“What are you doing?” moaned Ron, gray-faced. 

“I knew it,” Hermione gasped, “Snape — look.” 

Ron grabbed the binoculars. Snape was in the middle 
of the stands opposite them. He had his eyes fixed on 
Harry and was muttering nonstop under his breath. 

“He’s doing something — jinxing the broom,” said 
Hermione. 

“What should we do?” 

“Leave it to me.” 



Page | 213 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Before Ron could say another word, Hermione had 
disappeared. Ron turned the binoculars back on 
Harry. His broom was vibrating so hard, it was almost 
impossible for him to hang on much longer. The 
whole crowd was on its feet, watching, terrified, as the 
Weasleys flew up to try and pull Harry safely onto one 
of their brooms, but it was no good — every time they 
got near him, the broom would jump higher still. They 
dropped lower and circled beneath him, obviously 
hoping to catch him if he fell. Marcus Flint seized the 
Quaffle and scored five times without anyone 
noticing. 

“Come on, Hermione,” Ron muttered desperately. 

Hermione had fought her way across to the stand 
where Snape stood, and was now racing along the row 
behind him; she didn’t even stop to say sorry as she 
knocked Professor Quirrell headfirst into the row in 
front. Reaching Snape, she crouched down, pulled 
out her wand, and whispered a few, well-chosen 
words. Bright blue flames shot from her wand onto 
the hem of Snape ’s robes. 

It took perhaps thirty seconds for Snape to realize 
that he was on fire. A sudden yelp told her she had 
done her job. Scooping the fire off him into a little jar 
in her pocket, she scrambled back along the row — 
Snape would never know what had happened. 

It was enough. Up in the air, Harry was suddenly able 
to clamber back on to his broom. 

“Neville, you can look!” Ron said. Neville had been 
sobbing into Hagrid’s jacket for the last five minutes. 

Harry was speeding toward the ground when the 
crowd saw him clap his hand to his mouth as though 



Page | 214 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




he was about to be sick — he hit the field on all fours 
— coughed — and something gold fell into his hand. 

“I’ve got the Snitch!” he shouted, waving it above his 
head, and the game ended in complete confusion. 

“He didn’t catch it, he nearly swallowed it,” Flint was 
still howling twenty minutes later, but it made no 
difference — Harry hadn’t broken any rules and Lee 
Jordan was still happily shouting the results — 
Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy 
points to sixty. Harry heard none of this, though. He 
was being made a cup of strong tea back in Hagrid’s 
hut, with Ron and Hermione. 

“It was Snape,” Ron was explaining, “Hermione and I 
saw him. He was cursing your broomstick, muttering, 
he wouldn’t take his eyes off you.” 

“Rubbish,” said Hagrid, who hadn’t heard a word of 
what had gone on next to him in the stands. “Why 
would Snape do somethin’ like that?” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another, 
wondering what to tell him. Harry decided on the 
truth. 

“I found out something about him,” he told Hagrid. 
“He tried to get past that three-headed dog on 
Halloween. It bit him. We think he was trying to steal 
whatever it’s guarding.” 

Hagrid dropped the teapot. 

“How do you know about Fluffy?” he said. 

“ Fluffy ?” 



Page | 215 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah — he’s mine — bought him off a Greek chappie 
I met in the pub las’ year — I lent him to Dumbledore 
to guard the — ” 

“Yes?” said Harry eagerly. 

“Now, don’t ask me anymore,” said Hagrid gruffly. 
“That’s top secret, that is.” 

“But Snape’s trying to steal it.” 

“Rubbish,” said Hagrid again. “Snape’s a Hogwarts 
teacher, he’d do nothin’ of the sort.” 

“So why did he just try and kill Harry?” cried 
Hermione. 

The afternoon’s events certainly seemed to have 
changed her mind about Snape. 

“I know a jinx when I see one, Hagrid, I’ve read all 
about them! You’ve got to keep eye contact, and 
Snape wasn’t blinking at all, I saw him!” 

“I’m tellin’ yeh, yer wrong!” said Hagrid hotly. “I don’ 
know why Harry’s broom acted like that, but Snape 
wouldn’ try an’ kill a student! Now, listen to me, all 
three of yeh — yer meddlin’ in things that don’ 
concern yeh. It’s dangerous. You forget that dog, an’ 
you forget what it’s guardin’, that’s between Professor 
Dumbledore an’ Nicolas Flamel — ■” 

“Aha!” said Harry, “so there’s someone called Nicolas 
Flamel involved, is there?” 

Hagrid looked furious with himself. 



Page | 216 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 






THE MIRROR OF ERISED 

Christmas was coming. One morning in mid- 
December, Hogwarts woke to find itself covered in 
several feet of snow. The lake froze solid and the 
Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several 
snowballs so that they followed Quirrell around, 
bouncing off the back of his turban. The few owls that 
managed to battle their way through the stormy sky 
to deliver mail had to be nursed back to health by 
Hagrid before they could fly off again. 

No one could wait for the holidays to start. While the 
Gryffindor common room and the Great Hall had 
roaring fires, the drafty corridors had become icy and 
a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms. 
Worst of all were Professor Snape’s classes down in 
the dungeons, where their breath rose in a mist 
before them and they kept as close as possible to 
their hot cauldrons. 

“I do feel so sorry,” said Draco Malfoy, one Potions 
class, “for all those people who have to stay at 



Page | 217 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



Hogwarts for Christmas because they’re not wanted 
at home.” 

He was looking over at Harry as he spoke. Crabbe and 
Goyle chuckled. Harry, who was measuring out 
powdered spine of lion-fish, ignored them. Malfoy had 
been even more unpleasant than usual since the 
Quidditch match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had 
lost, he had tried to get everyone laughing at how a 
wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing Harry as 
Seeker next. Then he’d realized that nobody found 
this funny, because they were all so impressed at the 
way Harry had managed to stay on his bucking 
broomstick. So Malfoy, jealous and angry, had gone 
back to taunting Harry about having no proper 
family. 

It was true that Harry wasn’t going back to Privet 
Drive for Christmas. Professor McGonagall had come 
around the week before, making a list of students 
who would be staying for the holidays, and Harry had 
signed up at once. He didn’t feel sorry for himself at 
all; this would probably be the best Christmas he’d 
ever had. Ron and his brothers were staying, too, 
because Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were going to Romania 
to visit Charlie. 

When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions, 
they found a large fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. 
Two enormous feet sticking out at the bottom and a 
loud puffing sound told them that Hagrid was behind 
it. 

“Hi, Hagrid, want any help?” Ron asked, sticking his 
head through the branches. 

“Nah, I’m all right, thanks, Ron.” 



Page | 218 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Would you mind moving out of the way?” came 
Malfoy’s cold drawl from behind them. “Are you trying 
to earn some extra money, Weasley? Hoping to be 
gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I 
suppose — that hut of Hagrid’s must seem like a 
palace compared to what your family’s used to.” 

Ron dived at Malfoy just as Snape came up the stairs. 

“WEASLEY!” 

Ron let go of the front of Malfoy’s robes. 

“He was provoked, Professor Snape,” said Hagrid, 
sticking his huge hairy face out from behind the tree. 
“Malfoy was insultin’ his family.” 

“Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, 
Hagrid,” said Snape silkily. “Five points from 
Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful it isn’t more. 
Move along, all of you.” 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle pushed roughly past the 
tree, scattering needles everywhere and smirking. 

“I’ll get him,” said Ron, grinding his teeth at Malfoy’s 
back, “one of these days, I’ll get him — ” 

“I hate them both,” said Harry, “Malfoy and Snape.” 

“Come on, cheer up, it’s nearly Christmas,” said 
Hagrid. “Tell yeh what, come with me an’ see the 
Great Hall, looks a treat.” 

So the three of them followed Hagrid and his tree off 
to the Great Hall, where Professor McGonagall and 
Professor Flitwick were busy with the Christmas 
decorations. 



Page | 219 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah, Hagrid, the last tree — put it in the far corner, 
would you?” 

The hall looked spectacular. Festoons of holly and 
mistletoe hung all around the walls, and no less than 
twelve towering Christmas trees stood around the 
room, some sparkling with tiny icicles, some glittering 
with hundreds of candles. 

“How many days you got left until yer holidays?” 
Hagrid asked. 

“Just one,” said Hermione. “And that reminds me — 
Harry, Ron, we’ve got half an hour before lunch, we 
should be in the library.” 

“Oh yeah, you’re right,” said Ron, tearing his eyes 
away from Professor Flitwick, who had golden 
bubbles blossoming out of his wand and was trailing 
them over the branches of the new tree. 

“The library?” said Hagrid, following them out of the 
hall. “Just before the holidays? Bit keen, aren’t yeh?” 

“Oh, we’re not working,” Harry told him brightly. 

“Ever since you mentioned Nicolas Flamel we’ve been 
trying to find out who he is.” 

“You what?” Hagrid looked shocked. “Listen here — 
I’ve told yeh — drop it. It’s nothin’ to you what that 
dog’s guardin’.” 

“We just want to know who Nicolas Flamel is, that’s 
all,” said Hermione. 

“Unless you’d like to tell us and save us the trouble?” 
Harry added. “We must’ve been through hundreds of 
books already and we can’t find him anywhere — just 



Page | 220 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




give us a hint — I know I’ve read his name 
somewhere.” 

“I’m sayin’ nothin’,” said Hagrid flatly. 

“Just have to find out for ourselves, then,” said Ron, 
and they left Hagrid looking disgruntled and hurried 
off to the library. 

They had indeed been searching books for Flamel’s 
name ever since Hagrid had let it slip, because how 
else were they going to find out what Snape was 
trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to 
know where to begin, not knowing what Flamel might 
have done to get himself into a book. He wasn’t in 
Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable 
Magical Names of Our Time ; he was missing, too, from 
Important Modern Magical Discoveries, and A Study of 
Recent Developments in Wizardry. And then, of 
course, there was the sheer size of the library; tens of 
thousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds 
of narrow rows. 

Hermione took out a list of subjects and titles she had 
decided to search while Ron strode off down a row of 
books and started pulling them off the shelves at 
random. Harry wandered over to the Restricted 
Section. He had been wondering for a while if Flamel 
wasn’t somewhere in there. Unfortunately, you 
needed a specially signed note from one of the 
teachers to look in any of the restricted books, and he 
knew he’d never get one. These were the books 
containing powerful Dark Magic never taught at 
Hogwarts, and only read by older students studying 
advanced Defense Against the Dark Arts. 

“What are you looking for, boy?” 

“Nothing,” said Harry. 

Page | 221 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Madam Pince the librarian brandished a feather 
duster at him. 

“You’d better get out, then. Go on — out!” 

Wishing he’d been a bit quicker at thinking up some 
story, Harry left the library. He, Ron, and Hermione 
had already agreed they’d better not ask Madam 
Pince where they could find Flamel. They were sure 
she’d be able to tell them, but they couldn’t risk 
Snape hearing what they were up to. 

Harry waited outside in the corridor to see if the other 
two had found anything, but he wasn’t very hopeful. 
They had been looking for two weeks, after all, but as 
they only had odd moments between lessons it wasn’t 
surprising they’d found nothing. What they really 
needed was a nice long search without Madam Pince 
breathing down their necks. 

Five minutes later, Ron and Hermione joined him, 
shaking their heads. They went off to lunch. 

“You will keep looking while I’m away, won’t you?” 
said Hermione. “And send me an owl if you find 
anything.” 

“And you could ask your parents if they know who 
Flamel is,” said Ron. “It’d be safe to ask them.” 

“Very safe, as they’re both dentists,” said Hermione. 

Once the holidays had started, Ron and Harry were 
having too good a time to think much about Flamel. 
They had the dormitory to themselves and the 
common room was far emptier than usual, so they 
were able to get the good armchairs by the fire. They 
sat by the hour eating anything they could spear on a 
toasting fork — bread, English muffins, 

Page | 222 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




marshmallows — and plotting ways of getting Malfoy 
expelled, which were fun to talk about even if they 
wouldn’t work. 

Ron also started teaching Harry wizard chess. This 
was exactly like Muggle chess except that the figures 
were alive, which made it a lot like directing troops in 
battle. Ron’s set was very old and battered. Like 
everything else he owned, it had once belonged to 
someone else in his family — in this case, his 
grandfather. However, old chessmen weren’t a 
drawback at all. Ron knew them so well he never had 
trouble getting them to do what he wanted. 

Harry played with chessmen Seamus Finnigan had 
lent him, and they didn’t trust him at all. He wasn’t a 
very good player yet and they kept shouting different 
bits of advice at him, which was confusing. “Don’t 
send me there, can’t you see his knight? Send him, we 
can afford to lose him.” 

On Christmas Eve, Harry went to bed looking forward 
to the next day for the food and the fun, but not 
expecting any presents at all. When he woke early in 
the morning, however, the first thing he saw was a 
small pile of packages at the foot of his bed. 

“Merry Christmas,” said Ron sleepily as Harry 
scrambled out of bed and pulled on his bathrobe. 

“You, too,” said Harry. “Will you look at this? I’ve got 
some presents!” 

“What did you expect, turnips?” said Ron, turning to 
his own pile, which was a lot bigger than Harry’s. 

Harry picked up the top parcel. It was wrapped in 
thick brown paper and scrawled across it was To 
Harry, from Hagrid. Inside was a roughly cut wooden 

Page | 223 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




flute. Hagrid had obviously whittled it himself. Harry 
blew it — it sounded a bit like an owl. 

A second, very small parcel contained a note. 

We received your message and enclose your Christmas 
present. From Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia. Taped 
to the note was a fifty-pence piece. 

“That’s friendly,” said Harry. 

Ron was fascinated by the fifty pence. 

“ Weird\ ” he said, “What a shape! This is money?” 

“You can keep it,” said Harry, laughing at how 
pleased Ron was. “Hagrid and my aunt and uncle — 
so who sent these?” 

“I think I know who that one’s from,” said Ron, 
turning a bit pink and pointing to a very lumpy 
parcel. “My mom. I told her you didn’t expect any 
presents and — oh, no,” he groaned, “she’s made you 
a Weasley sweater.” 

Harry had torn open the parcel to find a thick, hand- 
knitted sweater in emerald green and a large box of 
homemade fudge. 

“Every year she makes us a sweater,” said Ron, 
unwrapping his own, “and mine’s always maroon.” 

“That’s really nice of her,” said Harry, trying the 
fudge, which was very tasty. 

His next present also contained candy — a large box 
of Chocolate Frogs from Hermione. 



Page | 224 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




This only left one parcel. Harry picked it up and felt 
it. It was very light. He unwrapped it. 

Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the 
floor where it lay in gleaming folds. Ron gasped. 

“I’ve heard of those,” he said in a hushed voice, 
dropping the box of Every Flavor Beans he’d gotten 
from Hermione. “If that’s what I think it is — they’re 
really rare, and really valuable.” 

“What is it?” 

Harry picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor. It 
was strange to the touch, like water woven into 
material. 

“It’s an Invisibility Cloak,” said Ron, a look of awe on 
his face. “I’m sure it is — try it on.” 

Harry threw the cloak around his shoulders and Ron 
gave a yell. 

“It is! Look down!” 

Harry looked down at his feet, but they were gone. He 
dashed to the mirror. Sure enough, his reflection 
looked back at him, just his head suspended in 
midair, his body completely invisible. He pulled the 
cloak over his head and his reflection vanished 
completely. 

“There’s a note!” said Ron suddenly. “A note fell out of 
it!” 



Harry pulled off the cloak and seized the letter. 
Written in narrow, loopy writing he had never seen 
before were the following words: 



Page | 225 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Your father left this in my possession before he died. It 
is time it was returned to you. 

Use it well. 

A Very Merry Christmas to you. 

There was no signature. Harry stared at the note. Ron 
was admiring the cloak. 

“I’d give anuthinq for one of these,” he said. “Anuthinq. 
What’s the matter?” 

“Nothing,” said Harry. He felt very strange. Who had 
sent the cloak? Had it really once belonged to his 
father? 

Before he could say or think anything else, the 
dormitory door was flung open and Fred and George 
Weasley bounded in. Harry stuffed the cloak quickly 
out of sight. He didn’t feel like sharing it with anyone 
else yet. 

“Merry Christmas!” 

“Hey, look — Harry’s got a Weasley sweater, too!” 

Fred and George were wearing blue sweaters, one 
with a large yellow F on it, the other a G. 

“Harry’s is better than ours, though,” said Fred, 
holding up Harry’s sweater. “She obviously makes 
more of an effort if you’re not family.” 

“Why aren’t you wearing yours, Ron?” George 
demanded. “Come on, get it on, they’re lovely and 
warm.” 



Page | 226 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“I hate maroon,” Ron moaned halfheartedly as he 
pulled it over his head. 

“You haven’t got a letter on yours,” George observed. 

“I suppose she thinks you don’t forget your name. But 
we’re not stupid — we know we’re called Gred and 
Forge.” 

“What’s all this noise?” 

Percy Weasley stuck his head through the door, 
looking disapproving. He had clearly gotten halfway 
through unwrapping his presents as he, too, carried a 
lumpy sweater over his arm, which Fred seized. 

“P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we’re all 
wearing ours, even Harry got one.” 

“I — don’t — want — ” said Percy thickly, as the twins 
forced the sweater over his head, knocking his glasses 
askew. 

“And you’re not sitting with the prefects today, 
either,” said George. “Christmas is a time for family.” 

They frog-marched Percy from the room, his arms 
pinned to his side by his sweater. 

Harry had never in all his life had such a Christmas 
dinner. A hundred fat, roast turkeys; mountains of 
roast and boiled potatoes; platters of chipolatas; 
tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thick, rich 
gravy and cranberry sauce — and stacks of wizard 
crackers every few feet along the table. These 
fantastic party favors were nothing like the feeble 
Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought, with their 
little plastic toys and their flimsy paper hats inside. 
Harry pulled a wizard cracker with Fred and it didn’t 
just bang, it went off with a blast like a cannon and 
Page | 227 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




engulfed them all in a cloud of blue smoke, while from 
the inside exploded a rear admiral’s hat and several 
live, white mice. Up at the High Table, Dumbledore 
had swapped his pointed wizard’s hat for a flowered 
bonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor 
Flitwick had just read him. 

Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. 
Percy nearly broke his teeth on a silver Sickle 
embedded in his slice. Harry watched Hagrid getting 
redder and redder in the face as he called for more 
wine, finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the 
cheek, who, to Harry’s amazement, giggled and 
blushed, her top hat lopsided. 

When Harry finally left the table, he was laden down 
with a stack of things out of the crackers, including a 
pack of non-explodable, luminous balloons, a Grow- 
Your-Own-Warts kit, and his own new wizard chess 
set. The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a 
nasty feeling they were going to end up as Mrs. 
Norris’s Christmas dinner. 

Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon 
having a furious snowball fight on the grounds. Then, 
cold, wet, and gasping for breath, they returned to the 
fire in the Gryffindor common room, where Harry 
broke in his new chess set by losing spectacularly to 
Ron. He suspected he wouldn’t have lost so badly if 
Percy hadn’t tried to help him so much. 

After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle, 
and Christmas cake, everyone felt too full and sleepy 
to do much before bed except sit and watch Percy 
chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor Tower 
because they’d stolen his prefect badge. 

It had been Harry’s best Christmas day ever. Yet 
something had been nagging at the back of his mind 

Page | 228 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




all day. Not until he climbed into bed was he free to 
think about it: the Invisibility Cloak and whoever had 
sent it. 

Ron, full of turkey and cake and with nothing 
mysterious to bother him, fell asleep almost as soon 
as he’d drawn the curtains of his four-poster. Harry 
leaned over the side of his own bed and pulled the 
cloak out from under it. 

His father’s ... this had been his father’s. He let the 
material flow over his hands, smoother than silk, light 
as air. Use it well, the note had said. 
