Nougat — ” 

“Mum thought we’d been dueling,” said George. 

“Joke shop still on, then?” Harry muttered, 
pretending to be adjusting the nozzle on his spray. 

“Well, we haven’t had a chance to get premises yet,” 
said Fred, dropping his voice even lower as Mrs. 
Weasley mopped her brow with her scarf before 
returning to the attack, “so we’re running it as a mail- 
order service at the moment. We put advertisements 
in the Daily Prophet last week.” 

“All thanks to you, mate,” said George. “But don’t 
worry ... Mum hasn’t got a clue. She won’t read the 
Daily Prophet anymore, ’cause of it telling lies about 
you and Dumbledore.” 

Harry grinned. He had forced the Weasley twins to 
take the thousand-Galleon prize money he had won 
in the Triwizard Tournament to help them realize 
their ambition to open a joke shop, but he was still 
glad to know that his part in furthering their plans 
was unknown to Mrs. Weasley, who did not think that 
running a joke shop was a suitable career for two of 
her sons. 

The de-doxying of the curtains took most of the 
morning. It was past midday when Mrs. Weasley 
finally removed her protective scarf, sank into a 
sagging armchair, and sprang up again with a cry of 

Page | 136Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




disgust, having sat on the bag of dead rats. The 
curtains were no longer buzzing; they hung limp and 
damp from the intensive spraying; unconscious 
doxies lay crammed in the bucket at the foot of them 
beside a bowl of their black eggs, at which 
Crookshanks was now sniffing and Fred and George 
were shooting covetous looks. 

“I think well tackle those after lunch.” 

Mrs. Weasley pointed at the dusty glass-fronted 
cabinets standing on either side of the mantelpiece. 
They were crammed with an odd assortment of 
objects: a selection of rusty daggers, claws, a coiled 
snakeskin, a number of tarnished silver boxes 
inscribed with languages Harry could not understand 
and, least pleasant of all, an ornate crystal bottle with 
a large opal set into the stopper, full of what Harry 
was quite sure was blood. 

The clanging doorbell rang again. Everyone looked at 
Mrs. Weasley. 

“Stay here,” she said firmly, snatching up the bag of 
rats as Mrs. Blacks screeches started up again from 
down below. “I’ll bring up some sandwiches.” 

She left the room, closing the door carefully behind 
her. At once, everyone dashed over to the window to 
look down onto the doorstep. They could see the top 
of an unkempt gingery head and a stack of 
precariously balanced cauldrons. 

“Mundungus!” said Hermione. “What’s he brought all 
those cauldrons for?” 

“Probably looking for a safe place to keep them,” said 
Harry. “Isn’t that what he was doing the night he was 



Page | 137Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




supposed to be tailing me? Picking up dodgy 
cauldrons?” 



“Yeah, you’re right!” said Fred, as the front door 
opened; Mundungus heaved his cauldrons through it 
and disappeared from view. “Blimey, Mum won’t like 
that...” 

He and George crossed to the door and stood beside 
it, listening intently. Mrs. Black’s screaming had 
stopped again. 

“Mundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley,” Fred 
muttered, frowning with concentration. “Can’t hear 
properly ... d’you reckon we can risk the Extendable 
Ears?” 

“Might be worth it,” said George. “I could sneak 
upstairs and get a pair — ” 

But at that precise moment there was an explosion of 
sound from downstairs that rendered Extendable 
Ears quite unnecessary. All of them could hear 
exactly what Mrs. Weasley was shouting at the top of 
her voice. 

“WE ARE NOT RUNNING A HIDEOUT FOR STOLEN 
GOODS!” 

“I love hearing Mum shouting at someone else,” said 
Fred, with a satisfied smile on his face as he opened 
the door an inch or so to allow Mrs. Weasley ’s voice to 
permeate the room better. “It makes such a nice 
change.” 

COMPLETELY IRRESPONSIBLE, AS IF WE 
HAVENT GOT ENOUGH TO WORRY ABOUT 
WITHOUT YOU DRAGGING STOLEN CAULDRONS 
INTO THE HOUSE — ” 

Page | 138Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“The idiots are letting her get into her stride,” said 
George, shaking his head. “You’ve got to head her off 
early, otherwise she builds up a head of steam and 
goes on for hours. And she’s been dying to have a go 
at Mundungus ever since he sneaked off when he was 
supposed to be following you, Harry — and there goes 
Sirius’s mum again — ” 

Mrs. Weasley’s voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and 
screams from the portraits in the hall. George made 
to shut the door to drown the noise, but before he 
could do so, a house-elf edged into the room. 

Except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around 
its middle, it was completely naked. It looked very old. 
Its skin seemed to be several times too big for it and 
though it was bald like all house-elves, there was a 
quantity of white hair growing out of its large, batlike 
ears. Its eyes were a bloodshot and watery gray, and 
its fleshy nose was large and rather snoutlike. 

The elf took absolutely no notice of Harry and the 
rest. Acting as though it could not see them, it 
shuffled hunchbacked, slowly and doggedly, toward 
the far end of the room, muttering under its breath all 
the while in a hoarse, deep voice like a bullfrog’s, "... 
Smells like a drain and a criminal to boot, but she’s 
no better, nasty old blood traitor with her brats 
messing up my Mistress’s house, oh my poor 
Mistress, if she knew, if she knew the scum they’ve let 
in her house, what would she say to old Kreacher, oh 
the shame of it, Mudbloods and werewolves and 
traitors and thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can he 
do...” 

“Hello, Kreacher,” said Fred very loudly, closing the 
door with a snap. 



Page | 139Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The house-elf froze in his tracks, stopped muttering, 
and then gave a very pronounced and very 
unconvincing start of surprise. 

“Kreacher did not see Young Master,” he said, turning 
around and bowing to Fred. Still facing the carpet, he 
added, perfectly audibly, “Nasty little brat of a blood 
traitor it is.” 

“Sorry?” said George. “Didn’t catch that last bit.” 

“Kreacher said nothing,” said the elf, with a second 
bow to George, adding in a clear undertone, “and 
there’s its twin, unnatural little beasts they are.” 

Harry didn’t know whether to laugh or not. The elf 
straightened up, eyeing them all very malevolently, 
and apparently convinced that they could not hear 
him as he continued to mutter. 

"... and there’s the Mudblood, standing there bold as 
brass, oh if my Mistress knew, oh how she’d cry, and 
there’s a new boy, Kreacher doesn’t know his name, 
what is he doing here, Kreacher doesn’t know ...” 

“This is Harry, Kreacher,” said Hermione tentatively. 
“Harry Potter.” 

Kreacher’s pale eyes widened and he muttered faster 
and more furiously than ever. 

“The Mudblood is talking to Kreacher as though she 
is my friend, if Kreacher’s Mistress saw him in such 
company, oh what would she say — ” 

“Don’t call her a Mudblood!” said Ron and Ginny 
together, very angrily. 



Page | 140Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It doesn’t matter,” Hermione whispered, “he’s not in 
his right mind, he doesn’t know what he’s — ” 

“Don’t kid yourself, Hermione, he knows exactly what 
he’s saying,” said Fred, eyeing Kreacher with great 
dislike. 

Kreacher was still muttering, his eyes on Harry. 

“Is it true? Is it Harry Potter? Kreacher can see the 
scar, it must be true, that’s that boy who stopped the 
Dark Lord, Kreacher wonders how he did it — ” 

“Don’t we all, Kreacher?” said Fred. 

“What do you want anyway?” George asked. 

Kreacher ’s huge eyes darted onto George. 

“Kreacher is cleaning,” he said evasively. 

“A likely story,” said a voice behind Harry. 

Sirius had come back; he was glowering at the elf 
from the doorway. The noise in the hall had abated; 
perhaps Mrs. Weasley and Mundungus had moved 
their argument down into the kitchen. At the sight of 
Sirius, Kreacher flung himself into a ridiculously low 
bow that flattened his snoutlike nose on the floor. 

“Stand up straight,” said Sirius impatiently. “Now, 
what are you up to?” 

“Kreacher is cleaning,” the elf repeated. “Kreacher 
lives to serve the noble house of Black — ” 

“ — and it’s getting blacker every day, it’s filthy,” said 
Sirius. 



Page | 141Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Master always liked his little joke,” said Kreacher, 
bowing again, and continuing in an undertone, 
“Master was a nasty ungrateful swine who broke his 
mother’s heart — ” 

“My mother didn’t have a heart, Kreacher,” Sirius 
snapped. “She kept herself alive out of pure spite.” 

Kreacher bowed again and said, “Whatever Master 
says,” then muttered furiously, “Master is not fit to 
wipe slime from his mother’s boots, oh my poor 
Mistress, what would she say if she saw Kreacher 
serving him, how she hated him, what a 
disappointment he was — ” 

“I asked you what you were up to,” said Sirius coldly. 
“Every time you show up pretending to be cleaning, 
you sneak something off to your room so we can’t 
throw it out.” 

“Kreacher would never move anything from its proper 
place in Master’s house,” said the elf, then muttered 
very fast, “Mistress would never forgive Kreacher if 
the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries it’s been 
in the family, Kreacher must save it, Kreacher will not 
let Master and the blood traitors and the brats 
destroy it — ” 

“I thought it might be that,” said Sirius, casting a 
disdainful look at the opposite wall. “She’ll have put 
another Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of it, 

I don’t doubt, but if I can get rid of it I certainly will. 
Now go away, Kreacher.” 

It seemed that Kreacher did not dare disobey a direct 
order; nevertheless, the look he gave Sirius as he 
shuffled out past him was redolent of deepest loathing 
and he muttered all the way out of the room. 



Page | 142Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ — comes back from Azkaban ordering Kreacher 
around, oh my poor Mistress, what would she say if 
she saw the house now, scum living in it, her 
treasures thrown out, she swore he was no son of 
hers and he’s back, they say he’s a murderer too — ” 

“Keep muttering and I will be a murderer!” said Sirius 
irritably, and he slammed the door shut on the elf. 

“Sirius, he’s not right in the head,” said Hermione 
pleadingly, “I don’t think he realizes we can hear 
him.” 

“He’s been alone too long,” said Sirius, “taking mad 
orders from my mother’s portrait and talking to 
himself, but he was always a foul little — ” 

“If you just set him free,” said Hermione hopefully, 
“maybe — ” 

“We can’t set him free, he knows too much about the 
Order,” said Sirius curtly. “And anyway, the shock 
would kill him. You suggest to him that he leaves this 
house, see how he takes it.” 

Sirius walked across the room, where the tapestry 
Kreacher had been trying to protect hung the length 
of the wall. Harry and the others followed. 

The tapestry looked immensely old; it was faded and 
looked as though doxies had gnawed it in places; 
nevertheless, the golden thread with which it was 
embroidered still glinted brightly enough to show 
them a sprawling family tree dating back (as far as 
Harry could tell) to the Middle Ages. Large words at 
the very top of the tapestry read: 

THE NOBLE AND MOST ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK 



Page | 143Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“TOUJOURS PUR” 



“You’re not on here!” said Harry, after scanning the 
bottom of the tree. 

“I used to be there,” said Sirius, pointing at a small, 
round, charred hole in the tapestry, rather like a 
cigarette burn. “My sweet old mother blasted me off 
after I ran away from home — Kreacher’s quite fond of 
muttering the story under his breath.” 

“You ran away from home?” 

“When I was about sixteen,” said Sirius. “I’d had 
enough.” 

“Where did you go?” asked Harry, staring at him. 

“Your dad’s place,” said Sirius. “Your grandparents 
were really good about it; they sort of adopted me as a 
second son. Yeah, I camped out at your dad’s during 
the school holidays, and then when I was seventeen I 
got a place of my own, my Uncle Alphard had left me 
a decent bit of gold — he’s been wiped off here too, 
that’s probably why — anyway, after that I looked 
after myself. I was always welcome at Mr. and Mrs. 
Potter’s for Sunday lunch, though.” 

“But . . . why did you ... ?” 

“Leave?” Sirius smiled bitterly and ran a hand 
through his long, unkempt hair. “Because I hated the 
whole lot of them: my parents, with their pure-blood 
mania, convinced that to be a Black made you 
practically royal . . . my idiot brother, soft enough to 
believe them ... that’s him.” 



Page | 144Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius jabbed a finger at the very bottom of the tree, 
at the name REGULUS BLACK. A date of death (some 
fifteen years previously) followed the date of birth. 

“He was younger than me,” said Sirius, “and a much 
better son, as I was constantly reminded.” 

“But he died,” said Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Sirius. “Stupid idiot ... he joined the 
Death Eaters.” 

“You’re kidding!” 

“Come on, Harry, haven’t you seen enough of this 
house to tell what kind of wizards my family were?” 
said Sirius testily. 

“Were — were your parents Death Eaters as well?” 

“No, no, but believe me, they thought Voldemort had 
the right idea, they were all for the purification of the 
Wizarding race, getting rid of Muggle-borns and 
having purebloods in charge. They weren’t alone 
either, there were quite a few people, before 
Voldemort showed his true colors, who thought he 
had the right idea about things... They got cold feet 
when they saw what he was prepared to do to get 
power, though. But I bet my parents thought Regulus 
was a right little hero for joining up at first.” 

“Was he killed by an Auror?” Harry asked tentatively. 

“Oh no,” said Sirius. “No, he was murdered by 
Voldemort. Or on Voldemort’s orders, more likely, I 
doubt Regulus was ever important enough to be killed 
by Voldemort in person. From what I found out after 
he died, he got in so far, then panicked about what he 
was being asked to do and tried to back out. Well, you 
Page | 145Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




don’t just hand in your resignation to Voldemort. It’s 
a lifetime of service or death.” 

“Lunch,” said Mrs. Weasley’s voice. 

She was holding her wand high in front of her, 
balancing a huge tray loaded with sandwiches and 
cake on its tip. She was very red in the face and still 
looked angry. The others moved over to her, eager for 
some food, but Harry remained with Sirius, who had 
bent closer to the tapestry. 

“I haven’t looked at this for years. There’s Phineas 
Nigellus ... my great-great-grandfather, see? Least 
popular headmaster Hogwarts ever had . . . and 
Araminta Meliflua . . . cousin of my mother’s . . . tried to 
force through a Ministry Bill to make Muggle-hunting 
legal . . . and dear Aunt Elladora . . . she started the 
family tradition of beheading house-elves when they 
got too old to carry tea trays ... of course, anytime the 
family produced someone halfway decent they were 
disowned. I see Tonks isn’t on here. Maybe that’s why 
Kreacher won’t take orders from her — he’s supposed 
to do whatever anyone in the family asks him...” 

“You and Tonks are related?” Harry asked, surprised. 

“Oh yeah, her mother, Andromeda, was my favorite 
cousin,” said Sirius, examining the tapestry carefully. 
“No, Andromeda’s not on here either, look — ” 

He pointed to another small round burn mark 
between two names, Bellatrix and Narcissa. 

“Andromeda’s sisters are still here because they made 
lovely, respectable pure-blood marriages, but 
Andromeda married a Muggle-born, Ted Tonks, so — ” 



Page | 146Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius mimed blasting the tapestry with a wand and 
laughed sourly. Harry, however, did not laugh; he was 
too busy staring at the names to the right of 
Andromeda’s burn mark. A double line of gold 
embroidery linked Narcissa Black with Lucius Malfoy, 
and a single vertical gold line from their names led to 
the name Draco. 

“You’re related to the Malfoys!” 

“The pure-blood families are all interrelated,” said 
Sirius. “If you’re only going to let your sons and 
daughters marry purebloods your choice is very 
limited, there are hardly any of us left. Molly and I are 
cousins by marriage and Arthur’s something like my 
second cousin once removed. But there’s no point 
looking for them on here — if ever a family was a 
bunch of blood traitors it’s the Weasleys.” 

But Harry was now looking at the name to the left of 
Andromeda’s burn: Bellatrix Black, which was 
connected by a double line to Rodolphus Lestrange. 

“Lestrange ...” Harry said aloud. The name had 
stirred something in his memory; he knew it from 
somewhere, but for a moment he couldn’t think 
where, though it gave him an odd, creeping sensation 
in the pit of his stomach. 

“They’re in Azkaban,” said Sirius shortly. 

Harry looked at him curiously. 

“Bellatrix and her husband Rodolphus came in with 
Barty Crouch, Junior,” said Sirius in the same 
brusque voice. “Rodolphus ’s brother, Rabastan, was 
with them too.” 



Page | 147Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And Harry remembered: He had seen Bellatrix 
Lestrange inside Dumbledore’s Pensieve, the strange 
device in which thoughts and memories could be 
stored: a tall dark woman with heavy-lidded eyes, 
who had stood at her trial and proclaimed her 
continuing allegiance to Lord Voldemort, her pride 
that she had tried to find him after his downfall and 
her conviction that she would one day be rewarded 
for her loyalty. 

“You never said she was your — ” 

“Does it matter if she’s my cousin?” snapped Sirius. 
“As far as I’m concerned, they’re not my family. She’s 
certainly not my family. I haven’t seen her since I was 
your age, unless you count a glimpse of her coming in 
to Azkaban. D’you think I’m proud of having relatives 
like her?” 

“Sorry,” said Harry quickly, “I didn’t mean — I was 
just surprised, that’s all — ” 

“It doesn’t matter, don’t apologize,” Sirius mumbled at 
once. He turned away from the tapestry, his hands 
deep in his pockets. “I don’t like being back here,” he 
said, staring across the drawing room. “I never 
thought I’d be stuck in this house again.” 

Harry understood completely. He knew how he would 
feel if forced, when he was grown up and thought he 
was free of the place forever, to return and live at 
number four, Privet Drive. 

“It’s ideal for headquarters, of course,” Sirius said. 

“My father put every security measure known to 
Wizard-kind on it when he lived here. It’s Unplottable, 
so Muggles could never come and call — as if they’d 
have wanted to — and now Dumbledore’s added his 
protection, you’d be hard put to find a safer house 
Page | 148Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




anywhere. Dumbledore’s Secret-Keeper for the Order, 
you know — nobody can find headquarters unless he 
tells them personally where it is — that note Moody 
showed you last night, that was from Dumbledore...” 
Sirius gave a short, barklike laugh. “If my parents 
could see the use it was being put to now ... well, my 
mother’s portrait should give you some idea...” 

He scowled for a moment, then sighed. 

“I wouldn’t mind if I could just get out occasionally 
and do something useful. I’ve asked Dumbledore 
whether I can escort you to your hearing — as 
Snuffles, obviously — so I can give you a bit of moral 
support, what d’you think?” 

Harry felt as though his stomach had sunk through 
the dusty carpet. He had not thought about the 
hearing once since dinner the previous evening; in the 
excitement of being back with the people he liked 
best, of hearing everything that was going on, it had 
completely flown his mind. At Sirius’s words, 
however, the crushing sense of dread returned to 
him. He stared at Hermione and the Weasleys, all 
tucking into their sandwiches, and thought how he 
would feel if they went back to Hogwarts without him. 

“Don’t worry,” Sirius said. Harry looked up and 
realized that Sirius had been watching him. “I’m sure 
they’re going to clear you, there’s definitely something 
in the International Statute of Secrecy about being 
allowed to use magic to save your own life.” 

“But if they do expel me,” said Harry, quietly, “can I 
come back here and live with you?” 

Sirius smiled sadly. 

“We’ll see.” 

Page | 149Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I’d feel a lot better about the hearing if I knew I didn’t 
have to go back to the Dursleys,” Harry pressed him. 



“They must be bad if you prefer this place,” said 
Sirius gloomily. 

“Hurry up, you two, or there won’t be any food left,” 
Mrs. Weasley called. 

Sirius heaved another great sigh, cast a dark look at 
the tapestry, and he and Harry went to join the 
others. 

Harry tried his best not to think about the hearing 
while they emptied the glass cabinets that afternoon. 
Fortunately for him, it was a job that required a lot of 
concentration, as many of the objects in there seemed 
very reluctant to leave their dusty shelves. Sirius 
sustained a bad bite from a silver snuffbox; within 
seconds, his bitten hand had developed an 
unpleasant crusty covering like a tough brown glove. 

“It’s okay,” he said, examining the hand with interest 
before tapping it lightly with his wand and restoring 
its skin to normal, “must be Wartcap powder in 
there.” 

He threw the box aside into the sack where they were 
depositing the debris from the cabinets; Harry saw 
George wrap his own hand carefully in a cloth 
moments later and sneak the box into his already 
doxy-filled pocket. 

They found an unpleasant-looking silver instrument, 
something like a many-legged pair of tweezers, which 
scuttled up Harry’s arm like a spider when he picked 
it up, and attempted to puncture his skin; Sirius 
seized it and smashed it with a heavy book entitled 
Nature’s Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. There was a 
Page | 150Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




musical box that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling 
tune when wound, and they all found themselves 
becoming curiously weak and sleepy until Ginny had 
the sense to slam the lid shut; also a heavy locket 
that none of them could open, a number of ancient 
seals and, in a dusty box, an Order of Merlin, First 
Class, that had been awarded to Sirius’s grandfather 
for “Services to the Ministry.” 

“It means he gave them a load of gold,” said Sirius 
contemptuously, throwing the medal into the rubbish 
sack. 

Several times, Kreacher sidled into the room and 
attempted to smuggle things away under his 
loincloth, muttering horrible curses every time they 
caught him at it. When Sirius wrested a large golden 
ring bearing the Black crest from his grip Kreacher 
actually burst into furious tears and left the room 
sobbing under his breath and calling Sirius names 
Harry had never heard before. 

“It was my father’s,” said Sirius, throwing the ring 
into the sack. “Kreacher wasn’t quite as devoted to 
him as to my mother, but I still caught him snogging 
a pair of my father’s old trousers last week.” 

Mrs. Weasley kept them all working very hard over 
the next few days. The drawing room took three days 
to decontaminate; finally the only undesirable things 
left in it were the tapestry of the Black family tree, 
which resisted all their attempts to remove it from the 
wall, and the rattling writing desk; Moody had not 
dropped by headquarters yet, so they could not be 
sure what was inside it. 

They moved from the drawing room to a dining room 
on the ground floor where they found spiders large as 
saucers lurking in the dresser (Ron left the room 

Page | 151Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hurriedly to make a cup of tea and did not return for 
an hour and a half) . The china, which bore the Black 
crest and motto, was all thrown unceremoniously into 
a sack by Sirius, and the same fate met a set of old 
photographs in tarnished silver frames, all of whose 
occupants squealed shrilly as the glass covering them 
smashed. 

Snape might refer to their work as “cleaning,” but in 
Harry’s opinion they were really waging war on the 
house, which was putting up a very good fight, aided 
and abetted by Kreacher. The house-elf kept 
appearing wherever they were congregated, his 
muttering becoming more and more offensive as he 
attempted to remove anything he could from the 
rubbish sacks. Sirius went as far as to threaten him 
with clothes, but Kreacher fixed him with a watery 
stare and said, “Master must do as Master wishes,” 
before turning away and muttering very loudly, “but 
Master will not turn Kreacher away, no, because 
Kreacher knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is 
plotting against the Dark Lord, yes, with these 
Mudbloods and traitors and scum...” 

At which Sirius, ignoring Hermione’s protests, seized 
Kreacher by the back of his loincloth and threw him 
bodily from the room. 

The doorbell rang several times a day, which was the 
cue for Sirius’s mother to start shrieking again, and 
for Harry and the others to attempt to eavesdrop on 
the visitor, though they gleaned very little from the 
brief glimpses and snatches of conversation they were 
able to sneak before Mrs. Weasley recalled them to 
their tasks. Snape flitted in and out of the house 
several times more, though to Harry’s relief they never 
came face-to-face; he also caught sight of his 
Transfiguration teacher, Professor McGonagall, 



Page | 152Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




looking very odd in a Muggle dress and coat, though 
she also seemed too busy to linger. 

Sometimes, however, the visitors stayed to help; 

Tonks joined them for a memorable afternoon in 
which they found a murderous old ghoul lurking in 
an upstairs toilet, and Lupin, who was staying in the 
house with Sirius but who left it for long periods to do 
mysterious work for the Order, helped them repair a 
grandfather clock that had developed the unpleasant 
habit of shooting heavy bolts at passersby. 
Mundungus redeemed himself slightly in Mrs. 
Weasley’s eyes by rescuing Ron from an ancient set of 
purple robes that had tried to strangle him when he 
removed them from their wardrobe. 

Despite the fact that he was still sleeping badly, still 
having dreams about corridors and locked doors that 
made his scar prickle, Harry was managing to have 
fun for the first time all summer. As long as he was 
busy he was happy; when the action abated, however, 
whenever he dropped his guard, or lay exhausted in 
bed watching blurred shadows move across the 
ceiling, the thought of the looming Ministry hearing 
returned to him. Fear jabbed at his insides like 
needles as he wondered what was going to happen to 
him if he was expelled. The idea was so terrible that 
he did not dare voice it aloud, not even to Ron and 
Hermione, who, though he often saw them whispering 
together and casting anxious looks in his direction, 
followed his lead in not mentioning it. Sometimes he 
could not prevent his imagination showing him a 
faceless Ministry official who was snapping his wand 
in two and ordering him back to the Dursleys’ ... but 
he would not go. He was determined on that. He 
would come back here to Grimmauld Place and live 
with Sirius. 



Page | 153Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He felt as though a brick had dropped into his 
stomach when Mrs. Weasley turned to him during 
dinner on Wednesday evening and said quietly, “I’ve 
ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, 

Harry, and I want you to wash your hair tonight too. 

A good first impression can work wonders.” 

Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny all stopped 
talking and looked over at him. Harry nodded and 
tried to keep eating his chops, but his mouth had 
become so dry he could not chew. 

“How am I getting there?” he asked Mrs. Weasley, 
trying to sound unconcerned. 

“Arthur’s taking you to work with him,” said Mrs. 
Weasley gently. 

Mr. Weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry across the 
table. 

“You can wait in my office until it’s time for the 
hearing,” he said. 

Harry looked over at Sirius, but before he could ask 
the question, Mrs. Weasley had answered it. 

“Professor Dumbledore doesn’t think it’s a good idea 
for Sirius to go with you, and I must say I — ” 

“ — think he’s quite right,” said Sirius through 
clenched teeth. 

Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips. 

“When did Dumbledore tell you that?” Harry said, 
staring at Sirius. 



Page | 154Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“He came last night, when you were in bed,” said Mr. 
Weasley. 

Sirius stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork. 
Harry dropped his own eyes to his plate. The thought 
that Dumbledore had been in the house on the eve of 
his hearing and not asked to see him made him feel, 
if that were possible, even worse. 



Page | 155Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




7 




THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC 

Harry awoke at half-past five the next morning as 
abruptly and completely as if somebody had yelled in 
his ear. For a few moments he lay immobile as the 
prospect of the hearing filled every tiny particle of his 
brain, then, unable to bear it, he leapt out of bed and 
put on his glasses. Mrs. Weasley had laid out his 
freshly laundered jeans and T-shirt at the foot of his 
bed. Harry scrambled into them. The blank picture on 
the wall sniggered again. 

Ron was lying sprawled on his back with his mouth 
wide open, fast asleep. He did not stir as Harry 
crossed the room, stepped out onto the landing, and 
closed the door softly behind him. Trying not to think 
of the next time he would see Ron, when they might 
no longer be fellow students at Hogwarts, Harry 
walked quietly down the stairs, past the heads of 
Kreacher’s ancestors, and into the kitchen. 

He had expected it to be empty, but it was not. When 
he reached the door he heard the soft rumble of 
voices on the other side and when he pushed it open 

Page | 156Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



he saw Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, Sirius, Lupin, and 
Tonks sitting there almost as though they were 
waiting for him. All were fully dressed except Mrs. 
Weasley, who was wearing a quilted, purple dressing 
gown. She leapt to her feet the moment he entered. 

“Breakfast,” she said as she pulled out her wand and 
hurried over to the fire. 

“M-m-morning, Harry,” yawned Tonks. Her hair was 
blonde and curly this morning. “Sleep all right?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“I’ve b-b-been up all night,” she said, with another 
shuddering yawn. “Come and sit down...” 

She drew out a chair, knocking over the one beside it 
in the process. 

“What do you want, Harry?” Mrs. Weasley called. 
“Porridge? Muffins? Kippers? Bacon and eggs? 

Toast?” 

“Just — just toast, thanks,” said Harry. 

Lupin glanced at Harry, then said to Tonks, “What 
were you saying about Scrimgeour?” 

“Oh ... yeah ... well, we need to be a bit more careful, 
he’s been asking Kingsley and me funny questions...” 

Harry felt vaguely grateful that he was not required to 
join in the conversation. His insides were squirming. 
Mrs. Weasley placed a couple of pieces of toast and 
marmalade in front of him; he tried to eat, but it was 
like chewing carpet. Mrs. Weasley sat down on his 
other side and started fussing with his T-shirt, 



Page | 157Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




tucking in the label and smoothing out creases across 
the shoulders. He wished she wouldn’t. 

"... and I’ll have to tell Dumbledore I can’t do night 
duty tomorrow, I’m just t-t-too tired,” Tonks finished, 
yawning hugely again. 

“I’ll cover for you,” said Mr. Weasley. “I’m okay, I’ve 
got a report to finish anyway...” 

Mr. Weasley was not wearing wizard’s robes but a 
pair of pinstriped trousers and an old bomber jacket. 
He turned from Tonks to Harry. 

“How are you feeling?” 

Harry shrugged. 

“It’ll all be over soon,” Mr. Weasley said bracingly. “In 
a few hours’ time you’ll be cleared.” 

Harry said nothing. 

“The hearing’s on my floor, in Amelia Bones ’s office. 
She’s Head of the Department of Magical Law 
Enforcement and she’s the one who’ll be questioning 
you.” 

“Amelia Bones is okay, Harry,” said Tonks earnestly. 
“She’s fair, she’ll hear you out.” 

Harry nodded, still unable to think of anything to say. 

“Don’t lose your temper,” said Sirius abruptly. “Be 
polite and stick to the facts.” 

Harry nodded again. 



Page | 158Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 


