sock feet, so as not to awaken the ghosts. In the study,
where I had my tea with President Snow, I find a box with
my father's hunting jacket, our plant book, my parents'
wedding photo, the spile Haymitch sent in, and the locket
Peeta gave me in the clock arena. The two bows and a
sheath of arrows Gale rescued on the night of the
firebombing lie on the desk. I put on the hunting jacket and
leave the rest of the stuff untouched. I fall asleep on the sofa
in the formal living room. A terrible nightmare follows, where
I'm lying at the bottom of a deep grave, and every dead
person I know by name comes by and throws a shovel full of
ashes on me. It's quite a long dream, considering the list of
people, and the deeper I'm buried, the harder it is to
breathe. I try to call out, begging them to stop, but the ashes
fill my mouth and nose and I can't make any sound. Still the
shovel scrapes on and on and on....
I wake with a start. Pale morning light comes around
the edges of the shutters. The scraping of the shovel
continues. Still half in the nightmare, I run down the hall, out
the front door, and around the side of the house, because
now I'm pretty sure I can scream at the dead. When I see
him, I pull up short. His face is flushed from digging up the
ground under the windows. In a wheelbarrow are five
scraggly bushes.
"You're back," I say.
"Dr. Aurelius wouldn't let me leave the Capitol until
yesterday," Peeta says. "By the way, he said to tell you he
can't keep pretending he's treating you forever. You have to
pick up the phone."
He looks well. Thin and covered with burn scars like
me, but his eyes have lost that clouded, tortured look. He's
frowning slightly, though, as he takes me in. I make a
halfhearted effort to push my hair out of my eyes and realize
it's matted into clumps. I feel defensive. "What are you
doing?"
"I went to the woods this morning and dug these up.
For her," he says. "I thought we could plant them along the
side of the house."
I look at the bushes, the clods of dirt hanging from their
roots, and catch my breath as the word rose registers. I'm
about to yell vicious things at Peeta when the full name
comes to me. Not plain rose but evening primrose. The
flower my sister was named for. I give Peeta a nod of
assent and hurry back into the house, locking the door
behind me. But the evil thing is inside, not out. Trembling
with weakness and anxiety, I run up the stairs. My foot
catches on the last step and I crash onto the floor. I force
myself to rise and enter my room. The smell's very faint but
still laces the air. It's there. The white rose among the dried
flowers in the vase. Shriveled and fragile, but holding on to
that unnatural perfection cultivated in Snow's greenhouse. I
grab the vase, stumble down to the kitchen, and throw its
contents into the embers. As the flowers flare up, a burst of
blue flame envelops the rose and devours it. Fire beats
roses again. I smash the vase on the floor for good
measure.
Back upstairs, I throw open the bedroom windows to
clear out the rest of Snow's stench. But it still lingers, on my
clothes and in my pores. I strip, and flakes of skin the size
of playing cards cling to the garments. Avoiding the mirror, I
step into the shower and scrub the roses from my hair, my
body, my mouth. Bright pink and tingling, I find something
clean to wear. It takes half an hour to comb out my hair.
Greasy Sae unlocks the front door. While she makes
breakfast, I feed the clothes I had shed to the fire. At her
suggestion, I pare off my nails with a knife.
Over the eggs, I ask her, "Where did Gale go?"
"District Two. Got some fancy job there. I see him now
and again on the television," she says.
I dig around inside myself, trying to register anger,
hatred, longing. I find only relief.
"I'm going hunting today," I say.
"Well, I wouldn't mind some fresh game at that," she
answers.
I arm myself with a bow and arrows and head out,
intending to exit 12 through the Meadow. Near the square
are teams of masked and gloved people with horse-drawn
carts. Sifting through what lay under the snow this winter.
Gathering remains. A cart's parked in front of the mayor's
house. I recognize Thom, Gale's old crewmate, pausing a
moment to wipe the sweat from his face with a rag. I
remember seeing him in 13, but he must have come back.
His greeting gives me the courage to ask, "Did they find
anyone in there?"
"Whole family. And the two people who worked for
them," Thom tells me.
Madge. Quiet and kind and brave. The girl who gave
me the pin that gave me a name. I swallow hard. Wonder if
she'll be joining the cast of my nightmares tonight.
Shoveling the ashes into my mouth. "I thought maybe, since
he was the mayor..."
"I don't think being the mayor of Twelve put the odds in
his favor," says Thom.
I nod and keep moving, careful not to look in the back
of the cart. All through the town and the Seam, it's the
same. The reaping of the dead. As I near the ruins of my
old house, the road becomes thick with carts. The
Meadow's gone, or at least dramatically altered. A deep pit
has been dug, and they're lining it with bones, a mass
grave for my people. I skirt around the hole and enter the
woods at my usual place. It doesn't matter, though. The
fence isn't charged anymore and has been propped up with
long branches to keep out the predators. But old habits die
hard. I think about going to the lake, but I'm so weak that I
barely make it to my meeting place with Gale. I sit on the
rock where Cressida filmed us, but it's too wide without his
body beside me. Several times I close my eyes and count
to ten, thinking that when I open them, he will have
materialized without a sound as he so often did. I have to
remind myself that Gale's in 2 with a fancy job, probably
kissing another pair of lips.
It is the old Katniss's favorite kind of day. Early spring.
The woods awakening after the long winter. But the spurt of
energy that began with the primroses fades away. By the
time I make it back to the fence, I'm so sick and dizzy,
Thom has to give me a ride home in the dead people's
cart. Help me to the sofa in the living room, where I watch
the dust motes spin in the thin shafts of afternoon light.
My head snaps around at the hiss, but it takes awhile
to believe he's real. How could he have gotten here? I take
in the claw marks from some wild animal, the back paw he
holds slightly above the ground, the prominent bones in his
face. He's come on foot, then, all the way from 13. Maybe
they kicked him out or maybe he just couldn't stand it there
without her, so he came looking.
"It was the waste of a trip. She's not here," I tell him.
Buttercup hisses again. "She's not here. You can hiss all
you like. You won't find Prim." At her name, he perks up.
Raises his flattened ears. Begins to meow hopefully. "Get
out!" He dodges the pillow I throw at him. "Go away!
There's nothing left for you here!" I start to shake, furious
with him. "She's not coming back! She's never ever coming
back here again!" I grab another pillow and get to my feet
to improve my aim. Out of nowhere, the tears begin to pour
down my cheeks. "She's dead." I clutch my middle to dull
the pain. Sink down on my heels, rocking the pillow, crying.
"She's dead, you stupid cat. She's dead." A new sound,
part crying, part singing, comes out of my body, giving
voice to my despair. Buttercup begins to wail as well. No
matter what I do, he won't go. He circles me, just out of
reach, as wave after wave of sobs racks my body, until
eventually I fall unconscious. But he must understand. He
must know that the unthinkable has happened and to
survive will require previously unthinkable acts. Because
hours later, when I come to in my bed, he's there in the
moonlight. Crouched beside me, yellow eyes alert,
guarding me from the night.
In the morning, he sits stoically as I clean the cuts, but
digging the thorn from his paw brings on a round of those
kitten mews. We both end up crying again, only this time we
comfort each other. On the strength of this, I open the letter
Haymitch gave me from my mother, dial the phone number,
and weep with her as well. Peeta, bearing a warm loaf of
bread, shows up with Greasy Sae. She makes us breakfast
and I feed all my bacon to Buttercup.
Slowly, with many lost days, I come back to life. I try to
follow Dr. Aurelius's advice, just going through the motions,
amazed when one finally has meaning again. I tell him my
idea about the book, and a large box of parchment sheets
arrives on the next train from the Capitol.
I got the idea from our family's plant book. The place
where we recorded those things you cannot trust to
memory. The page begins with the person's picture. A
photo if we can find it. If not, a sketch or painting by Peeta.
Then, in my most careful handwriting, come all the details it
would be a crime to forget. Lady licking Prim's cheek. My
father's laugh. Peeta's father with the cookies. The color of
Finnick's eyes. What Cinna could do with a length of silk.
Boggs reprogramming the Holo. Rue poised on her toes,
arms slightly extended, like a bird about to take flight. On
and on. We seal the pages with salt water and promises to
live well to make their deaths count. Haymitch finally joins
us, contributing twenty-three years of tributes he was forced
to mentor. Additions become smaller. An old memory that
surfaces. A late primrose preserved between the pages.
Strange bits of happiness, like the photo of Finnick and
Annie's newborn son.
We learn to keep busy again. Peeta bakes. I hunt.
Haymitch drinks until the liquor runs out, and then raises
geese until the next train arrives. Fortunately, the geese can
take pretty good care of themselves. We're not alone. A
few hundred others return because, whatever has
happened, this is our home. With the mines closed, they
plow the ashes into the earth and plant food. Machines from
the Capitol break ground for a new factory where we will
make medicines. Although no one seeds it, the Meadow
turns green again.
Peeta and I grow back together. There are still
moments when he clutches the back of a chair and hangs
on until the flashbacks are over. I wake screaming from
nightmares of mutts and lost children. But his arms are
there to comfort me. And eventually his lips. On the night I
feel that thing again, the hunger that overtook me on the
beach, I know this would have happened anyway. That what
I need to survive is not Gale's fire, kindled with rage and
hatred. I have plenty of fire myself. What I need is the
dandelion in the spring. The bright yellow that means rebirth
instead of destruction. The promise that life can go on, no
matter how bad our losses. That it can be good again. And
only Peeta can give me that.
So after, when he whispers, "You love me. Real or not
real?"
I tell him, "Real."
EPILOGUE
They play in the Meadow. The dancing girl with the
dark hair and blue eyes. The boy with blond curls and gray
eyes, struggling to keep up with her on his chubby toddler
legs. It took five, ten, fifteen years for me to agree. But
Peeta wanted them so badly. When I first felt her stirring
inside of me, I was consumed with a terror that felt as old
as life itself. Only the joy of holding her in my arms could
tame it. Carrying him was a little easier, but not much.
The questions are just beginning. The arenas have
been completely destroyed, the memorials built, there are
no more Hunger Games. But they teach about them at
school, and the girl knows we played a role in them. The
boy will know in a few years. How can I tell them about that
world without frightening them to death? My children, who
take the words of the song for granted:
Deep in the meadow, under the willow
A bed of grass, a soft green pillow
Lay down your head, and close your sleepy
eyes
And when again they open, the sun will rise.
Here it's safe, here it's warm
Here the daisies guard you from every harm
Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow
brings them true
Here is the place where I love you.
My children, who don't know they play on a graveyard.
Peeta says it will be okay. We have each other. And
the book. We can make them understand in a way that will
make them braver. But one day I'll have to explain about my
nightmares. Why they came. Why they won't ever really go
away.
I'll tell them how I survive it. I'll tell them that on bad
mornings, it feels impossible to take pleasure in anything
because I'm afraid it could be taken away. That's when I
make a list in my head of every act of goodness I've seen
someone do. It's like a game. Repetitive. Even a little
tedious after more than twenty years.
But there are much worse games to play.
THE END
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I would like to pay tribute to the following people who
gave their time, talent, and support to The Hunger Games.
First off, I must thank my extraordinary triumvirate of
editors. Kate Egan, whose insight, humor, and intelligence
have guided me through eight novels; Jen Rees, whose
clear vision catches the things the rest of us miss; and
David Levithan, who moves so effortlessly through his
multiple roles of Note Giver, Title Master, and Editorial
Director.
Through rough drafts, food poisoning, every up and
down, you are there with me, Rosemary Stimola, equal
parts gifted creative advisor and professional guardian, my
literary agent and my friend. And Jason Dravis, my longtime
entertainment agent, I feel so lucky to have you watching
over me as we head for the screen.
Thanks to designer Elizabeth B. Parisi and artist Tim
O'Brien for the beautiful book jackets that so successfully
captured both the mockingjays and people's attention.
All hail the incredible team at Scholastic for getting
The Hunger Games out into the world: Sheila Marie Everett,
Tracy van Straaten, Rachel Coun, Leslie Garych, Adrienne
Vrettos, Nick Martin, Jacky Harper, Lizette Serrano,
Kathleen Donohoe, John Mason, Stephanie Nooney, Karyn
Browne, Joy Simpkins, Jess White, Dick Robinson, Ellie
Berger, Suzanne Murphy, Andrea Davis Pinkney, the entire
Scholastic sales force, and the many others who have
devoted so much energy, smarts, and savvy to this series.
To the five writer-friends I rely on most heavily, Richard
Register, Mary Beth Bass, Christopher Santos, Peter
Bakalian, and James Proimos, much gratitude for your
advice, perspective, and laughter.
Special love to my late father, Michael Collins, who laid
the groundwork for this series with his deep commitment to
educating his children on war and peace, and my mother,
Jane Collins, who introduced me to the Greeks, sci-fi, and
fashion (although that last one didn't stick); my sisters,
Kathy and Joanie; my brother, Drew; my in-laws, Dixie and
Charles Pryor; and the many members of my extended
family whose enthusiasm and support have kept me going.
And finally, I turn to my husband, Cap Pryor, who read
The Hunger Games in its earliest draft, insisted on
answers to questions I hadn't even imagined, and remained
my sounding board through the entire series. Thanks to him
and my wonderful kids, Charlie and Isabel, for their daily
love, their patience, and the joy they bring me.



ABOUT THE AUTHOR
SUZANNE COLLINS is the author of the bestselling
Underland Chronicles series, which started with Gregor the
Overlander. Her groundbreaking young adult novels, The
Hunger Games and Catching Fire, were both New York
Times bestsellers, received wide praise, and garnered
numerous starred reviews. Suzanne lives with her family in
Connecticut. You can find her online at
www.suzannecollinsbooks.com.


