else is there to see us cross to the tribute elevator. Our footsteps echo in the emptiness. And when we ride up to the twelfth floor, the faces of all the tributes who will never return flash across my mind and theres a heavy, tight place in my chest. When the elevator doors open, Venia, Flavius, and Octavia engulf me, talking so quickly and ecstatically I cant make out their words. The sentiment is clear though. They are truly thrilled to see me and Im happy to see them, too, although not like I was to see Cinna. Its more in the way one might be glad to see an affectionate trio of pets at the end of a particularly difficult day. They sweep me into the dining room and I get a real meal roast beef and peas and soft rolls although my portions are still being strictly controlled. Because when I ask for seconds, Im refused. No, no, no. They dont want it all coming back up on the stage, says Octavia, but she secretly slips me an extra roll under the table to let me know shes on my side. We go back to my room and Cinna disappears for a while as the prep team gets me ready. Oh, they did a full body polish on you, says Flavius enviously. Not a flaw left on your skin. But when I look at my naked body in the mirror, all I can see is how skinny I am. I mean, Im sure I was worse when I came out of the arena, but I can easily count my ribs. They take

care of the shower settings for me, and they go to work on my hair, nails, and makeup when Im done. They chatter so continuously that I barely have to reply, which is good, since I dont feel very talkative. Its funny, because even though theyre rattling on about the Games, its all about where they were or what they were doing or how they felt when a specific event occurred. I was still in bed! I had just had my eyebrows dyed! I swear I nearly fainted! Everything is about them, not the dying boys and girls in the arena. We dont wallow around in the Games this way in District 12. We grit our teeth and watch because we must and try to get back to business as soon as possible when theyre over. To keep from hating the prep team, I effectively tune out most of what theyre saying. Cinna comes in with what appears to be an unassuming yellow dress across his arms. Have you given up the whole girl on fire thing? I ask. You tell me, he says, and slips it over my head. I immediately notice the padding over my breasts, adding curves that hunger has stolen from my body. My hands go to my chest and I frown. I know, says Cinna before I can object. But the Gamemakers wanted to alter you surgically. Haymitch had a huge fight with them over it. This was the compromise. He stops me before I can look at my reflection.

Wait, dont forget the shoes. Venia helps me into a pair of flat leather sandals and I

turn to the mirror. I am still the girl on fire. The sheer fabric softly glows. Even the slight movement in the air sends a ripple up my body. By comparison, the chariot costume seems garish, the interview dress too contrived. In this dress, I give the illusion of wearing candlelight. What do you think? asks Cinna. I think its the best yet, I say. When I manage to pull my eyes away from the flickering fabric, Im in for something of a shock. My hairs loose, held back by a simple hairband. The makeup rounds and fills out the sharp angles of my face. A clear polish coats my nails. The sleeveless dress is gathered at my ribs, not my waist, largely eliminating any help the padding would have given my figure. The hem falls just to my knees. Without heels, you can see my true stature. I look, very simply, like a girl. A young one. Fourteen at the most. Innocent. Harmless. Yes, it is shocking that Cinna has pulled this off when you remember Ive just won the Games. This is a very calculated look. Nothing Cinna designs is arbitrary. I bite my lip trying to figure out his motivation. I thought itd be something more . . . Sophisticated-looking, I say. I thought Peeta would like this

better, he answers carefully. Peeta? No, its not about Peeta. Its about the Capitol and the Gamemakers and the audience. Although I do not yet understand Cinnas design, its a reminder the Games are not quite finished. And beneath his benign reply, I sense a warning. Of something he cant even mention in front of his own team. We take the elevator to the level where we trained. Its customary for the victor and his or her support team to rise from beneath the stage. First the prep team, followed by the escort, the stylist, the mentor, and finally the victor. Only this year, with two victors who share both an escort and a mentor, the whole thing has had to be rethought. I find myself in a poorly lit area under the stage. A brand-new metal plate has been installed to transport me upward. You can still see small piles of sawdust, smell fresh paint. Cinna and the prep team peel off to change into their own costumes and take their positions, leaving me alone. In the gloom, I see a makeshift wall about ten yards away and assume Peetas behind it. The rumbling of the crowd is loud, so I dont notice Haymitch until he touches my shoulder. I spring away, startled, still half in the arena, I guess. Easy, just me. Lets have a look at you, Haymitch says. I hold out my arms and turn once. Good enough. Its not much of a

compliment. But what? I say. Haymitchs eyes shift around my musty holding space, and he seems to make a decision. But nothing. How about a hug for luck? Okay, thats an odd request from Haymitch but, after all, we are victors. Maybe a hug for luck is in order. Only, when I put my arms around his neck, I find myself trapped in his embrace. He begins talking, very fast, very quietly in my ear, my hair concealing his lips. Listen up. Youre in trouble. Word is the Capitols furious about

you showing them up in the arena. The one thing they cant stand is being laughed at and theyre the joke of Panem, says Haymitch. I feel dread coursing through me now, but I laugh as though Haymitch is saying something completely delightful because nothing is covering my mouth. So, what? Your only defense can be you were so madly in love you werent responsible for your actions. Haymitch pulls back and adjusts my hairband. Got it, sweetheart? He could be talking about anything now. Got it, I say. Did you tell Peeta this? Dont have to, says Haymitch. Hes already there. But you think Im not? I say, taking the opportunity to straighten a bright red bow tie Cinna must have wrestled him into. Since when does it matter what I think?

says Haymitch. Better take our places. He leads me to the metal circle. This is your night, sweetheart. Enjoy it. He kisses me on the forehead and disappears into the gloom. I tug on my skirt, willing it to be longer, wanting it to cover the knocking in my knees. Then I realize its pointless. My whole bodys shaking like a leaf. Hopefully, it will be put down to excitement. After all, its my night. The damp, moldy smell beneath the stage threatens to choke me. A cold, clammy sweat breaks out on my skin and I cant rid myself of the feeling that the boards above my head are about to collapse, to bury me alive under the rubble. When I left the arena, when the trumpets played, I was supposed to be safe. From then on. For the rest of my life. But if what Haymitch says is true, and hes got no reason to lie, Ive never been in such a dangerous place in my life. Its so much worse than being hunted in the arena. There, I could only die. End of story. But out here Prim, my mother, Gale, the people of District 12, everyone I care about back home could be punished if I cant pull off the girl-driven-crazy-by-love scenario Haymitch has suggested. So I still have a chance, though. Funny, in the arena, when I poured out those berries, I was only thinking of outsmarting the Gamemakers, not how my actions would reflect on the Capitol. But

the Hunger Games are their weapon and you are not supposed to be able to defeat it. So now the Capitol will act as if theyve been in control the whole time. As if they orchestrated the whole event, right down to the double suicide. But that will only work if I play along with them. And Peeta . . . Peeta will suffer, too, if this goes wrong. But what was it Haymitch said when I asked if he had told Peeta the situation? That he had to pretend to be desperately in love? Dont have to. Hes already there. Already thinking ahead of me in the Games again and well aware of the danger were in? Or . . . Already desperately in love? I dont know. I havent even begun to separate out my feelings about Peeta. Its too complicated. What I did as part of the Games. As opposed to what I did out of anger at the Capitol. Or because of how it would be viewed back in District 12. Or simply because it was the only decent thing to do.

Or what I did because I cared about him. These are questions to be unraveled back home, in the peace and quiet of the woods, when no one is watching. Not here with every eye upon me. But I wont have that luxury for who knows how long. And right now, the most dangerous part of the Hunger Games is about to begin.

27.

The anthem booms in my ears, and then I hear Caesar Flickerman greeting the audience. Does he know how crucial it is to get every word right from now on? He must. He will want to help us. The crowd breaks into applause as the prep teams are presented. I imagine Flavius, Venia, and Octavia bouncing around and taking ridiculous, bobbing bows. Its a safe bet theyre clueless. Then Effies introduced. How long shes waited for this moment. I hope shes able to enjoy it because as misguided as Effie can be, she has a very keen instinct about certain things and must at least suspect were in trouble. Portia and Cinna receive huge cheers, of course, theyve been brilliant, had a dazzling debut. I now understand Cinnas choice of dress for me for tonight. Ill need to look as girlish and innocent as possible. Haymitchs appearance brings a round of stomping that goes on at least five minutes. Well, hes accomplished a first. Keeping not only one but two tributes alive. What if he hadnt warned me in time? Would I have acted differently? Flaunted the moment with the berries in the Capitols face? No, I dont think so. But I could easily have been a lot less convincing

than I need to be now. Right now. Because I can feel the plate lifting me up to the stage. Blinding lights. The deafening roar rattles the metal under my feet. Then theres Peeta just a few yards away. He looks so clean and healthy and beautiful, I can hardly recognize him. But his smile is the same whether in mud or in the Capitol and when I see it, I take about three steps and fling myself into his arms. He staggers back, almost losing his balance, and thats when I realize the slim, metal contraption in his hand is some kind of cane. He rights himself and we just cling to each other while the audience goes insane. Hes kissing me and all the time Im thinking, Do you know? Do you know how much danger were in? After about ten minutes of this, Caesar Flickerman taps on his shoulder to continue the show, and Peeta just pushes him aside without even glancing at him. The audience goes berserk. Whether he knows or not, Peeta is, as usual, playing the crowd exactly right. Finally, Haymitch interrupts us and gives us a good-natured shove toward the victors chair. Usually, this is a single, ornate chair from which the winning tribute watches a film of the highlights of the Games, but since there are two of us, the Gamemakers have provided a plush red velvet couch. A small one, my mother would call it a love seat, I think. I sit so close

to Peeta that Im practically on his lap, but one look from Haymitch tells me it isnt enough. Kicking off my sandals, I tuck my feet to the side and lean my head against

Peetas shoulder. His arm goes around me automatically, and I feel like Im back in the cave, curled up against him, trying to keep warm. His shirt is made of the same yellow material as my dress, but Portias put him in long black pants. No sandals, either, but a pair of sturdy black boots he keeps solidly planted on the stage. I wish Cinna had given me a similar outfit, I feel so vulnerable in this flimsy dress. But I guess that was the point. Caesar Flickerman makes a few more jokes, and then its time for the show. This will last exactly three hours and is required viewing for all of Panem. As the lights dim and the seal appears on the screen, I realize Im unprepared for this. I do not want to watch my twenty-two fellow tributes die. I saw enough of them die the first time. My heart starts pounding and I have a strong impulse to run. How have the other victors faced this alone? During the highlights, they periodically show the winners reaction up on a box in the corner of the screen. I think back to earlier years . . . Some are triumphant, pumping their fists in the air, beating their

chests. Most just seem stunned. All I know is that the only thing keeping me on this love seat is Peeta his arm around my shoulder, his other hand claimed by both of mine. Of course, the previous victors didnt have the Capitol looking for a way to destroy them. Condensing several weeks into three hours is quite a feat, especially when you consider how many cameras were going at once. Whoever puts together the highlights has to choose what sort of story to tell. This year, for the first time, they tell a love story. I know Peeta and I won, but a disproportionate amount of time is spent on us, right from the beginning. Im glad though, because it supports the whole crazy-in-love thing thats my defense for defying the Capitol, plus it means we wont have as much time to linger over the deaths. The first half hour or so focuses on the pre-arena events, the reaping, the chariot ride through the Capitol, our training scores, and our interviews. Theres this sort of upbeat soundtrack playing under it that makes it twice as awful because, of course, almost everyone on-screen is dead. Once were in the arena, theres detailed coverage of the bloodbath and then the filmmakers basically alternate between shots of tributes dying and shots of us. Mostly Peeta really, theres no question hes carrying this romance thing on his shoulders.

Now I see what the audience saw, how he misled the Careers about me, stayed awake the entire night under the tracker jacker tree, fought Cato to let me escape and even while he lay in that mud bank, whispered my name in his sleep. I seem heartless in comparison dodging fireballs, dropping nests, and blowing up supplies until I go hunting for Rue. They play her death in full, the spearing, my failed rescue attempt, my arrow through the boy from District 1s throat, Rue drawing her last breath in my arms. And the song. I get to sing every note of the song.

Something inside me shuts down and Im too numb to feel anything. Its like watching complete strangers in another Hunger Games. But I do notice they omit the part where I covered her in flowers. Right. Because even that smacks of rebellion. Things pick up for me once theyve announced two tributes from the same district can live and I shout out Peetas name and then clap my hands over my mouth. If Ive seemed indifferent to him earlier, I make up for it now, by finding him, nursing him back to health, going to the feast for the medicine, and being very free with my kisses. Objectively, I can see the mutts and Catos death are as gruesome as ever, but again, I

feel it happens to people I have never met. And then comes the moment with the berries. I can hear the audience hushing one another, not wanting to miss anything. A wave of gratitude to the filmmakers sweeps over me when they end not with the announcement of our victory, but with me pounding on the glass door of the hovercraft, screaming Peetas name as they try to revive him. In terms of survival, its my best moment all night. The anthems playing yet again and we rise as President Snow himself takes the stage followed by a little girl carrying a cushion that holds the crown. Theres just one crown, though, and you can hear the crowds confusion whose head will he place it on? until President Snow gives it a twist and it separates into two halves. He places the first around Peetas brow with a smile. Hes still smiling when he settles the second on my head, but his eyes, just inches from mine, are as unforgiving as a snakes. Thats when I know that even though both of us would have eaten the berries, I am to blame for having the idea. Im the instigator. Im the one to be punished. Much bowing and cheering follows. My arm is about to fall off from waving when Caesar Flickerman finally bids the audience good night, reminding them to tune in tomorrow for the final interviews. As if they have a choice. Peeta and I are whisked

to the presidents mansion for the Victory Banquet, where we have very little time to eat as Capitol officials and particularly generous sponsors elbow one another out of the way as they try to get their picture with us. Face after beaming face flashes by, becoming increasingly intoxicated as the evening wears on. Occasionally, I catch a glimpse of Haymitch, which is reassuring, or President Snow, which is terrifying, but I keep laughing and thanking people and smiling as my picture is taken. The one thing I never do is let go of Peetas hand. The sun is just peeking over the horizon when we straggle back to the twelfth floor of the Training Center. I think now Ill finally get a word alone with Peeta, but Haymitch sends him off with Portia to get something fitted for the interview and personally escorts me to my door. Why cant I talk to him? I ask. Plenty of time for talk when we get home, says Haymitch. Go to bed, youre on air at two. Despite Haymitchs running interference, Im

determined to see Peeta privately. After I toss and turn for a few hours, I slip into the hall. My first thought is to check the roof, but its empty. Even the city streets far below are deserted after the celebration last night. I go back to bed for a while and

then decide to go directly to his room, but when I try to turn the knob, I find my own bedroom door has been locked from the outside. I suspect Haymitch initially, but then theres a more insidious fear that the Capitol may by monitoring and confining me. Ive been unable to escape since the Hunger Games began, but this feels different, much more personal. This feels like Ive been imprisoned for a crime and Im awaiting sentencing. I quickly get back in bed and pretend to sleep until Effie Trinket comes to alert me to the start of another big, big, big day! I have about five minutes to eat a bowl of hot grain and stew before the prep team descends. All I have to say is, The crowd loved you! and its unnecessary to speak for the next couple of hours. When Cinna comes in, he shoos them out and dresses me in a white, gauzy dress and pink shoes. Then he personally adjusts my makeup until I seem to radiate a soft, rosy glow. We make idle chitchat, but Im afraid to ask him anything of real importance because after the incident with the door, I cant shake the feeling that Im being watched constantly. The interview takes place right down the hall in the sitting room. A space has been cleared and the love seat has been moved in and surrounded by vases of red and pink roses. There are only a handful of cameras to record the

event. No live audience at least. Caesar Flickerman gives me a warm hug when I. Come in. Congratulations, Katniss. How are you faring? Fine. Nervous about the interview, I say. Dont be. Were going to have a fabulous time, he says, giving my cheek a reassuring pat. Im not good at talking about myself, I say. Nothing you say will be wrong, he says. And I think, Oh, Caesar, if only that were true. But actually, President Snow may be arranging some sort of accident for me as we speak. Then Peetas there looking handsome in red and white, pulling me off to the side. I hardly get to see you. Haymitch seems bent on keeping us apart. Haymitch is actually bent on keeping us alive, but there are too many ears listening, so I just say, Yes, hes gotten very responsible lately. Well, theres just this and we go home. Then he cant watch us all the time, says Peeta. I feel a sort of shiver run through me and theres no time to analyze why, because theyre ready for us. We sit somewhat formally on the love seat, but Caesar says, Oh, go ahead and curl up next to him if you want. It looked very sweet. So I tuck my feet up and Peeta pulls me in close to him. Someone counts backward and just like that, were being broadcast live to the entire country. Caesar Flickerman is wonderful, teasing, joking, getting choked up when the occasion

presents itself. He and Peeta already have the rapport they established

that night of the first interview, that easy banter, so I just smile a lot and try to speak as little as possible. I mean, I have to talk some, but as soon as I can I redirect the conversation back to Peeta. Eventually though, Caesar begins to pose questions that insist on fuller answers. Well, Peeta, we know, from our days in the cave, that it was love at first sight for you from what, age five? Caesar says. From the moment I laid eyes on her, says Peeta. But, Katniss, what a ride for you. I think the real excitement for the audience was watching you fall for him. When did you realize you were in love with him? asks Caesar. Oh, thats a hard one . . . I give a faint, breathy laugh and look down at my hands. Help. Well, I know when it hit me. The night when you shouted out his name from that tree, says Caesar. Thank you, Caesar! I think, and then go with his idea. Yes, I guess that was it. I mean, until that point, I just tried not to think about what my feelings might be, honestly, because it was so confusing and it only made things worse if I actually cared about him. But then, in the tree, everything changed, I say. Why do you think that was? urges Caesar. Maybe . . .

Because for the first time . . . There was a chance I could keep him, I say. Behind a cameraman, I see Haymitch give a sort of huff with relief and I know Ive said the right thing. Caesar pulls out a handkerchief and has to take a moment because hes so moved. I can feel Peeta press his forehead into my temple and he asks, So now that youve got me, what are you going to do with me? I turn in to him. Put you somewhere you cant get hurt. And when he kisses me, people in the room actually sigh. For Caesar, this is a natural place to segue into all the ways we did get hurt in the arena, from burns, to stings, to wounds. But its not until we get around to the mutts that I forget Im on camera. When Caesar asks Peeta how his new leg is working out. New leg? I say, and I cant help reaching out and pulling up the bottom of Peetas pants. Oh, no, I whisper, taking in the metal-and-plastic device that has replaced his flesh. No one told you? asks Caesar gently. I shake my head. I havent had the chance, says Peeta with a slight shrug. Its my fault, I say. Because I used that tourniquet. Yes, its your fault Im alive, says Peeta. Hes right, says Caesar. Hed have bled to death for sure without it. I guess this is true, but I cant help feeling upset about it to the extent that Im afraid I might cry and then I remember everyone in the country is watching

me so I just bury my face in Peetas shirt. It takes them a couple of minutes to coax me back out because its better in the shirt, where no one can see me, and when I do come out, Caesar backs off questioning me so I can recover. In fact, he pretty much leaves me alone until the berries come up. Katniss, I know youve had a shock, but Ive got to ask. The moment when you pulled out those berries. What was going on in your mind . . . Hm? he says. I take

a long pause before I answer, trying to collect my thoughts. This is the crucial moment where I either challenged the Capitol or went so crazy at the idea of losing Peeta that I cant be held responsible for my actions. It seems to call for a big, dramatic speech, but all I get out is one almost inaudible sentence. I dont know, I just . . . Couldnt bear the thought of . . . Being without him. Peeta? Anything to add? asks Caesar. No. I think that goes for both of us, he says. Caesar signs off and its over. Everyones laughing and crying and hugging, but Im still not sure until I reach Haymitch. Okay? I whisper. Perfect, he answers. I go back to my room to collect a few things and find theres nothing to take but the mockingjay pin Madge gave me.

Someone returned it to my room after the Games. They drive us through the streets in a car with blackened windows, and the trains waiting for us. We barely have time to say good-bye to Cinna and Portia, although well see them in a few months, when we tour the districts for a round of victory ceremonies. Its the Capitols way of reminding people that the Hunger Games never really go away. Well be given a lot of useless plaques, and everyone will have to pretend they love us. The train begins moving and were plunged into night until we clear the tunnel and I take my first free breath since the reaping. Effie is accompanying us back and Haymitch, too, of course. We eat an enormous dinner and settle into silence in front of the television to watch a replay of the interview. With the Capitol growing farther away every second, I begin to think of home. Of Prim and my mother. Of Gale. I excuse myself to change out of my dress and into a plain shirt and pants. As I slowly, thoroughly wash the makeup from my face and put my hair in its braid, I begin transforming back into myself. Katniss Everdeen. A girl who lives in the Seam. Hunts in the woods. Trades in the Hob. I stare in the mirror as I try to remember who I am and who I am not. By the time I join the others, the pressure of Peetas arm around my shoulders feels alien.

When the train makes a brief stop for fuel, were allowed to go outside for some fresh air. Theres no longer any need to guard us. Peeta and I walk down along the track, hand in hand, and I cant find anything to say now that were alone. He stops to gather a bunch of wildflowers for me. When he presents them, I work hard to look pleased. Because he cant know that the pink-and-white flowers are the tops of wild onions and only remind me of the hours Ive spent gathering them with Gale. Gale. The idea of seeing Gale in a matter of hours makes my stomach churn. But why? I cant quite frame it in my mind. I only know that I feel like Ive been lying to someone who trusts me. Or more accurately, to two people. Ive been getting away with it up to this point because of the Games. But there will be no Games to hide behind back home. Whats wrong? Peeta asks. Nothing, I answer. We continue walking, past the end of

the train, out where even Im fairly sure there are no cameras hidden in the scrubby bushes along the track. Still no words come. Haymitch startles me when he lays a hand on my back. Even now, in the middle of nowhere, he keeps his voice down. Great job, you two. Just keep it up in the district until the cameras are gone.

We should be okay. I watch him head back to the train, avoiding Peetas eyes. Whats he mean? Peeta asks me. Its the Capitol. They didnt like our stunt with the berries, I blurt out. What? What are you talking about? he says. It seemed too rebellious. So, Haymitch has been coaching me through the last few days. So I didnt make it worse, I say. Coaching you? But not me, says Peeta. He knew you were smart enough to get it right, I say. I didnt know there was anything to get right, says Peeta. So, what youre saying is, these last few days and then I guess . . . Back in the arena . . . That was just some strategy you two worked out. No. I mean, I couldnt even talk to him in the arena, could I? I stammer. But you knew what he wanted you to do, didnt you? says Peeta. I bite my lip. Katniss? He drops my hand and I take a step, as if to catch my balance. It was all for the Games, Peeta says. How you acted. Not all of it, I say, tightly holding onto my flowers. Then how much? No, forget that. I guess the real question is whats going to be left when we get home? he says. I dont know. The closer we get to District Twelve, the more confused I get, I say. He waits, for further explanation, but nones forthcoming. Well, let me know when you work it out, he says, and the pain in his voice is palpable. I know my ears are healed because, even with the rumble of the engine, I can hear every step he takes back to the train. By the time Ive climbed aboard, Peeta has disappiared into his room for the night. I dont see him the next morning, either. In fact, the next time he turns up, were pulling into District 12. He gives me a nod, his face expressionless. I want to tell him that hes not being fair. That we were strangers. That I did what it took to stay alive, to keep us both alive in the arena. That I cant explain how things are with Gale because I dont know myself. That its no good loving me because Im never going to get married anyway and hed just end up hating me later instead of sooner. That if I do have feelings for him, it doesnt matter because Ill never be able to afford the kind of love that leads to a family, to children. And how can he? How can he after what weve just been through? I also want to tell him how much I already miss him. But that wouldnt be fair on my part. So we just stand there silently, watching our grimy little station rise up around us. Through the window, I can see the platforms thick with cameras. Everyone will be eagerly watching our homecoming. Out of the corner of my eye, I see Peeta extend his hand. I look at him, unsure. One more time? For the audience? he says. His voice isnt angry. Its hollow, which is worse.


Already the boy with the bread is slipping away from me. I take his hand, holding on tightly, preparing for the cameras, and dreading the moment when I will finally have to let go.

END OF BOOK ONE



