how long these meetings have been going on, dear. 
You can simply nod or shake your head, I’m sure that 
won’t make the spots worse. Have they been 
happening regularly over the last six months?” 

Harry felt a horrible plummeting in his stomach. This 
was it, they had hit a dead end of solid evidence that 
not even Dumbledore would be able to shift aside... 

“Just nod or shake your head, dear,” Umbridge said 
coaxingly to Marietta. “Come on, now, that won’t 
activate the jinx further...” 

Everyone in the room was gazing at the top of 
Marietta’s face. Only her eyes were visible between 
the pulled up robes and her curly fringe. Perhaps it 
was a trick of the firelight, but her eyes looked oddly 
blank. And then — to Harry’s utter amazement — 
Marietta shook her head. 

Umbridge looked quickly at Fudge and then back at 
Marietta. 

“I don’t think you understood the question, did you, 
dear? I’m asking whether you’ve been going to these 
meetings for the past six months? You have, haven’t 
you?” 

Again, Marietta shook her head. 

“What do you mean by shaking your head, dear?” 
said Umbridge in a testy voice. 

“I would have thought her meaning was quite clear,” 
said Professor McGonagall harshly. “There have been 
no secret meetings for the past six months. Is that 
correct, Miss Edgecombe?” 



Page | 785Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Marietta nodded. 



“But there was a meeting tonight!” said Umbridge 
furiously. “There was a meeting, Miss Edgecombe, 
you told me about it, in the Room of Requirement! 

And Potter was the leader, was he not, Potter 
organized it, Potter — why are you shaking your head, 
girl?” 

“Well, usually when a person shakes their head,” said 
McGonagall coldly, “they mean ‘no.’ So unless Miss 
Edgecombe is using a form of sign language as yet 
unknown to humans — ” 

Professor Umbridge seized Marietta, pulled her 
around to face her, and began shaking her very hard. 
A split second later Dumbledore was on his feet, his 
wand raised. Kingsley started forward and Umbridge 
leapt back from Marietta, waving her hands in the air 
as though they had been burned. 

“I cannot allow you to manhandle my students, 
Dolores,” said Dumbledore, and for the first time, he 
looked angry. 

“You want to calm yourself, Madam Umbridge,” said 
Kingsley in his deep, slow voice. “You don’t want to 
get yourself into trouble now.” 

“No,” said Umbridge breathlessly, glancing up at the 
towering figure of Kingsley. “I mean, yes — you’re 
right, Shacklebolt — I — I forgot myself.” 

Marietta was standing exactly where Umbridge had 
released her. She seemed neither perturbed by 
Umbridge’s sudden attack, nor relieved by her 
release. She was still clutching her robe up to her 
oddly blank eyes, staring straight ahead of her. A 
sudden suspicion connected to Kingsley’s whisper 
Page | 786Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and the thing he had felt shoot past him sprang into 
Harry’s mind. 



“Dolores,” said Fudge, with the air of trying to settle 
something once and for all, “the meeting tonight — 
the one we know definitely happened — ” 

“Yes,” said Umbridge, pulling herself together, “yes ... 
well, Miss Edgecombe tipped me off and I proceeded 
at once to the seventh floor, accompanied by certain 
trustworthy students, so as to catch those in the 
meeting red-handed. It appears that they were 
forewarned of my arrival, however, because when we 
reached the seventh floor they were running in every 
direction. It does not matter, however. I have all their 
names here, Miss Parkinson ran into the Room of 
Requirement for me to see if they had left anything 
behind... We needed evidence and the room provided 



And to Harry’s horror, she withdrew from her pocket 
the list of names that had been pinned upon the 
Room of Requirement’s wall and handed it to Fudge. 

“The moment I saw Potter’s name on the list, I knew 
what we were dealing with,” she said softly. 

“Excellent,” said Fudge, a smile spreading across his 
face. “Excellent, Dolores. And ... by thunder ...” 

He looked up at Dumbledore, who was still standing 
beside Marietta, his wand held loosely in his hand. 

“See what they’ve named themselves?” said Fudge 
quietly. “Dumbledore’sArmy.” 

Dumbledore reached out and took the piece of 
parchment from Fudge. He gazed at the heading 
scribbled by Hermione months before and for a 

Page | 787Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




moment seemed unable to speak. Then he looked up, 
smiling. 



“Well, the game is up,” he said simply. “Would you 
like a written confession from me, Cornelius — or will 
a statement before these witnesses suffice?” 

Harry saw McGonagall and Kingsley look at each 
other. There was fear in both faces. He did not 
understand what was going on, and neither, 
apparently, did Fudge. 

“Statement?” said Fudge slowly. “What — I don’t — ?” 

“Dumbledore’s Army, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, 
still smiling as he waved the list of names before 
Fudge’s face. “Not Potter’s Army. Dumbledore’s Army.” 

“But — but — ” 

Understanding blazed suddenly in Fudge’s face. He 
took a horrified step backward, yelped, and jumped 
out of the fire again. 

“You?” he whispered, stamping again on his 
smoldering cloak. 

“That’s right,” said Dumbledore pleasantly. 

“You organized this?” 

“I did,” said Dumbledore. 

“You recruited these students for — for your army?” 

“Tonight was supposed to be the first meeting,” said 
Dumbledore, nodding. “Merely to see whether they 
would be interested in joining me. I see now that it 
was a mistake to invite Miss Edgecombe, of course.” 

Page | 788Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Marietta nodded. Fudge looked from her to 
Dumbledore, his chest swelling. 



“Then you have been plotting against me!” he yelled. 
“That’s right,” said Dumbledore cheerfully. 

“NO!” shouted Harry. 

Kingsley flashed a look of warning at him, 

McGonagall widened her eyes threateningly, but it 
had suddenly dawned upon Harry what Dumbledore 
was about to do, and he could not let it happen. 

“No — Professor Dumbledore!” 

“Be quiet, Harry, or I am afraid you will have to leave 
my office,” said Dumbledore calmly. 

“Yes, shut up, Potter!” barked Fudge, who was still 
ogling Dumbledore with a kind of horrified delight. 
“Well, well, well — I came here tonight expecting to 
expel Potter and instead — ” 

“Instead you get to arrest me,” said Dumbledore, 
smiling. “It’s like losing a Knut and finding a Galleon, 
isn’t it?” 

“Weasley!” cried Fudge, now positively quivering with 
delight, “Weasley, have you written it all down, 
everything he’s said, his confession, have you got it?” 

“Yes, sir, I think so, sir!” said Percy eagerly, whose 
nose was splattered with ink from the speed of his 
note-taking. 

“The bit about how he’s been trying to build up an 
army against the Ministry, how he’s been working to 
destabilize me?” 

Page | 789Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, sir, I’ve got it, yes!” said Percy, scanning his 
notes joyfully. 

“Very well, then,” said Fudge, now radiant with glee. 
“Duplicate your notes, Weasley, and send a copy to 
the Daily Prophet at once. If we send a fast owl we 
should make the morning edition!” Percy dashed from 
the room, slamming the door behind him, and Fudge 
turned back to Dumbledore. “You will now be 
escorted back to the Ministry, where you will be 
formally charged and then sent to Azkaban to await 
trial!” 

“Ah,” said Dumbledore gently, “yes. Yes, I thought we 
might hit that little snag.” 

“Snag?” said Fudge, his voice still vibrating with joy. 

“I see no snag, Dumbledore!” 

“Well,” said Dumbledore apologetically, “I’m afraid I 
do.” 

“Oh really?” 

“Well — it’s just that you seem to be laboring under 
the delusion that I am going to — what is the phrase? 
‘Come quietly. ’ I am afraid I am not going to come 
quietly at all, Cornelius. I have absolutely no 
intention of being sent to Azkaban. I could break out, 
of course — but what a waste of time, and frankly, I 
can think of a whole host of things I would rather be 
doing.” 

Umbridge’s face was growing steadily redder, she 
looked as though she was being filled with boiling 
water. Fudge stared at Dumbledore with a very silly 
expression on his face, as though he had just been 
stunned by a sudden blow and could not quite believe 
it had happened. He made a small choking noise and 
Page | 790Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




then looked around at Kingsley and the man with 
short gray hair, who alone of everyone in the room 
had remained entirely silent so far. The latter gave 
Fudge a reassuring nod and moved forward a little, 
away from the wall. Harry saw his hand drift, almost 
casually, toward his pocket. 

“Don’t be silly, Dawlish,” said Dumbledore kindly. 

“I’m sure you are an excellent Auror, I seem to 
remember that you achieved ‘Outstanding’ in all your 
N.E.W.T.s, but if you attempt to — er — ‘bring me in’ 
by force, I will have to hurt you.” 

The man called Dawlish blinked, looking rather 
foolish. He looked toward Fudge again, but this time 
seemed to be hoping for a clue as to what to do next. 

“So,” sneered Fudge, recovering himself, “you intend 
to take on Dawlish, Shacklebolt, Dolores, and myself 
single-handed, do you, Dumbledore?” 

“Merlin’s beard, no,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “Not 
unless you are foolish enough to force me to.” 

“He will not be single-handed!” said Professor 
McGonagall loudly, plunging her hand inside her 
robes. 

“Oh yes he will, Minerva!” said Dumbledore sharply. 
“Hogwarts needs you!” 

“Enough of this rubbish!” said Fudge, pulling out his 
own wand. “Dawlish! Shacklebolt! Take him ). ” 

A streak of silver light flashed around the room. There 
was a bang like a gunshot, and the floor trembled. A 
hand grabbed the scruff of Harry’s neck and forced 
him down on the floor as a second silver flash went 
off — several of the portraits yelled, Fawkes 
Page | 791Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




screeched, and a cloud of dust filled the air. Coughing 
in the dust, Harry saw a dark figure fall to the ground 
with a crash in front of him. There was a shriek and a 
thud and somebody cried, “No!” Then the sound of 
breaking glass, frantically scuffling footsteps, a groan 

— and silence. 

Harry struggled around to see who was half- 
strangling him and saw Professor McGonagall 
crouched beside him. She had forced both him and 
Marietta out of harm’s way. Dust was still floating 
gently down through the air onto them. Panting 
slightly, Harry saw a very tall figure moving toward 
them. 

“Are you all right?” said Dumbledore. 

“Yes!” said Professor McGonagall, getting up and 
dragging Harry and Marietta with her. 

The dust was clearing. The wreckage of the office 
loomed into view: Dumbledore’s desk had been 
overturned, all of the spindly tables had been 
knocked to the floor, their silver instruments in 
pieces. Fudge, Umbridge, Kingsley, and Dawlish lay 
motionless on the floor. Fawkes the phoenix soared in 
wide circles above them, singing softly. 

“Unfortunately, I had to hex Kingsley too, or it would 
have looked very suspicious,” said Dumbledore in a 
low voice. “He was remarkably quick on the uptake, 
modifying Miss Edgecombe’s memory like that while 
everyone was looking the other way — thank him for 
me, won’t you, Minerva? 

“Now, they will all awake very soon and it will be best 
if they do not know that we had time to communicate 

— you must act as though no time has passed, as 



Page | 792Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




though they were merely knocked to the ground, they 
will not remember — ” 

“Where will you go, Dumbledore?” whispered 
Professor McGonagall. “Grimmauld Place?” 

“Oh no,” said Dumbledore with a grim smile. “I am 
not leaving to go into hiding. Fudge will soon wish 
he’d never dislodged me from Hogwarts, I promise 
you...” 

“Professor Dumbledore ...” Harry began. 

He did not know what to say first: how sorry he was 
that he had started the D.A. in the first place and 
caused all this trouble, or how terrible he felt that 
Dumbledore was leaving to save him from expulsion? 
But Dumbledore cut him off before he could say 
another word. 

“Listen to me, Harry,” he said urgently, “you must 
study Occlumency as hard as you can, do you 
understand me? Do everything Professor Snape tells 
you and practice it particularly every night before 
sleeping so that you can close your mind to bad 
dreams — you will understand why soon enough, but 
you must promise me — ” 

The man called Dawlish was stirring. Dumbledore 
seized Harry’s wrist. 

“Remember — close your mind — ” 

But as Dumbledore ’s fingers closed over Harry’s skin, 
a pain shot through the scar on his forehead, and he 
felt again that terrible, snakelike longing to strike 
Dumbledore, to bite him, to hurt him — 

“ — you will understand,” whispered Dumbledore. 

Page | 793Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fawkes circled the office and swooped low over him. 
Dumbledore released Harry, raised his hand, and 
grasped the phoenix’s long golden tail. There was a 
flash of fire and the pair of them had gone. 

“Where is he?” yelled Fudge, pushing himself up from 
the ground. “Where is he?” 

“I don’t know!” shouted Kingsley, also leaping to his 
feet. 

“Well, he can’t have Disapparated!” cried Umbridge. 
“You can’t inside this school — ” 

“The stairs!” cried Dawlish, and he flung himself upon 
the door, wrenched it open, and disappeared, followed 
closely by Kingsley and Umbridge. Fudge hesitated, 
then got to his feet slowly, brushing dust from his 
front. There was a long and painful silence. 

“Well, Minerva,” said Fudge nastily, straightening his 
torn shirtsleeve, “I’m afraid this is the end of your 
friend Dumbledore.” 

“You think so, do you?” said Professor McGonagall 
scornfully. 

Fudge seemed not to hear her. He was looking around 
at the wrecked office. A few of the portraits hissed at 
him; one or two even made rude hand gestures. 

“You’d better get those two off to bed,” said Fudge, 
looking back at Professor McGonagall with a 
dismissive nod toward Harry and Marietta. 

She said nothing, but marched Harry and Marietta to 
the door. As it swung closed behind them, Harry 
heard Phineas Nigellus’s voice. 



Page | 794Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You know, Minister, I disagree with Dumbledore on 
many counts ... but you cannot deny he’s got style...” 



Page | 795Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






SNAPE’S WORST MEMORY 

— BY ORDER OF — 

THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC 

Dolores Jane Umbridge (High Inquisitor) has replaced 
Albus Dumbledore as Head of Hogwarts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry. 

The above is in accordance with 

Educational Decree Number Twenty-eight. 

Signed: 

Cornelius Oswald Fudge 
MINISTER OF MAGIC 

The notices had gone up all over the school overnight, 
but they did not explain how every single person 
within the castle seemed to know that Dumbledore 



Page | 796Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



had overcome two Aurors, the High Inquisitor, the 
Minister of Magic, and his Junior Assistant to escape. 
No matter where Harry went within the castle next 
day, the sole topic of conversation was Dumbledore’s 
flight, and though some of the details might have 
gone awry in the retelling (Harry overheard one 
second-year girl assuring another that Fudge was 
now lying in St. Mungo’s with a pumpkin for a head), 
it was surprising how accurate the rest of their 
information was. Everybody seemed aware, for 
instance, that Harry and Marietta were the only 
students to have witnessed the scene in Dumbledore’s 
office, and as Marietta was now in the hospital wing, 
Harry found himself besieged with requests to give a 
firsthand account wherever he went. 

“Dumbledore will be back before long,” said Ernie 
Macmillan confidently on the way back from 
Herbology after listening intently to Harry’s story. 
“They couldn’t keep him away in our second year and 
they won’t be able to this time. The Fat Friar told me 
...” He dropped his voice conspiratorially, so that 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had to lean closer to him 
to hear, "... that Umbridge tried to get back into his 
office last night after they’d searched the castle and 
grounds for him. Couldn’t get past the gargoyle. The 
Head’s office has sealed itself against her.” Ernie 
smirked. “Apparently she had a right little tantrum...” 

“Oh, I expect she really fancied herself sitting up 
there in the Head’s office,” said Hermione viciously, as 
they walked up the stone steps into the entrance hall. 
“Lording it over all the other teachers, the stupid 
puffed-up, power-crazy old — ” 

“Now, do you really want to finish that sentence, 
Granger?” 



Page | 797Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Draco Malfoy had slid out from behind the door, 
followed by Crabbe and Goyle. His pale, pointed face 
was alight with malice. 

“Afraid I’m going to have to dock a few points from 
Gryffindor and Hufflepuff,” he drawled. 

“It’s only teachers that can dock points from Houses, 
Malfoy,” said Ernie at once. 

“Yeah, we’re prefects too, remember?” snarled Ron. 

“I know prefects can’t dock points, Weasel King,” 
sneered Malfoy; Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. “But 
members of the Inquisitorial Squad — ” 

“The what?” said Hermione sharply. 

“The Inquisitorial Squad, Granger,” said Malfoy, 
pointing toward a tiny silver I upon his robes just 
beneath his prefect’s badge. “A select group of 
students who are supportive of the Ministry of Magic, 
hand-picked by Professor Umbridge. Anyway, 
members of the Inquisitorial Squad do have the power 
to dock points... So, Granger, I’ll have five from you 
for being rude about our new headmistress... 
Macmillan, five for contradicting me... Five because I 
don’t like you, Potter ... Weasley, your shirt’s 
untucked, so I’ll have another five for that... Oh yeah, 

I forgot, you’re a Mudblood, Granger, so ten for 
that...” 

Ron pulled out his wand, but Hermione pushed it 
away, whispering, “Don’t!” 

“Wise move, Granger,” breathed Malfoy. “New Head, 
new times ... Be good now, Potty ... Weasel King ...” 



Page | 798Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He strode away, laughing heartily with Crabbe and 
Goyle. 

“He was bluffing,” said Ernie, looking appalled. “He 
can’t be allowed to dock points ... that would be 
ridiculous... It would completely undermine the 
prefect system...” 

But Harry, Ron, and Hermione had turned 
automatically toward the giant hourglasses set in 
niches along the wall behind them, which recorded 
the House points. Gryffindor and Ravenclaw had been 
neck and neck in the lead that morning. Even as they 
watched, stones flew upward, reducing the amounts 
in the lower bulbs. In fact, the only glass that seemed 
unchanged was the emerald-filled one of Slytherin. 

“Noticed, have you?” said Fred’s voice. 

He and George had just come down the marble 
staircase and joined Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ernie 
in front of the hourglasses. 

“Malfoy just docked us all about fifty points,” said 
Harry furiously, as they watched several more stones 
fly upward from the Gryffindor hourglass. 

“Yeah, Montague tried to do us during break,” said 
George. 

“What do you mean, ‘tried’?” said Ron quickly. 

“He never managed to get all the words out,” said 
Fred, “due to the fact that we forced him headfirst 
into that Vanishing Cabinet on the first floor.” 

Hermione looked very shocked. 

“But you’ll get into terrible trouble!” 

Page | 799Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Not until Montague reappears, and that could take 
weeks, I dunno where we sent him,” said Fred coolly. 
“Anyway ... we’ve decided we don’t care about getting 
into trouble anymore.” 

“Have you ever?” asked Hermione. 

“ ’Course we have,” said George. “Never been expelled, 
have we?” 

“We’ve always known where to draw the line,” said 
Fred. 

“We might have put a toe across it occasionally,” said 
George. 

“But we’ve always stopped short of causing real 
mayhem,” said Fred. 

“But now?” said Ron tentatively. 

“Well, now — ” said George. 

“ — what with Dumbledore gone — ” said Fred. 

“ — we reckon a bit of mayhem — ” said George. 

“ — is exactly what our dear new Head deserves,” said 
Fred. 

“You mustn’t!” whispered Hermione. “You really 
mustn’t! She’d love a reason to expel you!” 

“You don’t get it, Hermione, do you?” said Fred, 
smiling at her. “We don’t care about staying anymore. 
We’d walk out right now if we weren’t determined to 
do our bit for Dumbledore first. So anyway,” he 
checked his watch, “phase one is about to begin. I’d 
get in the Great Hall for lunch if I were you, that way 

Page | 800Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the teachers will see you can’t have had anything to 
do with it.” 

“Anything to do with what?” said Hermione anxiously. 

“You’ll see,” said George. “Run along, now.” 

Fred and George turned away and disappeared in the 
swelling crowd descending the stairs toward lunch. 
Looking highly disconcerted, Ernie muttered 
something about unfinished Transfiguration 
homework and scurried away. 

“I think we should get out of here, you know,” said 
Hermione nervously. “Just in case ...” 

“Yeah, all right,” said Ron, and the three of them 
moved toward the doors to the Great Hall, but Harry 
had barely glimpsed today’s ceiling of scudding white 
clouds when somebody tapped him on the shoulder 
and, turning, he found himself almost nose to nose 
with Filch, the caretaker. He took several hasty steps 
backward; Filch was best viewed at a distance. 

“The headmistress would like to see you, Potter,” he 
leered. 

“I didn’t do it,” said Harry stupidly, thinking of 
whatever Fred and George were planning. Filch’s 
jowls wobbled with silent laughter. 

“Guilty conscience, eh?” he wheezed. “Follow me...” 

Harry glanced back at Ron and Hermione, who were 
both looking worried. He shrugged and followed Filch 
back into the entrance hall, against the tide of hungry 
students. 



Page | 801Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Filch seemed to be in an extremely good mood; he 
hummed creakily under his breath as they climbed 
the marble staircase. As they reached the first landing 
he said, “Things are changing around here, Potter.” 

“I’ve noticed,” said Harry coldly. 

“Yerse ... I’ve been telling Dumbledore for years and 
years he’s too soft with you all,” said Filch, chuckling 
nastily. “You filthy little beasts would never have 
dropped Stinkpellets if you’d known I had it in my 
power to whip you raw, would you, now? Nobody 
would have thought of throwing Fanged Frisbees 
down the corridors if I could’ve strung you up by the 
ankles in my office, would they? But when 
Educational Decree Twenty-nine comes in, Potter, I’ll 
be allowed to do them things... And she’s asked the 
Minister to sign an order for the expulsion of Peeves... 
Oh, things are going to be very different around here 
with her in charge...” 

Umbridge had obviously gone to some lengths to get 
Filch on her side, Harry thought, and the worst of it 
was that he would probably prove an important 
weapon; his knowledge of the school’s secret 
passageways and hiding places was probably second 
only to the Weasley twins. 

“Here we are,” he said, leering down at Harry as he 
rapped three times upon Professor Umbridge’s door 
and pushed it open. “The Potter boy to see you, 
ma’am.” 

Umbridge’s office, so very familiar to Harry from his 
many detentions, was the same as usual except for 
the large wooden block lying across the front of her 
desk on which golden letters spelled the word 
HEADMISTRESS; also his Firebolt, and Fred’s and 
George’s Clean-sweeps, which he saw with a pang 
Page | 802Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




were now chained and padlocked to a stout iron peg 
in the wall behind the desk. Umbridge was sitting 
behind the desk, busily scribbling upon some of her 
pink parchment, but looked up and smiled widely at 
their entrance. 

“Thank you, Argus,” she said sweetly. 

“Not at all, ma’am, not at all,” said Filch, bowing as 
low as his rheumatism would permit, and exiting 
backward. 

“Sit,” said Umbridge curtly, pointing toward a chair, 
and Harry sat. She continued to scribble for a few 
moments. He watched some of the foul kittens 
gamboling around the plates over her head, 
wondering what fresh horror she had in store for him. 

“Well now,” she said finally, setting down her quill 
and looking like a toad about to swallow a 
particularly juicy fly. “What would you like to drink?” 

“What?” said Harry, quite sure he had misheard her. 

“To drink, Mr. Potter,” she said, smiling still more 
widely. “Tea? Coffee? Pumpkin juice?” 

As she named each drink, she gave her short wand a 
wave, and a cup or glass of it appeared upon her 
desk. 

“Nothing, thank you,” said Harry. 

“I wish you to have a drink with me,” she said, her 
voice becoming more dangerously sweet. “Choose 
one.” 

“Fine ... tea then,” said Harry, shrugging. 



Page | 803Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She got up and made quite a performance of adding 
milk with her back to him. She then bustled around 
the desk with it, smiling in sinisterly sweet fashion. 

“There,” she said, handing it to him. “Drink it before it 
gets cold, won’t you? Well, now, Mr. Potter ... I 
thought we ought to have a little chat, after the 
distressing events of last night.” 

He said nothing. She settled herself back into her seat 
and waited. When several long moments had passed 
in silence, she said gaily, “You’re not drinking up!” 

He raised the cup to his lips and then, just as 
suddenly, lowered it. One of the horrible painted 
kittens behind Umbridge had great round blue eyes 
just like Mad-Eye Moody’s magical one, and it had 
just occurred to Harry what Mad-Eye would say if he 
ever heard that Harry had drunk anything offered by 
a known enemy. 

“What’s the matter?” said Umbridge, who was still 
watching him. “Do you want sugar?” 

“No,” said Harry. 

He raised the cup to his lips again and pretended to 
take a sip, though keeping his mouth tightly closed. 
Umbridge’s smile widened. 

“Good,” she whispered. “Very good. Now then ...” She 
leaned forward a little. “Where is Albus Dumbledore?” 

“No idea,” said Harry promptly. 

“Drink up, drink up,” she said, still smiling. “Now, 

Mr. Potter, let us not play childish games. I know that 
you know where he has gone. You and Dumbledore 



Page | 804Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have been in this together from the beginning. 
Consider your position, Mr. Potter...” 

“I don’t know where he is.” 

Harry pretended to drink again. 

“Very well,” said Umbridge, looking displeased. “In 
that case, you will kindly tell me the whereabouts of 
Sirius Black.” 

Harry’s stomach turned over and his hand holding 
the teacup shook so that the cup rattled in its saucer. 
He tilted the cup to his mouth with his lips pressed 
together, so that some of the hot liquid trickled down 
onto his robes. 

“I don’t know,” he said a little too quickly. 

“Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge, “let me remind you that 
it was I who almost caught the criminal Black in the 
Gryffindor fire in October. I know perfectly well it was 
you he was meeting and if I had had any proof neither 
of you would be at large today, I promise you. I 
repeat, Mr. Potter ... Where is Sirius Black?” 

“No idea,” said Harry loudly. “Haven’t got a clue.” 

They stared at each other so long that Harry felt his 
eyes watering. Then she stood up. 

“Very well, Potter, I will take your word for it this 
time, but be warned: The might of the Ministry stands 
behind me. All channels of communication in and out 
of this school are being monitored. A Floo Network 
Regulator is keeping watch over every fire in Hogwarts 
— except my own, of course. My Inquisitorial Squad 
is opening and reading all owl post entering and 
leaving the castle. And Mr. Filch is observing all 
Page | 805Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




secret passages in and out of the castle. If I find a 
shred of evidence ...” 



BOOM! 

The very floor of the office shook; Umbridge slipped 
sideways, clutching her desk for support, looking 
shocked. 

“What was — ?” 

She was gazing toward the door; Harry took the 
opportunity to empty his almost full cup of tea into 
the nearest vase of dried flowers. He could hear 
people running and screaming several floors below. 

“Back to lunch with you, Potter!” cried Umbridge, 
raising her wand and dashing out of the office. Harry 
gave her a few seconds’ start then hurried after her to 
see what the source of all the uproar was. 

It was not difficult to find. One floor down, 
pandemonium reigned. Somebody (and Harry had a 
very shrewd idea who) had set off what seemed to be 
an enormous crate of enchanted fireworks. 

Dragons comprised entirely of green-and-gold sparks 
were soaring up and down the corridors, emitting 
loud fiery blasts and bangs as they went. Shocking- 
pink Catherine wheels five feet in diameter were 
whizzing lethally through the air like so many flying 
saucers. Rockets with long tails of brilliant silver stars 
were ricocheting off the walls. Sparklers were writing 
swearwords in midair of their own accord. 

Firecrackers were exploding like mines everywhere 
Harry looked, and instead of burning themselves out, 
fading from sight, or fizzling to a halt, these 
pyrotechnical miracles seemed to be gaining in energy 
and momentum the longer he watched. 

Page | 806Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Filch and Umbridge were standing, apparently 
transfixed with horror, halfway down the stairs. As 
Harry watched, one of the larger Catherine wheels 
seemed to decide that what it needed was more room 
to maneuver; it whirled toward Umbridge and Filch 
with a sinister voheeeeeeeeee. Both adults yelled with 
fright and ducked and it soared straight out of the 
window behind them and off across the grounds. 
Meanwhile, several of the dragons and a large purple 
bat that was smoking ominously took advantage of 
the open door at the end of the corridor to escape 
toward the second floor. 

“Hurry, Filch, hurry!” shrieked Umbridge. “They’ll be 
all over the school unless we do something — 

Stupefy]” 

A jet of red light shot out of the end of her wand and 
hit one of the rockets. Instead of freezing in midair, it 
exploded with such force that it blasted a hole in a 
painting of a soppy-looking witch in the middle of a 
meadow — she ran for it just in time, reappearing 
seconds later squashed into the painting next door, 
where a couple of wizards playing cards stood up 
hastily to make room for her. 

“Don’t Stun them, Filch!” shouted Umbridge angrily, 
for all the world as though it had been his suggestion. 

“Right you are, Headmistress!” wheezed Filch, who 
was a Squib and could no more have Stunned the 
fireworks than swallowed them. He dashed to a 
nearby cupboard, pulled out a broom, and began 
swatting at the fireworks in midair; within seconds 
the head of the broom was ablaze. 

Harry had seen enough. Laughing, he ducked down 
low, ran to a door he knew was concealed behind a 
tapestry a little way along the corridor and slipped 

