clothes, the decorations are made from autumn foliage, the
music is provided by a choir of children accompanied by
the lone fiddler who made it out of 12 with his instrument.
So it's simple, frugal by the Capitol's standards. It doesn't
matter because nothing can compete with the beauty of the
couple. It isn't about their borrowed finery--Annie wears a
green silk dress I wore in 5, Finnick one of Peeta's suits
that they altered--although the clothes are striking. Who can
look past the radiant faces of two people for whom this day
was once a virtual impossibility? Dalton, the cattle guy from
10, conducts the ceremony, since it's similar to the one
used in his district. But there are unique touches of District
4. A net woven from long grass that covers the couple
during their vows, the touching of each other's lips with salt
water, and the ancient wedding song, which likens
marriage to a sea voyage.
No, I don't have to pretend to be happy for them.
After the kiss that seals the union, the cheers, and a
toast with apple cider, the fiddler strikes up a tune that turns
every head from 12. We may have been the smallest,
poorest district in Panem, but we know how to dance.
Nothing has been officially scheduled at this point, but
Plutarch, who's calling the propo from the control room,
must have his fingers crossed. Sure enough, Greasy Sae
grabs Gale by the hand and pulls him into the center of the
floor and faces off with him. People pour in to join them,
forming two long lines. And the dancing begins.
I'm standing off to the side, clapping to the rhythm,
when a bony hand pinches me above the elbow. Johanna
scowls at me. "Are you going to miss the chance to let
Snow see you dancing?" She's right. What could spell
victory louder than a happy Mockingjay twirling around to
music? I find Prim in the crowd. Since winter evenings gave
us a lot of time to practice, we're actually pretty good
partners. I brush off her concerns about my ribs, and we
take our places in the line. It hurts, but the satisfaction of
having Snow watch me dance with my little sister reduces
other feelings to dust.
Dancing transforms us. We teach the steps to the
District 13 guests. Insist on a special number for the bride
and groom. Join hands and make a giant, spinning circle
where people show off their footwork. Nothing silly, joyful, or
fun has happened in so long. This could go on all night if not
for the last event planned in Plutarch's propo. One I hadn't
heard about, but then it was meant to be a surprise.
Four people wheel out a huge wedding cake from a
side room. Most of the guests back up, making way for this
rarity, this dazzling creation with blue-green, white-tipped
icing waves swimming with fish and sailboats, seals and
sea flowers. But I push my way through the crowd to confirm
what I knew at first sight. As surely as the embroidery
stitches in Annie's gown were done by Cinna's hand, the
frosted flowers on the cake were done by Peeta's.
This may seem like a small thing, but it speaks
volumes. Haymitch has been keeping a great deal from
me. The boy I last saw, screaming his head off, trying to
tear free of his restraints, could never have made this.
Never have had the focus, kept his hands steady, designed
something so perfect for Finnick and Annie. As if
anticipating my reaction, Haymitch is at my side.
"Let's you and me have a talk," he says.
Out in the hall, away from the cameras, I ask, "What's
happening to him?"
Haymitch shakes his head. "I don't know. None of us
knows. Sometimes he's almost rational, and then, for no
reason, he goes off again. Doing the cake was a kind of
therapy. He's been working on it for days. Watching
him...he seemed almost like before."
"So, he's got the run of the place?" I ask. The idea
makes me nervous on about five different levels.
"Oh, no. He frosted under heavy guard. He's still under
lock and key. But I've talked to him," Haymitch says.
"Face-to-face?" I ask. "And he didn't go nuts?"
"No. Pretty angry with me, but for all the right reasons.
Not telling him about the rebel plot and whatnot." Haymitch
pauses a moment, as if deciding something. "He says he'd
like to see you."
I'm on a frosting sailboat, tossed around by blue-green
waves, the deck shifting beneath my feet. My palms press
into the wall to steady myself. This wasn't part of the plan. I
wrote Peeta off in 2. Then I was to go to the Capitol, kill
Snow, and get taken out myself. The gunshot was only a
temporary setback. Never was I supposed to hear the
words He says he'd like to see you. But now that I have,
there's no way to refuse.
At midnight, I'm standing outside the door to his cell.
Hospital room. We had to wait for Plutarch to finish getting
his wedding footage, which, despite the lack of what he
calls razzle-dazzle, he's pleased with. "The best thing about
the Capitol basically ignoring Twelve all these years is that
you people still have a little spontaneity. The audience eats
that up. Like when Peeta announced he was in love with
you or you did the trick with the berries. Makes for good
television."
I wish I could meet with Peeta privately. But the
audience of doctors has assembled behind the one-way
glass, clipboards ready, pens poised. When Haymitch
gives me the okay in my earpiece, I slowly open the door.
Those blue eyes lock on me instantly. He's got three
restraints on each arm, and a tube that can dispense a
knockout drug just in case he loses control. He doesn't fight
to free himself, though, only observes me with the wary look
of someone who still hasn't ruled out that he's in the
presence of a mutt. I walk over until I'm standing about a
yard from the bed. There's nothing to do with my hands, so I
cross my arms protectively over my ribs before I speak.
"Hey."
"Hey," he responds. It's like his voice, almost his voice,
except there's something new in it. An edge of suspicion
and reproach.
"Haymitch said you wanted to talk to me," I say.
"Look at you, for starters." It's like he's waiting for me
to transform into a hybrid drooling wolf right before his
eyes. He stares so long I find myself casting furtive glances
at the one-way glass, hoping for some direction from
Haymitch, but my earpiece stays silent. "You're not very big,
are you? Or particularly pretty?"
I know he's been through hell and back, and yet
somehow the observation rubs me the wrong way. "Well,
you've looked better."
Haymitch's advice to back off gets muffled by Peeta's
laughter. "And not even remotely nice. To say that to me
after all I've been through."
"Yeah. We've all been through a lot. And you're the one
who was known for being nice. Not me." I'm doing
everything wrong. I don't know why I feel so defensive. He's
been tortured! He's been hijacked! What's wrong with me?
Suddenly, I think I might start screaming at him--I'm not even
sure about what--so I decide to get out of there. "Look, I
don't feel so well. Maybe I'll drop by tomorrow."
I've just reached the door when his voice stops me.
"Katniss. I remember about the bread."
The bread. Our one moment of real connection before
the Hunger Games.
"They showed you the tape of me talking about it," I
say.
"No. Is there a tape of you talking about it? Why didn't
the Capitol use it against me?" he asks.
"I made it the day you were rescued," I answer. The
pain in my chest wraps around my ribs like a vise. The
dancing was a mistake. "So what do you remember?"
"You. In the rain," he says softly. "Digging in our trash
bins. Burning the bread. My mother hitting me. Taking the
bread out for the pig but then giving it to you instead."
"That's it. That's what happened," I say. "The next day,
after school, I wanted to thank you. But I didn't know how."
"We were outside at the end of the day. I tried to catch
your eye. You looked away. And then...for some reason, I
think you picked a dandelion." I nod. He does remember. I
have never spoken about that moment aloud. "I must have
loved you a lot."
"You did." My voice catches and I pretend to cough.
"And did you love me?" he asks.
I keep my eyes on the tiled floor. "Everyone says I did.
Everyone says that's why Snow had you tortured. To break
me."
"That's not an answer," he tells me. "I don't know what
to think when they show me some of the tapes. In that first
arena, it looked like you tried to kill me with those tracker
jackers."
"I was trying to kill all of you," I say. "You had me treed."
"Later, there's a lot of kissing. Didn't seem very
genuine on your part. Did you like kissing me?" he asks.
"Sometimes," I admit. "You know people are watching
us now?"
"I know. What about Gale?" he continues.
My anger's returning. I don't care about his recovery--
this isn't the business of the people behind the glass. "He's
not a bad kisser either," I say shortly.
"And it was okay with both of us? You kissing the
other?" he asks.
"No. It wasn't okay with either of you. But I wasn't
asking your permission," I tell him.
Peeta laughs again, coldly, dismissively. "Well, you're
a piece of work, aren't you?"
Haymitch doesn't protest when I walk out. Down the
hall. Through the beehive of compartments. Find a warm
pipe to hide behind in a laundry room. It takes a long time
before I get to the bottom of why I'm so upset. When I do,
it's almost too mortifying to admit. All those months of
taking it for granted that Peeta thought I was wonderful are
over. Finally, he can see me for who I really am. Violent.
Distrustful. Manipulative. Deadly.
And I hate him for it.
17
Blindsided. That's how I feel when Haymitch tells me in
the hospital. I fly down the steps to Command, mind racing
a mile a minute, and burst right into a war meeting.
"What do you mean, I'm not going to the Capitol? I
have to go! I'm the Mockingjay!" I say.
Coin barely looks up from her screen. "And as the
Mockingjay, your primary goal of unifying the districts
against the Capitol has been achieved. Don't worry--if it
goes well, we'll fly you in for the surrender."
The surrender?
"That'll be too late! I'll miss all the fighting. You need
me--I'm the best shot you've got!" I shout. I don't usually
brag about this, but it's got to be at least close to true.
"Gale's going."
"Gale has shown up for training every day unless
occupied with other approved duties. We feel confident he
can manage himself in the field," says Coin. "How many
training sessions do you estimate you've attended?"
None. That's how many. "Well, sometimes I was
hunting. And...I trained with Beetee down in Special
Weaponry."
"It's not the same, Katniss," says Boggs. "We all know
you're smart and brave and a good shot. But we need
soldiers in the field. You don't know the first thing about
executing orders, and you're not exactly at your physical
peak."
"That didn't bother you when I was in Eight. Or Two, for
that matter," I counter.
"You weren't originally authorized for combat in either
case," says Plutarch, shooting me a look that signals I'm
about to reveal too much.
No, the bomber battle in 8 and my intervention in 2
were spontaneous, rash, and definitely unauthorized.
"And both resulted in your injury," Boggs reminds me.
Suddenly, I see myself through his eyes. A smallish
seventeen-year-old girl who can't quite catch her breath
since her ribs haven't fully healed. Disheveled.
Undisciplined. Recuperating. Not a soldier, but someone
who needs to be looked after.
"But I have to go," I say.
"Why?" asks Coin.
I can't very well say it's so I can carry out my own
personal vendetta against Snow. Or that the idea of
remaining here in 13 with the latest version of Peeta while
Gale goes off to fight is unbearable. But I have no shortage
of reasons to want to fight in the Capitol. "Because of
Twelve. Because they destroyed my district."
The president thinks about this a moment. Considers
me. "Well, you have three weeks. It's not long, but you can
begin training. If the Assignment Board deems you fit,
possibly your case will be reviewed."
That's it. That's the most I can hope for. I guess it's my
own fault. I did blow off my schedule every single day unless
something suited me. It didn't seem like much of a priority,
jogging around a field with a gun with so many other things
going on. And now I'm paying for my negligence.
Back in the hospital, I find Johanna in the same
circumstance and spitting mad. I tell her about what Coin
said. "Maybe you can train, too."
"Fine. I'll train. But I'm going to the stinking Capitol if I
have to kill a crew and fly there myself," says Johanna.
"Probably best not to bring that up in training," I say.
"But it's nice to know I'll have a ride."
Johanna grins, and I feel a slight but significant shift in
our relationship. I don't know that we're actually friends, but
possibly the word allies would be accurate. That's good. I'm
going to need an ally.
The next morning, when we report for training at 7:30,
reality slaps me in the face. We've been funneled into a
class of relative beginners, fourteen- or fifteen-year-olds,
which seems a little insulting until it's obvious that they're in
far better condition than we are. Gale and the other people
already chosen to go to the Capitol are in a different,
accelerated phase of training. After we stretch--which hurts-
-there's a couple of hours of strengthening exercises--which
hurt--and a five-mile run--which kills. Even with Johanna's
motivational insults driving me on, I have to drop out after a
mile.
"It's my ribs," I explain to the trainer, a no-nonsense
middle-aged woman we're supposed to address as
Soldier York. "They're still bruised."
"Well, I'll tell you, Soldier Everdeen, those are going to
take at least another month to heal up on their own," she
says.I shake my head. "I don't have a month."
She looks me up and down. "The doctors haven't
offered you any treatment?"
"Is there a treatment?" I ask. "They said they had to
mend naturally."
"That's what they say. But they could speed up the
process if I recommend it. I warn you, though, it isn't any
fun," she tells me.
"Please. I've got to get to the Capitol," I say.
Soldier York doesn't question this. She scribbles
something on a pad and sends me directly back to the
hospital. I hesitate. I don't want to miss any more training.
"I'll be back for the afternoon session," I promise. She just
purses her lips.
Twenty-four needle jabs to my rib cage later, I'm
flattened out on my hospital bed, gritting my teeth to keep
from begging them to bring back my morphling drip. It's
been by my bed so I can take a hit as needed. I haven't
used it lately, but I kept it for Johanna's sake. Today they
tested my blood to make sure it was clean of the painkiller,
as the mixture of the two drugs--the morphling and
whatever's set my ribs on fire--has dangerous side effects.
They made it clear I would have a difficult couple of days.
But I told them to go ahead.
It's a bad night in our room. Sleep's out of the question.
I think I can actually smell the ring of flesh around my chest
burning, and Johanna's fighting off withdrawal symptoms.
Early on, when I apologize about cutting off her morphling
supply, she waves it off, saying it had to happen anyway.
But by three in the morning, I'm the target of every colorful
bit of profanity District 7 has to offer. At dawn, she drags
me out of bed, determined to get to training.
"I don't think I can do it," I confess.
"You can do it. We both can. We're victors,
remember? We're the ones who can survive anything they
throw at us," she snarls at me. She's a sick greenish color,
shaking like a leaf. I get dressed.
We must be victors to make it through the morning. I
think I'm going to lose Johanna when we realize it's pouring
outside. Her face turns ashen and she seems to have
ceased breathing.
"It's just water. It won't kill us," I say. She clenches her
jaw and stomps out into the mud. Rain drenches us as we
work our bodies and then slog around the running course. I
bail after a mile again, and I have to resist the temptation to
take off my shirt so the cold water can sizzle off my ribs. I
force down my field lunch of soggy fish and beet stew.
Johanna gets halfway through her bowl before it comes
back up. In the afternoon, we learn to assemble our guns. I
manage it, but Johanna can't hold her hands steady enough
to fit the parts together. When York's back is turned, I help
her out. Even though the rain continues, the afternoon's an
improvement because we're on the shooting range. At last,
something I'm good at. It takes some adjusting from a bow
to a gun, but by the end of the day, I've got the best score in
my class.
We're just inside the hospital doors when Johanna
declares, "This has to stop. Us living in the hospital.
Everyone views us as patients."
It's not a problem for me. I can move into our family
compartment, but Johanna's never been assigned one.
When she tries to get discharged from the hospital, they
won't agree to let her live alone, even if she comes in for
daily talks with the head doctor. I think they may have put
two and two together about the morphling and this only
adds to their view that she's unstable. "She won't be alone.
I'm going to room with her," I announce. There's some
dissent, but Haymitch takes our part, and by bedtime, we
have a compartment across from Prim and my mother, who
agrees to keep an eye on us.
After I take a shower, and Johanna sort of wipes
herself down with a damp cloth, she makes a cursory
inspection of the place. When she opens the drawer that
holds my few possessions, she shuts it quickly. "Sorry."
I think how there's nothing in Johanna's drawer but her
government-issued clothes. That she doesn't have one
thing in the world to call her own. "It's okay. You can look at
my stuff if you want."
Johanna unlatches my locket, studying the pictures of
Gale, Prim, and my mother. She opens the silver parachute
and pulls out the spile and slips it onto her pinkie. "Makes
me thirsty just looking at it." Then she finds the pearl Peeta
gave me. "Is this--?"
"Yeah," I say. "Made it through somehow." I don't want
to talk about Peeta. One of the best things about training is,
it keeps me from thinking of him.
"Haymitch says he's getting better," she says.
"Maybe. But he's changed," I say.
"So have you. So have I. And Finnick and Haymitch
and Beetee. Don't get me started on Annie Cresta. The
arena messed us all up pretty good, don't you think? Or do
you still feel like the girl who volunteered for your sister?"
she asks me.
"No," I answer.
"That's the one thing I think my head doctor might be
right about. There's no going back. So we might as well get
on with things." She neatly returns my keepsakes to the
drawer and climbs into the bed across from me just as the
lights go out. "You're not afraid I'll kill you tonight?"
"Like I couldn't take you," I answer. Then we laugh,
since both our bodies are so wrecked, it will be a miracle if
we can get up the next day. But we do. Each morning, we
do. And by the end of the week, my ribs feel almost like
new, and Johanna can assemble her rifle without help.
Soldier York gives the pair of us an approving nod as
we knock off for the day. "Fine job, Soldiers."
When we move out of hearing, Johanna mutters, "I
think winning the Games was easier." But the look on her
face says she's pleased.
In fact, we're almost in good spirits when we go to the
dining hall, where Gale's waiting to eat with me. Receiving
a giant serving of beef stew doesn't hurt my mood either.
"First shipments of food arrived this morning," Greasy Sae
tells me. "That's real beef, from District Ten. Not any of your
wild dog."
"Don't remember you turning it down," Gale tosses
back. We join a group that includes Delly, Annie, and
Finnick. It's something to see Finnick's transformation since
his marriage. His earlier incarnations--the decadent Capitol
heartthrob I met before the Quell, the enigmatic ally in the
arena, the broken young man who tried to help me hold it
together--these have been replaced by someone who
radiates life. Finnick's real charms of self-effacing humor
and an easygoing nature are on display for the first time.
He never lets go of Annie's hand. Not when they walk, not
when they eat. I doubt he ever plans to. She's lost in some
daze of happiness. There are still moments when you can
tell something slips in her brain and another world blinds
her to us. But a few words from Finnick call her back.
Delly, who I've known since I was little but never gave
much thought to, has grown in my estimation. She was told
what Peeta said to me that night after the wedding, but
she's not a gossip. Haymitch says she's the best defender I
have when Peeta goes off on some kind of tear about me.
Always taking my side, blaming his negative perceptions
on the Capitol's torture. She has more influence on him than
any of the others do, because he really does know her.
Anyway, even if she's sugarcoating my good points, I
appreciate it. Frankly, I could use a little sugarcoating.
I'm starving and the stew is so delicious--beef,
potatoes, turnips, and onions in a thick gravy--that I have to
force myself to slow down. All around the dining hall, you
can feel the rejuvenating effect that a good meal can bring
on. The way it can make people kinder, funnier, more
optimistic, and remind them it's not a mistake to go on
living. It's better than any medicine. So I try to make it last
and join in the conversation. Sop up the gravy on my bread
and nibble on it as I listen to Finnick telling some ridiculous
story about a sea turtle swimming off with his hat. Laugh
before I realize he's standing there. Directly across the
table, behind the empty seat next to Johanna. Watching
me. I choke momentarily as the gravy bread sticks in my
throat.
"Peeta!" says Delly. "It's so nice to see you out...and
about."
Two large guards stand behind him. He holds his tray
awkwardly, balanced on his fingertips since his wrists are
shackled with a short chain between them.
"What's with the fancy bracelets?" asks Johanna.
"I'm not quite trustworthy yet," says Peeta. "I can't even
sit here without your permission." He indicates the guards
with his head.
"Sure he can sit here. We're old friends," says
Johanna, patting the space beside her. The guards nod
and Peeta takes a seat. "Peeta and I had adjoining cells in
the Capitol. We're very familiar with each other's screams."
Annie, who's on Johanna's other side, does that thing
where she covers her ears and exits reality. Finnick shoots
Johanna an angry look as his arm encircles Annie.
"What? My head doctor says I'm not supposed to
censor my thoughts. It's part of my therapy," replies
Johanna.
The life has gone out of our little party. Finnick
murmurs things to Annie until she slowly removes her
hands. Then there's a long silence while people pretend to
eat.
"Annie," says Delly brightly, "did you know it was
Peeta who decorated your wedding cake? Back home, his
family ran the bakery and he did all the icing."
Annie cautiously looks across Johanna. "Thank you,
Peeta. It was beautiful."
"My pleasure, Annie," says Peeta, and I hear that old
note of gentleness in his voice that I thought was gone
forever. Not that it's directed at me. But still.
"If we're going to fit in that walk, we better go," Finnick
tells her. He arranges both of their trays so he can carry
them in one hand while holding tightly to her with the other.
"Good seeing you, Peeta."
"You be nice to her, Finnick. Or I might try and take her
away from you." It could be a joke, if the tone wasn't so
cold. Everything it conveys is wrong. The open distrust of
Finnick, the implication that Peeta has his eye on Annie,
that Annie could desert Finnick, that I do not even exist.
"Oh, Peeta," says Finnick lightly. "Don't make me sorry
I restarted your heart." He leads Annie away after giving me
a concerned glance.
When they're gone, Delly says in a reproachful voice,
"He did save your life, Peeta. More than once."
"For her." He gives me a brief nod. "For the rebellion.
Not for me. I don't owe him anything."
I shouldn't rise to the bait, but I do. "Maybe not. But
Mags is dead and you're still here. That should count for
something."
"Yeah, a lot of things should count for something that
don't seem to, Katniss. I've got some memories I can't
make sense of, and I don't think the Capitol touched them.
A lot of nights on the train, for instance," he says.
Again the implications. That more happened on the
train than did. That what did happen--those nights I only
kept my sanity because his arms were around me--no
longer matters. Everything a lie, everything a way of
misusing him.
Peeta makes a little gesture with his spoon,
connecting Gale and me. "So, are you two officially a
couple now, or are they still dragging out the star-crossed
lover thing?"
"Still dragging," says Johanna.
Spasms cause Peeta's hands to tighten into fists, then
splay out in a bizarre fashion. Is it all he can do to keep
them from my neck? I can feel the tension in Gale's muscles
next to me, fear an altercation. But Gale simply says, "I
wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it myself."
"What's that?" asks Peeta.
"You," Gale answers.
"You'll have to be a little more specific," says Peeta.
"What about me?"
"That they've replaced you with the evil-mutt version of
yourself," says Johanna.
Gale finishes his milk. "You done?" he asks me. I rise
and we cross to drop off our trays. At the door, an old man
stops me because I'm still clutching the rest of my gravy
bread in my hand. Something in my expression, or maybe
the fact that I've made no attempt to conceal it, makes him
go easy on me. He lets me stuff the bread in my mouth and
move on. Gale and I are almost to my compartment when
he speaks again. "I didn't expect that."
"I told you he hated me," I say.
"It's the way he hates you. It's so...familiar. I used to feel
like that," he admits. "When I'd watch you kissing him on the
screen. Only I knew I wasn't being entirely fair. He can't see
that."
We reach my door. "Maybe he just sees me as I really
am. I have to get some sleep."
Gale catches my arm before I can disappear. "So
that's what you're thinking now?" I shrug. "Katniss, as your
oldest friend, believe me when I say he's not seeing you as
you really are." He kisses my cheek and goes.
I sit on my bed, trying to stuff information from my
Military Tactics books into my head while memories of my
nights with Peeta on the train distract me. After about
twenty minutes, Johanna comes in and throws herself
across the foot of my bed. "You missed the best part. Delly
lost her temper at Peeta over how he treated you. She got
very squeaky. It was like someone stabbing a mouse with a
fork repeatedly. The whole dining hall was riveted."
"What'd Peeta do?" I ask.
"He started arguing with himself like he was two
people. The guards had to take him away. On the good
side, no one seemed to notice I finished his stew." Johanna
rubs her hand over her protruding belly. I look at the layer of
grime under her fingernails. Wonder if the people in 7 ever
bathe. We spend a couple of hours quizzing each other on
military terms. I visit my mother and Prim for a while. When
I'm back in my compartment, showered, staring into the
darkness, I finally ask, "Johanna, could you really hear him
screaming?"
"That was part of it," she says. "Like the jabberjays in
the arena. Only it was real. And it didn't stop after an hour.
Tick, tock."
"Tick, tock," I whisper back.
Roses. Wolf mutts. Tributes. Frosted dolphins.
Friends. Mockingjays. Stylists. Me.
Everything screams in my dreams tonight.
18
I throw myself into training with a vengeance. Eat, live,
and breathe the workouts, drills, weapons practice, lectures
on tactics. A handful of us are moved into an additional
class that gives me hope I may be a contender for the
actual war. The soldiers simply call it the Block, but the
tattoo on my arm lists it as S.S.C., short for Simulated
Street Combat. Deep in 13, they've built an artificial Capitol
city block. The instructor breaks us into squads of eight and
we attempt to carry out missions--gaining a position,
destroying a target, searching a home--as if we were really
fighting our way through the Capitol. The thing's rigged so
that everything that can go wrong for you does. A false step
triggers a land mine, a sniper appears on a rooftop, your
gun jams, a crying child leads you into an ambush, your
squadron leader--who's just a voice on the program--gets
hit by a mortar and you have to figure out what to do without
orders. Part of you knows it's fake and that they're not going
to kill you. If you set off a land mine, you hear the explosion
and have to pretend to fall over dead. But in other ways, it
feels pretty real in there--the enemy soldiers dressed in
Peacekeepers' uniforms, the confusion of a smoke bomb.
They even gas us. Johanna and I are the only ones who get
our masks on in time. The rest of our squad gets knocked
out for ten minutes. And the supposedly harmless gas I took
a few lungfuls of gives me a wicked headache for the rest
of the day.
Cressida and her crew tape Johanna and me on the
firing range. I know Gale and Finnick are being filmed as
well. It's part of a new propos series to show the rebels
preparing for the Capitol invasion. On the whole, things are
going pretty well.
Then Peeta starts showing up for our morning
workouts. The manacles are off, but he's still constantly
accompanied by a pair of guards. After lunch, I see him
across the field, drilling with a group of beginners. I don't
know what they're thinking. If a spat with Delly can reduce
him to arguing with himself, he's got no business learning
how to assemble a gun.
When I confront Plutarch, he assures me that it's all for
the camera. They've got footage of Annie getting married
and Johanna hitting targets, but all of Panem is wondering
about Peeta. They need to see he's fighting for the rebels,
not for Snow. And maybe if they could just get a couple of
shots of the two of us, not kissing necessarily, just looking
happy to be back together--
I walk away from the conversation right then. That is not
going to happen.
In my rare moments of downtime, I anxiously watch the
preparations for the invasions. See equipment and
provisions readied, divisions assembled. You can tell when
someone's received orders because they're given a very
short haircut, the mark of a person going into battle. There
is much talk of the opening offensive, which will be to
secure the train tunnels that feed up into the Capitol.
Just a few days before the first troops are to move out,
York unexpectedly tells Johanna and me she's
recommended us for the exam, and we're to report
immediately. There are four parts: an obstacle course that
assesses your physical condition, a written tactics exam, a
test of weapons proficiency, and a simulated combat
situation in the Block. I don't even have time to get nervous
for the first three and do well, but there's a backlog at the
Block. Some kind of technical bug they're working out. A
group of us exchanges information. This much seems true.
You go through alone. There's no predicting what situation
you'll be thrown into. One boy says, under his breath, that
he's heard it's designed to target each individual's
weaknesses.
My weaknesses? That's a door I don't even want to
open. But I find a quiet spot and try to assess what they
might be. The length of the list depresses me. Lack of
physical brute force. A bare minimum of training. And
somehow my stand-out status as the Mockingjay doesn't
seem to be an advantage in a situation where they're trying
to get us to blend into a pack. They could nail me to the wall
on any number of things.
Johanna's called three ahead of me, and I give her a
nod of encouragement. I wish I had been at the top of the
list because now I'm really overthinking the whole thing. By
the time my name's called, I don't know what my strategy
should be. Fortunately, once I'm in the Block, a certain
amount of training does kick in. It's an ambush situation.
Peacekeepers appear almost instantly and I have to make
my way to a rendezvous point to meet up with my scattered
squad. I slowly navigate the street, taking out
Peacekeepers as I go. Two on the rooftop to my left,
another in the doorway up ahead. It's challenging, but not as
hard as I was expecting. There's a nagging feeling that if it's
too simple, I must be missing the point. I'm within a couple
of buildings from my goal when things begin to heat up. A
half dozen Peacekeepers come charging around the
corner. They will outgun me, but I notice something. A drum
of gasoline lying carelessly in the gutter. This is it. My test.
To perceive that blowing up the drum will be the only way to
achieve my mission. Just as I step out to do it, my squadron
leader, who's been fairly useless up to this point, quietly
orders me to hit the ground. Every instinct I have screams
for me to ignore the voice, to pull the trigger, to blow the
Peacekeepers sky-high. And suddenly, I realize what the
military will think my biggest weakness is. From my first
moment in the Games, when I ran for that orange
backpack, to the firefight in 8, to my impulsive race across
the square in 2. I cannot take orders.
I smack into the ground so hard and fast, I'll be picking
gravel out of my chin for a week. Someone else blows the
gas tank. The Peacekeepers die. I make my rendezvous
point. When I exit the Block on the far side, a soldier
congratulates me, stamps my hand with squad number
451, and tells me to report to Command. Almost giddy with
success, I run through the halls, skidding around corners,
bounding down the steps because the elevator's too slow. I
bang into the room before the oddity of the situation dawns
on me. I shouldn't be in Command; I should be getting my
hair buzzed. The people around the table aren't freshly
minted soldiers but the ones calling the shots.
Boggs smiles and shakes his head when he sees me.
"Let's see it." Unsure now, I hold out my stamped hand.
"You're with me. It's a special unit of sharpshooters. Join
your squad." He nods over at a group lining the wall. Gale.
Finnick. Five others I don't know. My squad. I'm not only in, I
get to work under Boggs. With my friends. I force myself to
take calm, soldierly steps to join them, instead of jumping
up and down.
We must be important, too, because we're in
Command, and it has nothing to do with a certain
Mockingjay. Plutarch stands over a wide, flat panel in the
center of the table. He's explaining something about the
nature of what we will encounter in the Capitol. I'm thinking
this is a terrible presentation--because even on tiptoe I
can't see what's on the panel--until he hits a button. A
holographic image of a block of the Capitol projects into
the air.
"This, for example, is the area surrounding one of the
Peacekeepers' barracks. Not unimportant, but not the most
crucial of targets, and yet look." Plutarch enters some sort
of code on a keyboard, and lights begin to flash. They're in
an assortment of colors and blink at different speeds.
"Each light is called a pod. It represents a different
obstacle, the nature of which could be anything from a
bomb to a band of mutts. Make no mistake, whatever it
contains is designed to either trap or kill you. Some have
been in place since the Dark Days, others developed over
the years. To be honest, I created a fair number myself.
This program, which one of our people absconded with
when we left the Capitol, is our most recent information.
They don't know we have it. But even so, it's likely that new
pods have been activated in the last few months. This is
what you will face."
I'm unaware that my feet are moving to the table until
I'm inches from the holograph. My hand reaches in and
cups a rapidly blinking green light.
Someone joins me, his body tense. Finnick, of course.
Because only a victor would see what I see so immediately.
The arena. Laced with pods controlled by Gamemakers.
Finnick's fingers caress a steady red glow over a doorway.
"Ladies and gentlemen..."
His voice is quiet, but mine rings through the room.
"Let the Seventy-sixth Hunger Games begin!"
I laugh. Quickly. Before anyone has time to register
what lies beneath the words I have just uttered. Before
eyebrows are raised, objections are uttered, two and two
are put together, and the solution is that I should be kept as
far away from the Capitol as possible. Because an angry,
independently thinking victor with a layer of psychological
scar tissue too thick to penetrate is maybe the last person
you want on your squad.
"I don't even know why you bothered to put Finnick and
me through training, Plutarch," I say.
"Yeah, we're already the two best-equipped soldiers
you have," Finnick adds cockily.
"Do not think that fact escapes me," he says with an
impatient wave. "Now back in line, Soldiers Odair and
Everdeen. I have a presentation to finish."
We retreat to our places, ignoring the questioning
looks thrown our way. I adopt an attitude of extreme
concentration as Plutarch continues, nodding my head here
and there, shifting my position to get a better view, all the
while telling myself to hang on until I can get to the woods
and scream. Or curse. Or cry. Or maybe all three at once.
If this was a test, Finnick and I both pass it. When
Plutarch finishes and the meeting's adjourned, I have a bad
moment when I learn there's a special order for me. But it's
merely that I skip the military haircut because they would
like the Mockingjay to look as much like the girl in the arena
as possible at the anticipated surrender. For the cameras,
you know. I shrug to communicate that my hair length's a
matter of complete indifference to me. They dismiss me
without further comment.
Finnick and I gravitate toward each other in the
hallway. "What will I tell Annie?" he says under his breath.
"Nothing," I answer. "That's what my mother and sister
will be hearing from me." Bad enough that we know we're
heading back into a fully equipped arena. No use dropping
it on our loved ones.
"If she sees that holograph--" he begins.
"She won't. It's classified information. It must be," I say.
"Anyway, it's not like an actual Games. Any number of
people will survive. We're just overreacting because--well,
you know why. You still want to go, don't you?"
"Of course. I want to destroy Snow as much as you
do," he says.
"It won't be like the others," I say firmly, trying to
convince myself as well. Then the real beauty of the
situation dawns on me. "This time Snow will be a player,
too."
Before we can continue, Haymitch appears. He wasn't
at the meeting, isn't thinking of arenas but something else.
"Johanna's back in the hospital."
I assumed Johanna was fine, had passed her exam,
but simply wasn't assigned to a sharpshooters' unit. She's
wicked throwing an ax but about average with a gun. "Is she
hurt? What happened?"
"It was while she was on the Block. They try to ferret
out a soldier's potential weaknesses. So they flooded the
street," says Haymitch.
This doesn't help. Johanna can swim. At least, I seem
to remember her swimming around some in the Quarter
Quell. Not like Finnick, of course, but none of us are like
Finnick. "So?"
"That's how they tortured her in the Capitol. Soaked
her and then used electric shocks," says Haymitch. "In the
Block she had some kind of flashback. Panicked, didn't
know where she was. She's back under sedation." Finnick
and I just stand there, as if we've lost the ability to respond. I
think of the way Johanna never showers. How she forced
herself into the rain like it was acid that day. I had attributed
her misery to the morphling withdrawal.
"You two should go see her. You're as close to friends
as she's got," says Haymitch.
That makes the whole thing worse. I don't really know
what's between Johanna and Finnick. But I hardly know her.
No family. No friends. Not so much as a token from 7 to set
beside her regulation clothes in her anonymous drawer.
Nothing.
"I better go tell Plutarch. He won't be happy," Haymitch
continues. "He wants as many victors as possible for the
cameras to follow in the Capitol. Thinks it makes for better
television."
"Are you and Beetee going?" I ask.
"As many young and attractive victors as possible,"
Haymitch corrects himself. "So, no. We'll be here."
Finnick goes directly down to see Johanna, but I linger
outside a few minutes until Boggs comes out. He's my
commander now, so I guess he's the one to ask for any
special favors. When I tell him what I want to do, he writes
me a pass so that I can go to the woods during Reflection,
provided I stay within sight of the guards. I run to my
compartment, thinking to use the parachute, but it's so full of
ugly memories. Instead, I go across the hall and take one of
the white cotton bandages I brought from 12. Square.
Sturdy. Just the thing.
In the woods, I find a pine tree and strip handfuls of
fragrant needles from the boughs. After making a neat pile
in the middle of the bandage, I gather up the sides, give
them a twist, and tie them tightly with a length of vine,
making an apple-sized bundle.
At the hospital room door, I watch Johanna for a
moment, realize that most of her ferocity is in her abrasive
attitude. Stripped of that, as she is now, there's only a slight
young woman, her wide-set eyes fighting to stay awake
against the power of the drugs. Terrified of what sleep will
bring. I cross to her and hold out the bundle.
"What's that?" she says hoarsely. Damp edges of her
hair form little spikes over her forehead.
"I made it for you. Something to put in your drawer." I
place it in her hands. "Smell it."
She lifts the bundle to her nose and takes a tentative
sniff. "Smells like home." Tears flood her eyes.
"That's what I was hoping. You being from Seven and
all," I say. "Remember when we met? You were a tree.
Well, briefly."
Suddenly, she has my wrist in an iron grip. "You have
to kill him, Katniss."
"Don't worry." I resist the temptation to wrench my arm
free.
"Swear it. On something you care about," she hisses.
"I swear it. On my life." But she doesn't let go of my
arm.
"On your family's life," she insists.
"On my family's life," I repeat. I guess my concern for
my own survival isn't compelling enough. She lets go and I
rub my wrist. "Why do you think I'm going, anyway,
brainless?"
That makes her smile a little. "I just needed to hear it."
She presses the bundle of pine needles to her nose and
closes her eyes.
The remaining days go by in a whirl. After a brief
workout each morning, my squad's on the shooting range
full-time in training. I practice mostly with a gun, but they
reserve an hour a day for specialty weapons, which means I
get to use my Mockingjay bow, Gale his heavy militarized
one. The trident Beetee designed for Finnick has a lot of
special features, but the most remarkable is that he can
throw it, press a button on a metal cuff on his wrist, and
return it to his hand without chasing it down.
Sometimes we shoot at Peacekeeper dummies to
become familiar with the weaknesses in their protective
gear. The chinks in the armor, so to speak. If you hit flesh,
you're rewarded with a burst of fake blood. Our dummies
are soaked in red.
It's reassuring to see just how high the overall level of
accuracy is in our group. Along with Finnick and Gale, the
squad includes five soldiers from 13. Jackson, a middleaged
woman who's Boggs's second in command, looks
kind of sluggish but can hit things the rest of us can't even
see without a scope. Farsighted, she says. There's a pair
of sisters in their twenties named Leeg--we call them Leeg
1 and Leeg 2 for clarity--who are so similar in uniform, I
can't tell them apart until I notice Leeg 1 has weird yellow
flecks in her eyes. Two older guys, Mitchell and Homes,
never say much but can shoot the dust off your boots at fifty
yards. I see other squads that are also quite good, but I
don't fully understand our status until the morning Plutarch
joins us.
"Squad Four-Five-One, you have been selected for a
special mission," he begins. I bite the inside of my lip,
hoping against hope that it's to assassinate Snow. "We
have numerous sharpshooters, but rather a dearth of
camera crews. Therefore, we've handpicked the eight of
you to be what we call our 'Star Squad.' You will be the onscreen
faces of the invasion."
Disappointment, shock, then anger run through the
group. "What you're saying is, we won't be in actual
combat," snaps Gale.
"You will be in combat, but perhaps not always on the
front line. If one can even isolate a front line in this type of
war," says Plutarch.
"None of us wants that." Finnick's remark is followed
by a general rumble of assent, but I stay silent. "We're
going to fight."
"You're going to be as useful to the war effort as
possible," Plutarch says. "And it's been decided that you
are of most value on television. Just look at the effect
Katniss had running around in that Mockingjay suit. Turned
the whole rebellion around. Do you notice how she's the
only one not complaining? It's because she understands the
power of that screen."
Actually, Katniss isn't complaining because she has no
intention of staying with the "Star Squad," but she
recognizes the necessity of getting to the Capitol before
carrying out any plan. Still, to be too compliant may arouse
suspicion as well.
"But it's not all pretend, is it?" I ask. "That'd be a waste
of talent."
"Don't worry," Plutarch tells me. "You'll have plenty of
real targets to hit. But don't get blown up. I've got enough on
my plate without having to replace you. Now get to the
Capitol and put on a good show."
The morning we ship out, I say good-bye to my family. I
haven't told them how much the Capitol's defenses mirror
the weapons in the arena, but my going off to war is awful
enough on its own. My mother holds me tightly for a long
time. I feel tears on her cheek, something she suppressed
when I was slated for the Games. "Don't worry. I'll be
perfectly safe. I'm not even a real soldier. Just one of
Plutarch's televised puppets," I reassure her.
Prim walks me as far as the hospital doors. "How do
you feel?"
"Better, knowing you're somewhere Snow can't reach
you," I say.
"Next time we see each other, we'll be free of him,"
says Prim firmly. Then she throws her arms around my
neck. "Be careful."
I consider saying a final good-bye to Peeta, decide it
would only be bad for both of us. But I do slip the pearl into
the pocket of my uniform. A token of the boy with the bread.
A hovercraft takes us to, of all places, 12, where a
makeshift transportation area has been set up outside the
fire zone. No luxury trains this time, but a cargo car packed
to the limit with soldiers in their dark gray uniforms,
sleeping with their heads on their packs. After a couple of
days' travel, we disembark inside one of the mountain
tunnels leading to the Capitol, and make the rest of the sixhour
trek on foot, taking care to step only on a glowing
green paint line that marks safe passage to the air above.
We come out in the rebel encampment, a ten-block
stretch outside the train station where Peeta and I made
our previous arrivals. It's already crawling with soldiers.
Squad 451 is assigned a spot to pitch its tents. This area
has been secured for over a week. Rebels pushed out the
Peacekeepers, losing hundreds of lives in the process. The
Capitol forces fell back and have regrouped farther into the
city. Between us lie the booby-trapped streets, empty and
inviting. Each one will need to be swept of pods before we
can advance.
Mitchell asks about hoverplane bombings--we do feel
very naked pitched out in the open--but Boggs says it's not
an issue. Most of the Capitol's air fleet was destroyed in 2
or during the invasion. If it has any craft left, it's holding on to
them. Probably so Snow and his inner circle can make a
last-minute escape to some presidential bunker
somewhere if needed. Our own hoverplanes were
grounded after the Capitol's antiaircraft missiles decimated
the first few waves. This war will be battled out on the
streets with, hopefully, only superficial damage to the
infrastructure and a minimum of human casualties. The
rebels want the Capitol, just as the Capitol wanted 13.
After three days, much of Squad 451 risks deserting
out of boredom. Cressida and her team take shots of us
firing. They tell us we're part of the disinformation team. If
the rebels only shoot Plutarch's pods, it will take the Capitol
about two minutes to realize we have the holograph. So
there's a lot of time spent shattering things that don't matter,
to throw them off the scent. Mostly we just add to the piles
of rainbow glass that's been blown off the exteriors of the
candy-colored buildings. I suspect they are intercutting this
footage with the destruction of significant Capitol targets.
Once in a while it seems a real sharpshooter's services are
needed. Eight hands go up, but Gale, Finnick, and I are
never chosen.
"It's your own fault for being so camera-ready," I tell
Gale. If looks could kill.
I don't think they quite know what to do with the three of
us, particularly me. I have my Mockingjay outfit with me, but
I've only been taped in my uniform. Sometimes I use a gun,
sometimes they ask me to shoot with my bow and arrows.
It's as if they don't want to entirely lose the Mockingjay, but
they want to downgrade my role to foot soldier. Since I don't
care, it's amusing rather than upsetting to imagine the
arguments going on back in 13.
While I outwardly express discontent about our lack of
any real participation, I'm busy with my own agenda. Each
of us has a paper map of the Capitol. The city forms an
almost perfect square. Lines divide the map into smaller
squares, with letters along the top and numbers down the
side to form a grid. I consume this, noting every intersection
and side street, but it's remedial stuff. The commanders
here are working off Plutarch's holograph. Each has a
handheld contraption called a Holo that produces images
like I saw in Command. They can zoom into any area of the
grid and see what pods await them. The Holo's an
independent unit, a glorified map really, since it can neither
send nor receive signals. But it's far superior to my paper
version.
A Holo is activated by a specific commander's voice
giving his or her name. Once it's working, it responds to the
other voices in the squadron so if, say, Boggs were killed
or severely disabled, someone could take over. If anyone in
the squad repeats "nightlock" three times in a row, the Holo
will explode, blowing everything in a five-yard radius skyhigh.
This is for security reasons in the event of capture. It's
understood that we would all do this without hesitation.
So what I need to do is steal Boggs's activated Holo
and clear out before he notices. I think it would be easier to
steal his teeth.
On the fourth morning, Soldier Leeg 2 hits a
mislabeled pod. It doesn't unleash a swarm of muttation
gnats, which the rebels are prepared for, but shoots out a
sunburst of metal darts. One finds her brain. She's gone
before the medics can reach her. Plutarch promises a
speedy replacement.
The following evening, the newest member of our
squad arrives. With no manacles. No guards. Strolling out
of the train station with his gun swinging from the strap over
his shoulder. There's shock, confusion, resistance, but 451
is stamped on the back of Peeta's hand in fresh ink. Boggs
relieves him of his weapon and goes to make a call.
"It won't matter," Peeta tells the rest of us. "The
