
So that was how his parents had died . . . exactly like 
that spider. Had they been unblemished and 
unmarked too? Had they simply seen the flash of 
green light and heard the rush of speeding death, 
before life was wiped from their bodies? 

Harry had been picturing his parents’ deaths over 
and over again for three years now, ever since he’d 
found out they had been murdered, ever since he’d 
found out what had happened that night: Wormtail 
had betrayed his parents’ whereabouts to Voldemort, 
who had come to find them at their cottage. How 
Voldemort had killed Harry’s father first. How James 
Potter had tried to hold him off, while he shouted at 
his wife to take Harry and run ... Voldemort had 
advanced on Lily Potter, told her to move aside so 
that he could kill Harry . . . how she had begged him to 
kill her instead, refused to stop shielding her son . . . 
and so Voldemort had murdered her too, before 
turning his wand on Harry. . . . 

Harry knew these details because he had heard his 
parents’ voices when he had fought the dementors 
last year — for that was the terrible power of the 
dementors: to force their victims to relive the worst 

Page | 240 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




memories of their lives, and drown, powerless, in their 
own despair. . . . 

Moody was speaking again, from a great distance, it 
seemed to Harry. With a massive effort, he pulled 
himself back to the present and listened to what 
Moody was saying. 

“Avada Kedavra’s a curse that needs a powerful bit of 
magic behind it — you could all get your wands out 
now and point them at me and say the words, and I 
doubt I’d get so much as a nosebleed. But that 
doesn’t matter. I’m not here to teach you how to do it. 

“Now, if there’s no countercurse, why am I showing 
you? Because you’ve got to know. You’ve got to 
appreciate what the worst is. You don’t want to find 
yourself in a situation where you’re facing it. 
CONSTANT VIGILANCE!” he roared, and the whole 
class jumped again. 

“Now ... those three curses — Avada Kedavra, 
Imperius, and Cruciatus — are known as the 
Unforgivable Curses. The use of any one of them on a 
fellow human being is enough to earn a life sentence 
in Azkaban. That’s what you’re up against. That’s 
what I’ve got to teach you to fight. You need 
preparing. You need arming. But most of all, you 
need to practice constant, never-ceasing vigilance. Get 
out your quills ... copy this down. ...” 

They spent the rest of the lesson taking notes on each 
of the Unforgivable Curses. No one spoke until the 
bell rang — but when Moody had dismissed them and 
they had left the classroom, a torrent of talk burst 
forth. Most people were discussing the curses in awed 
voices — “Did you see it twitch?” “ — and when he 
killed it — just like that!” 



Page | 241 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They were talking about the lesson, Harry thought, as 
though it had been some sort of spectacular show, 
but he hadn’t found it very entertaining — and nor, it 
seemed, had Hermione. 

“Hurry up,” she said tensely to Harry and Ron. 

“Not the ruddy library again?” said Ron. 

“No,” said Hermione curtly, pointing up a side 
passage. “Neville.” 

Neville was standing alone, halfway up the passage, 
staring at the stone wall opposite him with the same 
horrified, wide-eyed look he had worn when Moody 
had demonstrated the Cruciatus Curse. 

“Neville?” Hermione said gently. 

Neville looked around. 

“Oh hello,” he said, his voice much higher than usual. 
“Interesting lesson, wasn’t it? I wonder what’s for 
dinner, I’m — I’m starving, aren’t you?” 

“Neville, are you all right?” said Hermione. 

“Oh yes, I’m fine,” Neville gabbled in the same 
unnaturally high voice. “Very interesting dinner — I 
mean lesson — what’s for eating?” 

Ron gave Harry a startled look. 

“Neville, what — ?” 

But an odd clunking noise sounded behind them, and 
they turned to see Professor Moody limping toward 
them. All four of them fell silent, watching him 



Page | 242 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




apprehensively, but when he spoke, it was in a much 
lower and gentler growl than they had yet heard. 

“It’s all right, sonny,” he said to Neville. “Why don’t 
you come up to my office? Come on . . . we can have a 
cup of tea. ...” 

Neville looked even more frightened at the prospect of 
tea with Moody. He neither moved nor spoke. Moody 
turned his magical eye upon Harry. 

“You all right, are you, Potter?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, almost defiantly. 

Moody’s blue eye quivered slightly in its socket as it 
surveyed Harry. Then he said, “You’ve got to know. It 
seems harsh, maybe, but you’ve got to know. No point 
pretending ... well ... come on, Longbottom, I’ve got 
some books that might interest you.” 

Neville looked pleadingly at Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione, but they didn’t say anything, so Neville 
had no choice but to allow himself to be steered away, 
one of Moody’s gnarled hands on his shoulder. 

“What was that about?” said Ron, watching Neville 
and Moody turn the corner. 

“I don’t know,” said Hermione, looking pensive. 

“Some lesson, though, eh?” said Ron to Harry as they 
set off for the Great Hall. “Fred and George were right, 
weren’t they? He really knows his stuff, Moody, 
doesn’t he? When he did Avada Kedavra, the way that 
spider just died, just snuffed it right — ” 

But Ron fell suddenly silent at the look on Harry’s 
face and didn’t speak again until they reached the 

Page | 243 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Great Hall, when he said he supposed they had better 
make a start on Professor Trelawney’s predictions 
tonight, since they would take hours. 

Hermione did not join in with Harry and Ron’s 
conversation during dinner, but ate furiously fast, 
and then left for the library again. Harry and Ron 
walked back to Gryffindor Tower, and Harry, who had 
been thinking of nothing else all through dinner, now 
raised the subject of the Unforgivable Curses himself. 

“Wouldn’t Moody and Dumbledore be in trouble with 
the Ministry if they knew we’d seen the curses?” 

Harry asked as they approached the Fat Lady. 

“Yeah, probably,” said Ron. “But Dumbledore’s always 
done things his way, hasn’t he, and Moody’s been 
getting in trouble for years, I reckon. Attacks first and 
asks questions later — look at his dustbins. 
Balderdash.” 

The Fat Lady swung forward to reveal the entrance 
hole, and they climbed into the Gryffindor common 
room, which was crowded and noisy. 

“Shall we get our Divination stuff, then?” said Harry. 

“I s’pose,” Ron groaned. 

They went up to the dormitory to fetch their books 
and charts, to find Neville there alone, sitting on his 
bed, reading. He looked a good deal calmer than at 
the end of Moody’s lesson, though still not entirely 
normal. His eyes were rather red. 

“You all right, Neville?” Harry asked him. 

“Oh yes,” said Neville, “I’m fine, thanks. Just reading 
this book Professor Moody lent me. ...” 

Page | 244 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He held up the book: Magical Water Plants of the 
Mediterranean. 

“Apparently, Professor Sprout told Professor Moody 
I’m really good at Herbology,” Neville said. There was 
a faint note of pride in his voice that Harry had rarely 
heard there before. “He thought I’d like this.” 

Telling Neville what Professor Sprout had said, Harry 
thought, had been a very tactful way of cheering 
Neville up, for Neville very rarely heard that he was 
good at anything. It was the sort of thing Professor 
Lupin would have done. 

Harry and Ron took their copies of Unfogging the 
Future back down to the common room, found a 
table, and set to work on their predictions for the 
coming month. An hour later, they had made very 
little progress, though their table was littered with 
bits of parchment bearing sums and symbols, and 
Harry’s brain was as fogged as though it had been 
filled with the fumes from Professor Trelawney’s fire. 

“I haven’t got a clue what this lot’s supposed to 
mean,” he said, staring down at a long list of 
calculations. 

“You know,” said Ron, whose hair was on end 
because of all the times he had run his fingers 
through it in frustration, “I think it’s back to the old 
Divination standby.” 

“What — make it up?” 

“Yeah,” said Ron, sweeping the jumble of scrawled 
notes off the table, dipping his pen into some ink, and 
starting to write. 



Page | 245 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Next Monday,” he said as he scribbled, “I am likely to 
develop a cough, owing to the unlucky conjunction of 
Mars and Jupiter.” He looked up at Harry. “You know 
her — just put in loads of misery, shell lap it up.” 

“Right,” said Harry, crumpling up his first attempt 
and lobbing it over the heads of a group of chattering 
first years into the fire. “Okay ... on Monday, / will be 
in danger of — er — burns.” 

“Yeah, you will be,” said Ron darkly, “we’re seeing the 
skrewts again on Monday. Okay, Tuesday, I’ll ... erm 



“Lose a treasured possession,” said Harry, who was 
flicking through Unfogging the Future for ideas. 

“Good one,” said Ron, copying it down. “Because of 
... erm ... Mercury. Why don’t you get stabbed in the 
back by someone you thought was a friend?” 

“Yeah ... cool ...” said Harry, scribbling it down, 
“because ... Venus is in the twelfth house.” 

“And on Wednesday, I think I’ll come off worst in a 
fight.” 

“Aaah, I was going to have a fight. Okay, I’ll lose a 
bet.” 

“Yeah, you’ll be betting I’ll win my fight. ...” 

They continued to make up predictions (which grew 
steadily more tragic) for another hour, while the 
common room around them slowly emptied as people 
went up to bed. Crookshanks wandered over to them, 
leapt lightly into an empty chair, and stared 
inscrutably at Harry, rather as Hermione might look if 
she knew they weren’t doing their homework properly. 
Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Staring around the room, trying to think of a kind of 
misfortune he hadn’t yet used, Harry saw Fred and 
George sitting together against the opposite wall, 
heads together, quills out, poring over a single piece 
of parchment. It was most unusual to see Fred and 
George hidden away in a corner and working silently; 
they usually liked to be in the thick of things and the 
noisy center of attention. There was something 
secretive about the way they were working on the 
piece of parchment, and Harry was reminded of how 
they had sat together writing something back at the 
Burrow. He had thought then that it was another 
order form for Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes, but it didn’t 
look like that this time; if it had been, they would 
surely have let Lee Jordan in on the joke. He 
wondered whether it had anything to do with entering 
the Triwizard Tournament. 

As Harry watched, George shook his head at Fred, 
scratched out something with his quill, and said, in a 
very quiet voice that nevertheless carried across the 
almost deserted room, “No — that sounds like we’re 
accusing him. Got to be careful ...” 

Then George looked over and saw Harry watching 
him. Harry grinned and quickly returned to his 
predictions — he didn’t want George to think he was 
eavesdropping. Shortly after that, the twins rolled up 
their parchment, said good night, and went off to bed. 

Fred and George had been gone ten minutes or so 
when the portrait hole opened and Hermione climbed 
into the common room carrying a sheaf of parchment 
in one hand and a box whose contents rattled as she 
walked in the other. Crookshanks arched his back, 
purring. 

“Hello,” she said, “I’ve just finished!” 



Page | 247 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“So have I!” said Ron triumphantly, throwing down 
his quill. 

Hermione sat down, laid the things she was carrying 
in an empty armchair, and pulled Ron’s predictions 
toward her. 

“Not going to have a very good month, are you?” she 
said sardonically as Crookshanks curled up in her 
lap. 

“Ah well, at least I’m forewarned,” Ron yawned. 

“You seem to be drowning twice,” said Hermione. 

“Oh am I?” said Ron, peering down at his predictions. 
“I’d better change one of them to getting trampled by 
a rampaging hippogriff.” 

“Don’t you think it’s a bit obvious you’ve made these 
up?” said Hermione. 

“How dare you!” said Ron, in mock outrage. “We’ve 
been working like house-elves here!” 

Hermione raised her eyebrows. 

“It’s just an expression,” said Ron hastily. 

Harry laid down his quill too, having just finished 
predicting his own death by decapitation. 

“What’s in the box?” he asked, pointing at it. 

“Funny you should ask,” said Hermione, with a nasty 
look at Ron. She took off the lid and showed them the 
contents. 



Page | 248 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Inside were about fifty badges, all of different colors, 
but all bearing the same letters: S.P.E.W. 

“ ‘Spew?” said Harry, picking up a badge and looking 
at it. “What’s this about?” 

“Not spew,” said Hermione impatiently. “It’s S-P-E-W. 
Stands for the Society for the Promotion of Elfish 
Welfare.” 

“Never heard of it,” said Ron. 

“Well, of course you haven’t,” said Hermione briskly, 
“I’ve only just started it.” 

“Yeah?” said Ron in mild surprise. “How many 
members have you got?” 

“Well — if you two join — three,” said Hermione. 

“And you think we want to walk around wearing 
badges saying ‘spew,’ do you?” said Ron. 

“S-P-E-W!” said Hermione hotly. “I was going to put 
Stop the Outrageous Abuse of Our Fellow Magical 
Creatures and Campaign for a Change in Their Legal 
Status — but it wouldn’t fit. So that’s the heading of 
our manifesto.” 

She brandished the sheaf of parchment at them. 

“I’ve been researching it thoroughly in the library. Elf 
enslavement goes back centuries. I can’t believe no 
one’s done anything about it before now.” 

“Hermione — open your ears,” said Ron loudly. “They. 
Like. It. They like being enslaved!” 



Page | 249 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Our short-term aims,” said Hermione, speaking even 
more loudly than Ron, and acting as though she 
hadn’t heard a word, “are to secure house-elves fair 
wages and working conditions. Our long-term aims 
include changing the law about non-wand use, and 
trying to get an elf into the Department for the 
Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, because 
they’re shockingly underrepresented.” 

“And how do we do all this?” Harry asked. 

“We start by recruiting members,” said Hermione 
happily. “I thought two Sickles to join — that buys a 
badge — and the proceeds can fund our leaflet 
campaign. You’re treasurer, Ron — I’ve got you a 
collecting tin upstairs — and Harry, you’re secretary, 
so you might want to write down everything I’m 
saying now, as a record of our first meeting.” 

There was a pause in which Hermione beamed at the 
pair of them, and Harry sat, torn between 
exasperation at Hermione and amusement at the look 
on Ron’s face. The silence was broken, not by Ron, 
who in any case looked as though he was temporarily 
dumbstruck, but by a soft tap, tap on the window. 
Harry looked across the now empty common room 
and saw, illuminated by the moonlight, a snowy owl 
perched on the windowsill. 

“Hedwig!” he shouted, and he launched himself out of 
his chair and across the room to pull open the 
window. 

Hedwig flew inside, soared across the room, and 
landed on the table on top of Harry’s predictions. 

“About time!” said Harry, hurrying after her. 



Page | 250 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s got an answer!” said Ron excitedly, pointing at 
the grubby piece of parchment tied to Hedwig’s leg. 

Harry hastily untied it and sat down to read, 
whereupon Hedwig fluttered onto his knee, hooting 
softly. 

“What does it say?” Hermione asked breathlessly. 

The letter was very short, and looked as though it had 
been scrawled in a great hurry. Harry read it aloud: 

Harry — 

I’m flying north immediately. This news about your 
scar is the latest in a series of strange rumors that 
have reached me here. If it hurts again , go straight to 
Dumbledore — they’re saying he’s got Mad-Eye out of 
retirement, which means he’s reading the signs, even if 
no one else is. 

I’ll be in touch soon. My best to Ron and Hermione. 

Keep your eyes open, Harry. 

Sirius 

Harry looked up at Ron and Hermione, who stared 
back at him. 

“He’s flying north?” Hermione whispered. “He’s 
coming back?” 

“Dumbledore’s reading what signs?” said Ron, looking 
perplexed. “Harry — what’s up?” 

For Harry had just hit himself in the forehead with 
his fist, jolting Hedwig out of his lap. 

“I shouldn’t’ve told him!” Harry said furiously. 

Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What are you on about?” said Ron in surprise. 



“It’s made him think he’s got to come back!” said 
Harry, now slamming his fist on the table so that 
Hedwig landed on the back of Ron’s chair, hooting 
indignantly. “Coming back, because he thinks I’m in 
trouble! And there’s nothing wrong with me! And I 
haven’t got anything for you,” Harry snapped at 
Hedwig, who was clicking her beak expectantly, 

“you’ll have to go up to the Owlery if you want food.” 

Hedwig gave him an extremely offended look and took 
off for the open window, cuffing him around the head 
with her outstretched wing as she went. 

“Harry,” Hermione began, in a pacifying sort of voice. 

“I’m going to bed,” said Harry shortly. “See you in the 
morning.” 

Upstairs in the dormitory he pulled on his pajamas 
and got into his four-poster, but he didn’t feel 
remotely tired. 

If Sirius came back and got caught, it would be his, 
Harry’s, fault. Why hadn’t he kept his mouth shut? A 
few seconds’ pain and he’d had to blab. ... If he’d just 
had the sense to keep it to himself. . . . 

He heard Ron come up into the dormitory a short 
while later, but did not speak to him. For a long time, 
Harry lay staring up at the dark canopy of his bed. 
The dormitory was completely silent, and, had he 
been less preoccupied, Harry would have realized that 
the absence of Neville’s usual snores meant that he 
was not the only one lying awake. 



Page | 252 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






BEAUXBATONS AND DRUMSTRANG 

Early next morning, Harry woke with a plan fully 
formed in his mind, as though his sleeping brain had 
been working on it all night. He got up, dressed in the 
pale dawn light, left the dormitory without waking 
Ron, and went back down to the deserted common 
room. Here he took a piece of parchment from the 
table upon which his Divination homework still lay 
and wrote the following letter: 

Dear Sirius, 

I reckon I just imagined my scar hurting, I was half 
asleep when I wrote to you last time. There’s no point 
coming back, everything’s fine here. Don’t worry about 
me, my head feels completely normal. 

Harry 

He then climbed out of the portrait hole, up through 
the silent castle (held up only briefly by Peeves, who 
tried to overturn a large vase on him halfway along 



Page | 253 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



the fourth-floor corridor), finally arriving at the 
Owlery, which was situated at the top of West Tower. 

The Owlery was a circular stone room, rather cold 
and drafty, because none of the windows had glass in 
them. The floor was entirely covered in straw, owl 
droppings, and the regurgitated skeletons of mice and 
voles. Hundreds upon hundreds of owls of every 
breed imaginable were nestled here on perches that 
rose right up to the top of the tower, nearly all of 
them asleep, though here and there a round amber 
eye glared at Harry. He spotted Hedwig nestled 
between a barn owl and a tawny, and hurried over to 
her, sliding a little on the dropping-strewn floor. 

It took him a while to persuade her to wake up and 
then to look at him, as she kept shuffling around on 
her perch, showing him her tail. She was evidently 
still furious about his lack of gratitude the previous 
night. In the end, it was Harry suggesting she might 
be too tired, and that perhaps he would ask Ron to 
borrow Pigwidgeon, that made her stick out her leg 
and allow him to tie the letter to it. 

“Just find him, all right?” Harry said, stroking her 
back as he carried her on his arm to one of the holes 
in the wall. “Before the dementors do.” 

She nipped his finger, perhaps rather harder than she 
would ordinarily have done, but hooted softly in a 
reassuring sort of way all the same. Then she spread 
her wings and took off into the sunrise. Harry 
watched her fly out of sight with the familiar feeling of 
unease back in his stomach. He had been so sure 
that Sirius’s reply would alleviate his worries rather 
than increasing them. 

“That was a lie, Harry,” said Hermione sharply over 
breakfast, when he told her and Ron what he had 

Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




done. “You didn’t imagine your scar hurting and you 
know it.” 

“So what?” said Harry. “He’s not going back to 
Azkaban because of me.” 

“Drop it,” said Ron sharply to Hermione as she 
opened her mouth to argue some more, and for once, 
Hermione heeded him, and fell silent. 

Harry did his best not to worry about Sirius over the 
next couple of weeks. True, he could not stop himself 
from looking anxiously around every morning when 
the post owls arrived, nor, late at night before he went 
to sleep, prevent himself from seeing horrible visions 
of Sirius, cornered by dementors down some dark 
London street, but betweentimes he tried to keep his 
mind off his godfather. He wished he still had 
Quidditch to distract him; nothing worked so well on 
a troubled mind as a good, hard training session. On 
the other hand, their lessons were becoming more 
difficult and demanding than ever before, particularly 
Moody’s Defense Against the Dark Arts. 

To their surprise, Professor Moody had announced 
that he would be putting the Imperius Curse on each 
of them in turn, to demonstrate its power and to see 
whether they could resist its effects. 

“But — but you said it’s illegal, Professor,” said 
Hermione uncertainly as Moody cleared away the 
desks with a sweep of his wand, leaving a large clear 
space in the middle of the room. “You said — to use it 
against another human was — ” 

“Dumbledore wants you taught what it feels like,” 
said Moody, his magical eye swiveling onto Hermione 
and fixing her with an eerie, unblinking stare. “If 
you’d rather learn the hard way — when someone’s 

Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




putting it on you so they can control you completely 
— fine by me. You’re excused. Off you go.” 

He pointed one gnarled finger toward the door. 
Hermione went very pink and muttered something 
about not meaning that she wanted to leave. Harry 
and Ron grinned at each other. They knew Hermione 
would rather eat bubotuber pus than miss such an 
important lesson. 

Moody began to beckon students forward in turn and 
put the Imperius Curse upon them. Harry watched 
as, one by one, his classmates did the most 
extraordinary things under its influence. Dean 
Thomas hopped three times around the room, singing 
the national anthem. Lavender Brown imitated a 
squirrel. Neville performed a series of quite 
astonishing gymnastics he would certainly not have 
been capable of in his normal state. Not one of them 
seemed to be able to fight off the curse, and each of 
them recovered only when Moody had removed it. 

“Potter,” Moody growled, “you next.” 

Harry moved forward into the middle of the 
classroom, into the space that Moody had cleared of 
desks. Moody raised his wand, pointed it at Harry, 
and said, “Imperio\” 

It was the most wonderful feeling. Harry felt a floating 
sensation as every thought and worry in his head was 
wiped gently away, leaving nothing but a vague, 
untraceable happiness. He stood there feeling 
immensely relaxed, only dimly aware of everyone 
watching him. 

And then he heard Mad-Eye Moody’s voice, echoing in 
some distant chamber of his empty brain: Jump onto 
the desk . . . jump onto the desk. . . . 

Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry bent his knees obediently, preparing to spring. 
Jump onto the desk. ... 

Why, though? Another voice had awoken in the back 
of his brain. 

Stupid thing to do, really, said the voice. 

Jump onto the desk. ... 

No, I don’t think I will, thanks, said the other voice, a 
little more firmly ... no, I don’t really want to. ... 

Jump\ NOW 

The next thing Harry felt was considerable pain. He 
had both jumped and tried to prevent himself from 
jumping — the result was that he’d smashed 
headlong into the desk, knocking it over, and, by the 
feeling in his legs, fractured both his kneecaps. 

“Now, that’s more like it!” growled Moody’s voice, and 
suddenly, Harry felt the empty, echoing feeling in his 
head disappear. He remembered exactly what was 
happening, and the pain in his knees seemed to 
double. 

“Look at that, you lot ... Potter fought! He fought it, 
and he damn near beat it! We’ll try that again, Potter, 
and the rest of you, pay attention — watch his eyes, 
that’s where you see it — very good, Potter, very good 
indeed! They’ll have trouble controlling you!” 



“The way he talks,” Harry muttered as he hobbled out 
of the Defense Against the Dark Arts class an hour 
later (Moody had insisted on putting Harry through 

Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




his paces four times in a row, until Harry could throw 
off the curse entirely), “you’d think we were all going 
to be attacked any second.” 

“Yeah, I know,” said Ron, who was skipping on every 
alternate step. He had had much more difficulty with 
the curse than Harry, though Moody assured him the 
effects would wear off by lunch-time. “Talk about 
paranoid ...” Ron glanced nervously over his shoulder 
to check that Moody was definitely out of earshot and 
went on. “No wonder they were glad to get shot of him 
at the Ministry. Did you hear him telling Seamus 
what he did to that witch who shouted ‘Boo’ behind 
him on April Fools’ Day? And when are we supposed 
to read up on resisting the Imperius Curse with 
everything else we’ve got to do?” 

All the fourth years had noticed a definite increase in 
the amount of work they were required to do this 
term. Professor McGonagall explained why, when the 
class gave a particularly loud groan at the amount of 
Transfiguration homework she had assigned. 

“You are now entering a most important phase of your 
magical education!” she told them, her eyes glinting 
dangerously behind her square spectacles. “Your 
Ordinary Wizarding Levels are drawing closer — ” 

“We don’t take O.W.L.s till fifth year!” said Dean 
Thomas indignantly. 

“Maybe not, Thomas, but believe me, you need all the 
preparation you can get! Miss Granger remains the 
only person in this class who has managed to turn a 
hedgehog into a satisfactory pincushion. I might 
remind you that your pincushion, Thomas, still curls 
up in fright if anyone approaches it with a pin!” 



Page | 258 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione, who had turned rather pink again, seemed 
to be trying not to look too pleased with herself. 

Harry and Ron were deeply amused when Professor 
Trelawney told them that they had received top marks 
for their homework in their next Divination class. She 
read out large portions of their predictions, 
commending them for their unflinching acceptance of 
the horrors in store for them — but they were less 
amused when she asked them to do the same thing 
for the month after next; both of them were running 
out of ideas for catastrophes. 

Meanwhile Professor Binns, the ghost who taught 
History of Magic, had them writing weekly essays on 
the goblin rebellions of the eighteenth century. 
Professor Snape was forcing them to research 
antidotes. They took this one seriously, as he had 
hinted that he might be poisoning one of them before 
Christmas to see if their antidote worked. Professor 
Flitwick had asked them to read three extra books in 
preparation for their lesson on Summoning Charms. 

Even Hagrid was adding to their workload. The Blast- 
Ended Skrewts were growing at a remarkable pace 
given that nobody had yet discovered what they ate. 
Hagrid was delighted, and as part of their “project,” 
suggested that they come down to his hut on 
alternate evenings to observe the skrewts and make 
notes on their extraordinary behavior. 

“I will not,” said Draco Malfoy flatly when Hagrid had 
proposed this with the air of Father Christmas pulling 
an extra- large toy out of his sack. “I see enough of 
these foul things during lessons, thanks.” 

Hagrid ’s smile faded off his face. 



Page | 259 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeh’ll do wha’yer told,” he growled, “or I’ll be takin’ a 
leaf outta Professor Moody’s book. ... I hear yeh made 
a good ferret, Malfoy.” 

The Gryffindors roared with laughter. Malfoy flushed 
with anger, but apparently the memory of Moody’s 
punishment was still sufficiently painful to stop him 
from retorting. Harry, Ron, and Hermione returned to 
the castle at the end of the lesson in high spirits; 
seeing Hagrid put down Malfoy was particularly 
satisfying, especially because Malfoy had done his 
very best to get Hagrid sacked the previous year. 

When they arrived in the entrance hall, they found 
themselves unable to proceed owing to the large 
crowd of students congregated there, all milling 
around a large sign that had been erected at the foot 
of the marble staircase. Ron, the tallest of the three, 
stood on tiptoe to see over the heads in front of them 
and read the sign aloud to the other two: 

TRIWIZARD TOURNAMENT 

The delegations from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang 
will be arriving at 6 o’clock on Friday the 30th of 
October. Lessons will end half an hour early — 

“Brilliant!” said Harry. “It’s Potions last thing on 
Friday! Snape won’t have time to poison us all!” 

Students will return their bags and books to their 
dormitories and assemble in front of the castle to 
greet our guests before the Welcoming Feast. 



“Only a week away!” said Ernie Macmillan of 
Hufflepuff, emerging from the crowd, his eyes 



Page | 260 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




gleaming. “I wonder if Cedric knows? Think 111 go and 
tell him. ...” 



“Cedric?” said Ron blankly as Ernie hurried off. 

“Diggory,” said Harry. “He must be entering the 
tournament.” 

“That idiot, Hogwarts champion?” said Ron as they 
pushed their way through the chattering crowd 
toward the staircase. 

“He’s not an idiot. You just don’t like him because he 
beat Gryffindor at Quidditch,” said Hermione. “I’ve 
heard he’s a really good student — and he’s a 
prefect.” 

She spoke as though this settled the matter. 

“You only like him because he’s handsome,” said Ron 
scathingly. 

“Excuse me, I don’t like people just because they’re 
handsome!” said Hermione indignantly. 
