The Project Gutenberg EBook of Monster of the Asteroid, by Ray Cummings

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Monster of the Asteroid

Author: Ray Cummings

Release Date: May 6, 2020 [EBook #62040]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MONSTER OF THE ASTEROID ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        MONSTER OF THE ASTEROID

                            By RAY CUMMINGS

              They might gamble, but win or lose the take
               was death for these two new slaves of the
          Master of that pitted Devil's Isle of outer space.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The amazing thing began that summer evening of 1965 while I was
sitting with Dora Franklin on the third ramp at the crossroads,
listening to the outdoor public-music. We were on the fringe of the
crowd in a secluded little place where there was a small bench under
the overhanging branches of a tree. It was a romantic scene with
the audience seated in crescent rows under the strings of colored
tubelights. My arm went around Dora, with her head against my shoulder
as we listened to the soft exotic music.

Around us, countless other couples were also listening in silence.

A pair of young lovers. I realize now that was doubtless what first
attracted the furtive man to us. How long he and his weird little
companion had been watching us I have no idea. I was aware of the two
dark shapes in the shadow under a nearby tree--a tall blob and a
short one. Then the tall one came forward; the short one lurked in the
deep shadows a few feet away.

"The music is very pretty?" a guttural voice said. It was a man in a
long, dull-black cloak. His black peaked hat had a fringe almost in
woman fashion which dangled past his ears and shrouded his face so
that I could hardly see it. With his mumbled greeting he sidled up and
dropped to the bench beside me, peering past me at Dora as though he
were infinitely more interested in her rather than me which was not in
itself a surprising fact.

"Yes," I agreed. Dora and I sat up and shifted reluctantly to give him
room. The little figure ten feet away, stood impassive. I recall that
I stared with a sudden startled astonishment; and then with a vague
shudder stabbing into me. The silent shape was no more than five feet
tall, so that with a quick glance here in the dimness one might have
thought it a half grown boy. A man's long black overcoat fell from the
top of its head almost to the ground, as though a boy had the overcoat
hung on his head, with all of him shrouded inside it. But the top of
the overcoat was limp, sagging. I had the sudden crazy thought that
the thing was headless--an overcoat hanging on wide square shoulders
without any head above them!

I shuddered involuntarily.

"You and the young lady like music?" the man beside me was saying. "It
is romantic. You are engaged maybe? Or honeymooning?" His voice was
almost too solicitous.

Between the shrouding fringe of his hat the colored tubelight sheen
gleamed on his partly shrouded face. It was pallid, hawk-nosed,
with burning dark eyes that still were staring with an almost rude
intentness at Dora.

"No," I said. I moved with an impulse to stand up and take Dora to
another bench, but the man's hand reached out and touched my arm.

"Just a minute," he said in his limping guttural voice. "My name is
Bragg. What is yours?"

"Ralston," I said stiffly. "Thomas Ralston."

I could see that Dora now was staring at that little lurking figure.
She, too, sensed that there was something gruesome about it.

The man beside me was speaking more swiftly now in a low furtive flow
of mumbled words. "I can interest young lovers like you. I have a
place, just for honey-mooners. A little colony of lovers. A place to
live, without cost, and no work. You would like it. A very beautiful
place."

"We're not married," I said. Was this weird fellow a solicitor for
some rich man's altruistic colony? I had heard of such places. In my
father's day there was a big one on an island off the Florida coast,
and another in the South Seas--colonies where newlyweds went to create
an earthly paradise, which, of course, wouldn't work out.

"But you will be married?" the man insisted. "It is a very beautiful
place. There is no place like it. I am sure Miss Franklin will--"

I tensed, jumped to my feet, and Dora stood up beside me. Miss
Franklin! But I hadn't named her. This fellow knew us then. At our
movement, it seemed that the little figure nearby was edging closer. I
am a pretty husky, six foot fellow. As I stood up, the man on the bench
rose also, with his hand still on my arm. He was about my height. I
flung off his light hold.

"Not interested," I said. "Come on, Dora."

We started to go.

Was that damnable, headless little thing about to pounce on me?
There were five hundred people here within sound of a shout, but
despite it a thrill of fear darted through me. I'm not exactly afraid
of anything human; but somehow this seemed different--as though
that square, box-like, wide-shouldered little thing were something
gruesome--something you couldn't fight with your fists. It was standing
sidewise to us now, in a deeper shadow than before and, even more than
before, I got the impression that the ominous-looking little figure was
headless.

"But won't you at least come and see what I have to show you?" the man
at my side was insisting. "It is not very far--"

"Thanks, no." I turned away with an arm around Dora. And suddenly the
man was slinking off with the wide-shouldered little thing following
after him on stiff little legs. In a moment they were gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

That was the beginning. The details of me are not important here; I
need only say that I was twenty-four that summer. Dora and I were
engaged to be married. Both of us were orphans. She was wealthy; I was
not, so that I did not want to marry until I had made a success of an
invention on which I was working--a ray-weapon with which I hoped,
not to make war more deadly, but to make war impossible. It was a
non-killing, paralyzing vibration. In theory, if I could project it any
great distance--a vibration on speeding form--then with it whole armies
would be stricken down, rendered helpless.

But I had not progressed that far as yet. I was living in Dora's home,
working in a small laboratory with which it was equipped. Just this
week I had completed a miniature projector. With tests upon animals it
seemed to be effective at some fifty feet....

Dora's home was some three miles out in the country from the Crossroads
Municipal Village where we had gone to hear the music. We took her
little air-roller which was parked nearby. We did not fly it for such
a short distance, merely rolled it out on the State Road. Dora was
frightened, but I tried to shrug away the mysterious incident.

"That--that little thing that stood watching us," she said. "Oh Tom--"

"Looked like a boy with an overcoat over his head," I told her. "Forget
it, Dora."

Had she noticed that the man who had accosted us knew her name? She did
not mention it, nor did I. We were approaching her home within five
minutes. Here, fifty miles north of New York City, there was one of
the infrequent patches of lonely country. Her small cement and metal
cottage nestled against a wooded hillside. Queer--as we rolled up,
the house was in complete darkness. Yet Mrs. Holten, our housekeeper,
certainly would not have retired now at ten o'clock.

We stopped at the main entrance and climbed out. "Oh Tom--" Dora
murmured. "Something very strange about this--"

She stood clinging to me, with the dark silent house beside us.
Overhead the moon was riding a sky of low, swift-flying clouds. The
trees around the house stirred with a night breeze, but beyond that
it seemed that everything was abnormally silent--a silence hanging
menacingly around us.

"Mrs. Holten must have gone to bed," I said. "Come on, let's go in."

But Mrs. Holten wasn't in the house. We called; then lighted all the
lights. The place was in perfect order, but the housekeeper was gone.

"Strange," I said. "I suppose something called her away. She should
have left us a note."

But what I didn't say was that on the wall of the hall, near the door
of the laboratory there were dark marks on the plaster--marks that
suggested a burn, as though heat had struck the wall.

"Tom, come here," Dora called from the living room. "What a queer
smell!"

I met her frightened gaze; her nostrils were dilating. I could smell
it--an acrid, pungent smell.

"_Government Food Depot Raided!_" The crisp low voice here with us
in the living room was so unexpected that Dora gave a low scream and
clutched me. It was our news-radio which Mrs. Holten had evidently left
on; and now a news announcement was being made. "_Allenville, New York.
Mysterious raiders broke into the Government Surplus Food Depot, here
tonight--probably about 9.50 p.m. Large supplies of sealed cooked food
stolen. Four watchmen found dead--others missing._"

Dora and I stood stricken, listening to the newscaster's droning voice.
Allenville was the Municipal Housing Village we had just left. The
Government Food Storehouses were on its other side half a mile from
where we had heard the music.

"... _and the bodies of the watchmen show that they were attacked by
some mysterious weapon. There are no wounds. The clothing is charred a
little, as though some weird form of heat were applied. Two of the men
have burned spots on the forehead--as though some electric charge of a
lethal power_--"

The signal lights on top of our instrument showed that another
public-news station was signalling it had a visual broadcast of
immediate interest. I reached and tuned to it. The televisor glowed.
Numbed with startled horror, Dora and I stood staring at the moving
image on the televisor grid. It was from a public observor lens mounted
on a pole beside one of the roads leading out of Allenville. An alarm
signal had been turned in by a traffic director there on a crossing
ramp. He had evidently flung on the alarm-light so that all the scene
was bathed in its white actinic glare. And the road-side observing lens
was bringing it now to us, broadcasting it to every receiving set in
the country.

What we saw was the crossing ramp with milling, frightened pedestrians
and the traffic in a tangle. Momentarily the people were blinded by
the glare and deafened by the shrieking of the alarm-siren. In the
background loomed a building which I knew was another of the Government
Food Depots. The alarm evidently had originated there.

"Tom--look--that doorway!" Dora murmured.

From one of the dark doorways of the Food Depot a little figure came
scurrying out. And then another--and at the foot of the ramp where
the crowd was milling, several others suddenly were visible. Figures
identical with the one which had watched us by the bench!

"Oh Tom--dear God!"

For a brief instant one of them was bathed in the alarm-light and our
image of the turmoil showed it clearly. The shrouding garment was open
in front as it faced us. The scurrying little thing was headless! It
seemed to have square wide shoulders, straight across from tip to
tip--no neck--no head! The glimpse was ended in another second as the
thing darted away and was gone in the turmoil.

In our living room, Dora and I stood stricken. And suddenly our room
tubelight was extinguished and we were plunged into darkness! There was
just the moonlight glow from one of the living room's open windows--a
pallid rectangle where now I saw a weird box-like thing lurching as it
climbed over the sill!

A little automatic bullet-projector for home emergency use was hanging
on a rack beside me. I snatched it. The disintegrating air-charge
hurled the bullet with an almost soundless whizz. My aim doubtless
was true enough; but from the oncoming little creature a faint violet
radiance was streaming out, like an enveloping aura around it, visible
now in the darkness. The bullet melted with a soundless little puff of
light.

I was aware that Dora was clutching at me, screaming. Then something
hit us with a numbing electric shock. I was conscious of nothing save
that I was falling; galvanized so that I went down rigid, with a crash.
Then there was only Dora's scream of terror, swiftly fading as my
senses were flung away.

       *       *       *       *       *

I came to myself with the sense that a considerable time had passed. I
knew that I was thinking. For a while it seemed that there was nothing
of me alive, except my mind. I was conscious now that my body was numb;
lifeless.

Like catalepsy. It was a consciousness most horrible--dead, yet alive.
I struggled to move, but there was nothing that would react. Then very
slowly I could feel the sensation of tingling. It seemed to define my
body; make me conscious of my legs and arms that were prickling as
though with a thousand needles stabbing them. I could feel now that I
was lying on something soft. My eyelids fluttered up so that I had the
swimming vision of narrow metal walls and a low grid ceiling. The room
was faintly luminous with a weird dull radiance.

Then my clearing sight focused on a lens-shaped window. Stars were
out there--glittering points of blue-white light in a firmament solid
black. The stars were in a slow circular procession of movement so that
I knew the room was revolving.

Interplanetary Space. I was in a space-vehicle. I could hear the faint,
throbbing humming mechanisms now, and see the endless procession of
celestial glory outside my window. Numbly, for how long I do not know,
I lay blankly watching it. The space-vehicle obviously had a slow
horizontal axial rotation. The glittering distant worlds swung past.
And then I saw the Earth! The blazing, flame-enveloped ball of Sun
was off to one side, so that it was a great crescent Earth. Much time
indeed had passed. Hours; days--a blank to me. The Earth was dull
red-yellow. The sunlight gleamed on the mountains at the limb of its
crescent; and I could see the mottling of clouds and the configurations
of oceans and continents beneath them.

"Maybe you can move now. Your name is Tom Ralston, isn't it? Any chance
you can speak--you're coming out all right, damned if you're not. I'd
about given you up."

It was a low voice beside me; and suddenly I was aware of a hunched
man's form sitting here on the floor. My gaze swung to see him--a
slim young fellow in ragged Earth garments of tight black and white
striped trousers and white blouse open at the throat. His face was
good-looking; slack-jawed, weak face with pale blue eyes. His stubble
of beard made his weak chin and thin cheeks bluish. He was smiling.

"All right now, Ralston?"

"Yes, I guess so." I could barely mouth it. My tongue was thick; all
my body was a torture now from that prickling. But I could move, and
every moment I could feel my strength coming back to me. "Where am I?"
I mumbled. "What happened? Who are you?" And then I remembered Dora.
"She--Dora Franklin--she was with me. Is she all right?"

"Oh sure. If you could call being on this damned ship anything to be
pleased about. The woman Setta is taking care of her. The damned little
Physical hit her and you both with its shock, but you got much the
worst. Dora's all right, now."

I lay, with my strength coming back, listening in mute wonderment to
the weird things he was telling me. His name was Johnny Blair. A year
ago, in New York City, he had just been married. He and his young wife
had been approached by that same weird man who had accosted Dora and
me. They had yielded to his lure of a honeymoon paradise; had gone with
him. The man's name was Bragg--an escaped Earth criminal, member of a
band of fifty who in a wholesale jailbreak five years ago had gotten
loose, stolen a space-vehicle and left Earth. Roaming in Space, they
had landed on a little planetoid, a member of our Solar System, which
encircles the Sun in an orbit outside the orbit of Earth; between the
Earth and Mars.

"We're almost there now," young Blair was saying. He had lowered his
voice so that now he was furtive, fearing that what he was telling me
might be overheard by someone outside our cubby. "Pretty weird new
world we're headed for, Ralston," he commented grimly. He jerked his
thumb toward the lens-shaped pressure window. "If you're strong enough
to take a look, you'll see it right under us. We're dropping down into
its stratosphere now."

With his arm supporting me, weakly I staggered to the window. Blair
was explaining that our tiny cubby was on the outer rim of the flat,
disc-shaped vehicle. Its rocket-streams gave it a slow horizontal
rotation, and its gravity plates, set now into repulsion, were slowly
dropping it downward.

Through the window I stared down. The little planetoid, some six
hundred miles in diameter but with an immense density since it was
almost solid metal, lay spread close beneath us. A weird world indeed;
a great spread of convex surface of barren, tumbled rocks and mountains
in great serrated tiers. The sunlight gleamed with a dazzling sheen on
the burnished heights. Then we passed into the shadow of night.

       *       *       *       *       *

I gazed, wordless. It was a fearsome, barren waste of blue-white metal
rocks, fused and pitted as though the little world had been born in
a fiery convulsion; a tumbled, strewn land of crags and boulders
with ragged gashes of canyons in which now the shadows were black,
impenetrable. And over it all there was a lurid green-red glow. It
seemed inherent to the air; and it streamed up like a radioactive aura
from the rocks of the ground.

"The whole planetoid is like that?" I murmured. "Surely that's not
habitable?"

Johnny Blair rubbed his bluish stubble of beard. "Well, there's
water--it rains sometimes. Maybe there's soil where things would grow,
but I've never seen any. There's quite a colony of us humans here now.
We've been stealing our food--"

So that explained the raids on the Government Food Depots! A band of
fifty escaped criminals, fugitives from Earth, originally had come
here. Their leader was one Torkine; the pallid fellow Bragg was his
lieutenant. And now, raiding Earth of food and supplies, married
couples were being brought--and young men and young girls, to be
married on the planetoid. A new world.

"We've brought some young people from Mars also," Johnny Blair was
explaining. "Been there three times, and once to Venus. Quite a lot of
humans here now--four hundred maybe."

To colonize an uninhabitable world. I said something like that and
Johnny stared at me mutely. "It was inhabited," he said grimly. He
seemed to shudder. "A world with just one inhabitant. It--it's a
ghastly thing. It's got us all as its prisoners now. The Supreme
One--that's what it calls itself. God, when you see it--"

What weird horrible thing was this? I could only return his stare. A
barren little planetoid, with just one inhabitant. Something not human.

"But," I stammered, "when Bragg accosted us, there was a little
headless thing in an overcoat standing near him. And we saw several of
them coming out of the Food Depots."

Johnny's smile was grim. "We call those the Physicals. They're parts of
the Supreme One--like his arms and legs, only they're detached."

"Part of him? His arms and legs? I don't get you."

"No? Well, my God, you'll see." Johnny's gesture seemed trying to
express his hopelessness at explaining. "You'll see him--the main
central part of him, I mean, that never leaves his house. He's a Being,
not all in one piece, like us humans. His housed main body can't move.
You understand? He's rooted to the ground. The rest of him is detached
and he works it by remote control. There must be thousands of those
little Physicals--some in one shape, some in others. But mostly they're
like the ones you saw."

A new form of life. A Thing, an Individual--the sole occupant of its
world. My mind tried to encompass it. On Earth, every living creature
at least seems to be, as Johnny expressed it, all in one piece. But
why should that be exclusively necessary throughout the Universe? Here,
on this little remote planetoid, was one of God's creations that was
made wholly different.

Johnny's voice went lower. "He--It--the Supreme One--it's got us all
trapped. It's delighted--having something besides parts of itself to
rule. You see? that's why it's been sending its parts--like its arms
and legs--to make Bragg and the others lure young men and girls. To
establish a human world, and the Supreme One will rule it."

I understood it better now. That headless little thing in the overcoat
had been watching Bragg--a moving part of the Supreme One, making Bragg
do its bidding. And now Johnny was explaining that as though it were
a giant electric eel, the headless Physical could emit from its own
body a weird electronic discharge. That was what had shocked me into
catalepsy. And it had thrown a barrage about itself, so that my bullet
had been futile to hit it.

"These Physicals," I was murmuring. "Can they hear you when you speak?
Can they talk?"

He nodded. "Yes. Subsidiary organs that operate for themselves when the
main body is too remote." Again he shrugged hopelessly. "I guess we
humans aren't capable of fully understanding--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He checked himself suddenly. He and I were still standing by the little
bull's-eye window. Behind us I heard a click. A doorslide to our
cubby opened. I sucked in my breath with a gasp. One of the Physicals
stood there. A little square, box-like thing mounted on two jointed
legs, with flexible hinged feet, long and pointed. The light from an
outside corridor was behind it, so that I could at first only see its
outline in silhouette. As it stood, it seemed to click and a third
leg came sliding down to support it like a tripod. Its arms, three on
each side of its box-body, were waving like little tentacles. Ghastly
little living thing. Its box-body was some two feet wide by three feet
long, with perhaps a foot of thickness. The light gleamed on its top
edge; the foot-thick surface there was level, smooth and shining, with
rounded ends gruesomely to suggest a travesty of human shoulders.

And then it spoke--a low, hollow, tonelessly mechanical voice. "You
have recovered? You are the human called Tom Ralston?"

English! Queerly intoned, but correct. Johnny nudged me. "Yes," I said.
"That's who I am."

Its third leg slid up again into its body; and with padding little
steps it came forward. I could see it better now. Was it clothed?
Was it living tissue, or wholly metal? For a moment there seemed no
answers. Then I realized that there was no detachable clothing. A
body of animal tissue, or mineral? Perhaps both. Perhaps neither. A
substance different. But I could see that parts of it were rigid,
and parts of it quivering. Down the front of its square little body
rows of knobs protruded; and as I stared, one of them shifted aside
and a little knife-like finger came out on a tentacle arm and waved
at me. Then I saw what might have been called its face--a mobile,
flexible-looking circular area in the front center of its body. A hole
there seemed to glow as though an eye were in it. A round orifice from
which the voice issued was on one side of it; and on the other, a hole
that could have been an ear. And over them there was a crescent-shaped
little area which was greenly luminous--the little brain in there,
visibly palpitating.

"I told Torkine," the Physical said, "that he might see you when you
recovered. Blair will bring you now." Its feet turned. With little
precision steps it marched out and vanished in the dim corridor.

I stared at Johnny, and now suddenly he gripped me. "We'll have to go,"
he murmured swiftly. "Listen, we'll be landing in an hour or two--this
may be the last chance I have to talk to you alone. I been tryin' to
get away from this accursed thing for six months now. Escape--I want to
get back to Earth."

"And you couldn't?"

"Good God, no. Wait 'til you understand the--the monster better.
It's got all us humans trapped. Helpless. Sometimes it treats us
kindly--it's got its own ideas about building up a world of humans,
for it to rule. But when you make it mad, the wrath of the monster is
horrible!"

His words were making me shudder. "You have a wife," I murmured. "Where
is she?"

"She's dead," he said. His voice went drab. "Eight months ago, by
Earth-time, I guess it was. She--she displeased the Supreme One, and so
it killed her. Four of the Physicals just--just grabbed her arms and
legs and they pulled until she--she came apart!"

His voice trailed away. I could only stand with my hand on his
shoulder, staring mutely at him as I shuddered. Then he was leading
me along the corridor which ran like the spoke of a wheel toward the
center of the disc-shaped vehicle.

"What I was saying," he went on in his swift murmur. "Torkine and those
fifty men of his convict band--I wouldn't trust a damn one of them. The
monster likes Torkine, so he's the boss of us humans. But Torkine is
planning something murderous. I've been sure of that for quite a while.
And this fellow Bragg is married to a girl we got from Mars. Her name's
Setta. She's all right."

His voice sank even lower as he stopped in the corridor and gripped me.
"Listen, I've seen your girl Dora--Setta's been taking care of her. I
hope the Supreme One decides to marry you to her. But I wouldn't count
on it. I've seen Torkine and Bragg both lookin' at her pretty queer.
She's a damn sweet-lookin' girl."

My heart was pounding. "Johnny, look here; you say you want to escape,
get back to Earth?"

"That's what I was tellin' you. Or to Mars--that would be all right.
Setta and I are planning it. Can't tell you now. She loves Bragg, and
wants to get him out of here. Bragg has been punished by the monster."

"Johnny, listen. When we get to the planetoid, I want to be in with
you--Dora and I."

"Yes. That's what I guessed. Suits me fine. But I'm tellin' you--don't
you trust a damn soul!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The weird passions of humans. Here on this little space-vehicle we all
were captives of the Supreme One. And yet, wherever there are humans,
smoldering strife will exist. The criminal Torkine and his fifty
men--what murderous action were they planning? We passed one of them
in the corridor; a big, beetle-browed fellow in trousers and shirt.
He stood with his hands on his hips, staring after us with a grinning
leer. But he moved quickly enough when a little Physical came marching
up with its hurried, jerky little steps and ordered him away.

At the entrance to the small control tower which projected up like the
hub of a wheel from the center of the disc-vehicle, Bragg was standing.

"So they got you and your girl?" he murmured.

"Yes," I agreed.

I stared at the woman who was beside him. Setta, his wife, the girl
from Mars. She was a small, brown-skinned girl of perhaps twenty. An
odd face with slanted eyes, narrow nose and queerly pointed chin. Long
sleek black hair framed her face, fell over her brown, sleek bare
shoulders and crossed her full breasts to make a sort of bodice. From
her waist a fringed brown skirt hung to her bare ankles.

Strange-looking young woman of another world from mine. But as she
smiled at me, revealing even white teeth, I felt her charm, and almost
at once my sense of her strangeness was gone. At least we were both
humans, a man and a woman, with so vast a gulf between us and the
gruesome little Physicals.

"I have tried to be good to your woman Dora," Setta said as I passed
her.

"Yes, thank you," I responded.

The Control Turret was pallid with overhead starlight. Its big circular
glassite windows showed me the spread of the planetoid's barren surface
underneath us. We had dropped down through cloud layers now. The wild
naked wastes of the little world's surface were no more than ten
thousand feet down. Still there seemed nothing but barren metal rocks;
no sign of life human or otherwise.

"So you did not die, Tom Ralston. Welcome to our little colony!"

Torkine's ironic voice greeted me. He was seated at the control table
where the intricate dials, levers and vacuums of the disc's mechanisms
were ranged. He stood up as I entered. And beside him I saw Dora. She
was still clad in her Earth garments, and her long pale-blonde hair
was braided and coiled on her head. I have not spoken of Dora's beauty.
Loving her, my own opinion of it possibly was exaggerated; and yet I
have never known a man, or a woman either, who differed greatly from me
in praising it--a delicate, ethereal beauty.

She gave a little cry as she saw me, half started to her feet, and then
sank back on the bench beside Torkine. Her face was pallid, but she was
trying to smile at me.

"Welcome," Torkine said again. "Come sit here with us, Ralston, and
I'll show you our new world. You see he did not die, little Dora?"

I saw Torkine now as a huge burly giant; six feet four at least. A
swaggering, handsome fellow, this escaped convict. In age he could have
been thirty odd. He was grinning at me ironically as he shoved a metal
chair toward me.

"The Supreme One will be glad to have you," he added. "You and Dora
Franklin. Especially Dora. We need Earth beauty in our motley little
colony of humans. The Supreme One spoke to me of that--there will be
several marriages soon after we arrive tonight. The Great Master is
deciding now which men and which women of our humans shall be mated."

Omnipotence. Torkine's irony was gone now; he spoke casually, as though
stating a casual fact. Humans here, who before the power of the Supreme
One were no longer individuals to have a will and emotions of their
own. Everything to be decided for us.

But I saw the pallid hawk-nosed Bragg staring at Dora with a look that
made my heart pound. And Torkine himself dropped back on the bench and
murmured:

"Do not be surprised little Dora, if the Master decides not to give you
to this fellow Ralston--"

He leered at me, and his arms went around Dora, drawing her to him. She
gave a little cry of terror and repugnance. It was too much for me. I
jumped up.

"Stop that!" I rasped. "You Torkine--take your hands off her!"

He turned his head, grinning at me, but he did not move. I would have
been upon him in another second. Behind me I heard Johnny Blair give a
cry to try and stop me. In the shadows of one of the circular walls,
half a dozen of the little box-like Physicals, all identical, were
ranged motionless in a line. They were muttering now--weird mutterings
that popped from them like tiny explosions. And abruptly acting in
unison, they came pouncing at me!

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ralston, stand still!" Blair shouted. "Your only chance--stand still!"

I checked my advance and tried to get my wits; to master the frenzy
that was upon me. It was a moment of horrible chaos; I knew that my
life or death in that second hung in the balance. With hands at my
sides I stood irresolute as the weird little creatures spread out
and surrounded me. Little creatures? Still my brain would barely
encompass the amazing fact that these were not individual little beings
but merely the detached parts of one great Individual--one almost
Omniscient Mentality. As though they were just arms and legs with a
remote giant central Being to guide them in what they were doing now.

As I stood panting, waiting, with my heart pounding, for an instant it
seemed that I would be seized, with the tentacle arms of the box-like
little things pulling at me, like poor Blair's young wife, with arms
and legs pulled until she came apart....

It was a breathless, horrible moment of suspense. All the humans here
in the pallid turret stood breathlessly silent, tense, as helplessly we
waited to see what the Supreme One would decide to do. By what weird
method of nature were swift communications passing between these little
things and their main Being so distant? Our human mind doubtless will
never yield an answer to that. Yet perhaps it was no different in its
essence from the swift orders which our own brain gives to our distant
hands and feet. Ours is a transmission through nerves; this other a
transmission through the ether. Each of these little parts had its
subsidiary eye, to see these local happenings; a little subsidiary
brain to record them, to amplify them with reasoning and to fling the
result out to the Supreme One for decision.

Thoughts themselves are instant things. I stood with a flood of such
thoughts as the Physicals surged at me. Their little eyes, in the
middle of each box-like body, were balefully glaring. A few of the
tentacles gripped me. The touch was cold, slimy, yet from it I could
feel a current tingling, like a mild electric shock.

Then the gripping fingers in unison relaxed. One of the little hollow
voices muttered:

"Tom Ralston, I will punish you later."

As though suddenly the incident were closed, in unison all the
Physicals turned, and with their hurried little precision steps marched
back to the wall where they lined themselves up, motionless, silent,
with only their eyes alert.

And from the bench where still his arm encircled the shuddering Dora,
the giant Torkine was grinning at me with a leer of triumph.

The huge disc which was the spaceship dropped lower into the dark night
of the weird little planetoid. For a brief time I sat at one of the
control turret windows, staring down over the rim of the disc at the
barren, tumbled surface. We were slowly sailing now hardly a thousand
feet above it. Still there was nothing apparent down there save naked
crags. But I knew we were nearing our destination. In the dim little
corridors which spread out like spokes here from this hub of the disc,
distant sounds of activity were audible. A dozen or more of Torkine's
men were on board, watched and herded by a score of the little
Physicals. This raid on Earth had produced quantities of food which the
humans needed to sustain them on the planetoid. There was alcoholite
also. I could see that many of Torkine's villainous-looking men were
imbibing it. Their faces were flushed; some of them were murmuring to
each other, with leering, appraising looks at Dora.

And this raid had produced a few more Earth captives. Young men
and girls who were confined in the little cubbies along one of the
corridors. Their frightened voices were audible now as the Physicals
herded them with preparations to disembark.

"The planetoid world," Dora abruptly whispered. "Look--there is the
city."

Torkine momentarily had moved away, and Dora had shifted to sit beside
me. Together we gazed down. The ragged mountainous horizon of the
sharply convex surface of the little world seemed only a few miles
away. And as the disc, dropping still lower, sailed forward, a human
settlement came suddenly into view. I had only a brief glimpse of it.
At first it was a group of light-dots. Then the colored glow from
them disclosed little groups of dwellings. The lights came from their
windows, and other glowing tubelights were set on poles in the spaces,
like irregular streets between the houses.

It was a weird, motley little settlement. Small, crude, single story
dwellings, evidently erected from materials and parts of other houses
filched from Earth on previous raids. A hundred little habitations, set
in a group.

       *       *       *       *       *

Torkine was beside Dora and me now. "Very nice, isn't it?" he said with
his ironic smile. "That is for our Earth-people. With nothing here
on this planetoid, we have had to do the best we could by bringing
everything from Earth. And there to the left is the Martian village.
And to the right, our Venus people live."

The two other little house-groups stood a few hundred yards further
away, with the weird night-shadows enveloping them. A score perhaps of
strangely-fashioned habitations in each of them. A few dozen Martians,
living here, captives of this monstrous Thing that ruled here. The
spindly, fragile-looking Martian village was almost wholly dark. The
Venus group was blue with flickering torchlight which disclosed little
mound-shaped houses of wood and stone.

"The nucleus of a new civilization," Torkine was saying. "The Supreme
One is proud of it. Earth, Mars and Venus will be blended here in the
new race we will produce. And the Great Master will rule and guide us.
He chooses our mates. He directs our lives--he even thinks and acts for
us, because, you see, we humans are very inferior."

The irony of Torkine's voice made me turn and stare at him. He was
grinning at me. But in his dark, deep-set eyes there was something else
that smoldered with the glinting reflection of his own thoughts.

"I see," I murmured.

"Well, you don't," he retorted. "But you soon will. There, to one
side--that round thing is where the Supreme One houses himself. See it?"

Figures were visible down in the village now as men and women gathered
in the doorways and in the spaces between the houses. They were all
staring up at our arriving disc. And everywhere I could see the
box-like little Physicals. Some stood like sentries at the street
corners. Others were marching with their little precision steps back
and forth. My gaze followed Torkine's gesture. To one side, partly
between the Earth and the Martian sections of the weird village, a flat
cauldron depression of the rocks seemed to have a big circular cover
over it. It was a bulging dome-like roof perhaps a hundred feet in
diameter.

The house of the Monster. The one thing which was native here.
The dome-like roof, of some material which to me was nameless,
indescribable, glowed with a weird violent sheen. Its circular outer
rim was some ten feet above the ground--ten feet of entrance space. But
the violet sheen down there was like a barrage-wall, with slits in it
like doorways. Groups of Physicals were standing there on guard.

Our space-disc was settling to a level, rocky, open area just beyond
the glow of the village lights. The Physicals here in the turret herded
Dora and me away. Torkine, with one of the weird little shapes on
each side of him, grimly, silently watching him, was at the bank of
controls, landing us.

Dora and I had no chance to see young Johnny Blair again. Nor the
Martian woman, Setta. At one of the rim pressure-exits, three of the
Physicals stood waiting with us. Then we felt the big disc settle with
a bump to the ground. The exit door slid open and our captors pushed us
out.

The new world. Its strangely heavy air choked me a little at first, and
made my head reel. I could feel that the gravity was less than Earth,
but not much so because of the immense density of the planet. A babble
of muffled sound was audible as human voices greeted us. In the weird
darkness of dim tubelights, a fringe of staring captive humans showed
on the rocks nearby. But Physicals like little policemen paced in
front of them, keeping them away.

Along a descending rocky path Dora and I were shoved until in a
moment the violet sheen of the barrage at the house of the Monster
loomed ahead. Then we went through one of the slit openings under the
dome-like roof. And presently we stopped at a luminous waist-high
railing; and in a lurid violet-yellow glow, we stared down at the giant
thing which was spread here before us!

       *       *       *       *       *

The circular area inside here seemed about fifty feet in diameter and
was depressed ten feet below us. A violet-yellow luminescence suffused
it so that for a moment it was a blur. Then gradually it clarified
and we saw the Supreme One! Its flat, intricate body was a quivering,
palpitating, luminous mass of tissue spread in a great fifty foot
circle. A Thing fifty feet in diameter, and perhaps three feet thick.
For a moment I thought that it was lying flat on the rocks. Then I saw
that it was suspended a foot or two in the air with a violet curtain or
radiance connecting it to the solidity of the ground.

A rooted monster! Incapable of locomotion it spread here, with radiance
like roots, through which doubtless it was drawing from the ground its
sustenance, its life. Electric sustenance, of course. Weird life-force,
animating its nerve-ganglia, replenishing its living tissue.
Intricate electronic streams of nourishment which in a human body are
blood-streams. A life-force of indescribable chemistry, drawn through
its electronic roots from the planet itself.

An amazing Being. Glowing, multiple brain-lobes were like a score
of transparent heads with luminous threads of what could have been
nerve tissue connecting them; an intricate network of ganglia in a
tangle everywhere through the palpitating body-tissue. Other organs,
indescribable, unnamable, were crimson and violet glowing blobs. I
could see the streams of nourishment swiftly circulating from one to
the other--huge transparent arteries of fluorescence, threading out
into veins and tiny capillaries. And in the center of the body-mass, a
giant eye on a flexible stem, huge organ of sight with spectral colors
darting like fire within it, was glaring at us.

All that I saw with my first swift awed gaze. Then other details were
apparent. A dozen globes of what could have been transparent muscle
were rhythmically palpitating, like huge hearts pumping the strange
current through this Thing to keep it alive. And then I saw that under
the central giant eye there was the orifice for a voice and another for
hearing.

An awesome rooted monster. The only living thing on its barren little
world until the humans came, a pseudo-solidity of roof and walls;
a radiance which streamed from the monster itself. And now in the
lurid dimness I could see faint streams like the threads of an aura
emanating from the different sections of the monster. Little cables
of vibrations, infinitely long, perhaps as unsubstantial as a human
thought. In the darkness here beside Dora and me, a dozen of the little
Physicals were ranged. Parts of the monster. I saw it now--saw those
evanescent threadlike streams from the circle of quivering tissue--each
thread ending in one of the Physicals. The pathways of transmission for
orders from the central Being to its seemingly detached physical parts.

Thoughts are so swift! I suppose Dora and I stood there gazing for
no more than a minute. The monster for that minute was silent; the
round central eye, as big as my head, gazed with appraisement. I heard
Dora suck in her breath with terror as she mutely stared. Both of us,
clutching at each other. And a weird feeling swept me. It was as though
I was gazing at a living thing of vast immensity. The power of thought
here, immense, vast and unfathomable to me who was just a human. It
gave me a feeling of my own futility, so that in the presence of this
Being I stood cringing. Unutterably helpless; small, and terrified.

And then the Supreme One spoke:

"You have been causing me trouble, Tom Ralston. I should have destroyed
you, there on the spaceship."

It was a soft, measured, toneless voice, issuing perhaps from near the
giant eye. Yet it had a faraway sound as though blended and muffled by
distance. And now I could see that one of the brain-lobes near us had
been stimulated into action greater than the others. The luminous aura
from it had intensified. Beneath its membrane tissue, like a million
luminous little snakes writhing one upon the other, the brain-folds
were in motion. This, then, was the brain-lobe concerned with us now;
the lobe from which the thing had learned English; had learned indeed,
that there were other living things in the Universe besides Itself.

"Speak, human!" the monster said suddenly.

"Yes," I stammered. "Should have--killed me--yes."

"But I have not many humans here. Perhaps I shall kill you. Perhaps I
shall marry you to this human you call Dora. I have not yet decided."

       *       *       *       *       *

I had thought that Dora and I were standing by a railing. But like
the rest of this dwelling it was a barrage barrier. I could see its
outlines quivering in front of me; feel its repellent force so that if
I had taken a step forward it would shove me back.

Beside Dora and me now, Torkine had appeared. He stood gazing down at
Dora. His face, with the lurid glow on it, was grinning. And suddenly
the Supreme One said:

"You, Torkine, you tell me you knew this girl many of your years ago?"

"Yes, Master. Oh, yes." Torkine said ingratiatingly.

Knew Dora years ago? That was news to me.

"I shall think of it," the monster said. "There are several marriages
for me to perform presently in your Earth, and Mars and Venus fashions.
I need more humans here. You, Tom Ralston--have they told you my
purpose?"

"No," I said.

"We shall have a human world here for me to rule. A little world of
blended Mars and Venus and Earth. And then we will spread. The parts
of Me will go abroad to this great planet and that one, conquering!
Conquering everything, until at last I shall master the entire
Universe!"

Torkine was chuckling. I stood gripping Dora and my thoughts swung to
young Johnny Blair. He had some plan with the woman Setta to escape
from here. To me now it seemed a thing utterly hopeless.

And suddenly I shuddered, with a new stab of terror. Could this
monstrous Being read our human thoughts? Apparently not, for its voice
said sharply:

"For why do you chuckle, Torkine?"

"I was thinking of that fellow Bragg," Torkine responded, "who did his
work so badly on this last voyage to Earth. We brought only fifteen
more humans, Master."

"I am bringing Bragg here to see me and talk to him more closely," the
monster said. "You, Tom Ralston, and you, Dora Franklin--that is all I
wish of you now. You will learn my decision soon."

Threadlike streams from one of the brain-lobes of the monster were
swaying past me; and as I turned, I saw a dozen little Physicals
attached to the faintly luminous threads--Physicals who came marching
in with Bragg among them--Bragg, more pallid than ever with his
hawk-face contorted by terror. Torkine stood aside, still chuckling.
Then Physicals were surrounding Dora and me, herding us away. We
stumbled back through the luminous darkness; along a little path.
It was no more than a hundred feet until the outlines of a small
house--loomed before us. A voice from one of the Physicals said:

"You go inside and wait for my decision." A miniature of the monster's
central voice. I realized now that all the Physicals spoke with the
same voice, in miniature.

"All right," I said. "You'll have no trouble with us, Master."

The dim room was crudely furnished with Earth furniture. I sat the
trembling Dora on a couch; dropped beside her with my arm around her.

"Weird, Dora." I whispered it. "But don't be too frightened. We'll find
a way out of this."

In the shadows two figures suddenly were moving! Then I saw that they
were the Martian woman, Setta, and young Johnny Blair. They came
forward.

"The Physicals all went outside?" Johnny murmured.

"Yes," I agreed. "Good Lord, that weird monster--can it hear us, if we
whisper like this?"

"No. Safe enough, in here now."

       *       *       *       *       *

The room had the door through which we had entered, and two windows.
Both were open. In the glowing dimness outside we could see other
Physicals ranged in a line, watching us.

"The house is surrounded," Johnny whispered. "No way of getting
out--any break would be instant death. But a little later, when they're
getting ready for the marriages there's just a desperate chance.
There's generally a hundred Physicals guarding the spaceship, but not
so many tonight, if they are needed other places. Did he take Bragg in
there?"

"Yes," I agreed. "Bragg looked pretty frightened. Good Lord, if that
damned monster ever gets really angry--"

The words brought a terrified cry from Setta. "If only Bragg will be
brought here to us," she murmured. "I think I can get us outside to
