“Thanks,” said Harry awkwardly. 

They looked at each other for a long moment. Harry 
felt a burning desire to run from the room and, at the 
same time, a complete inability to move his feet. 

“Mistletoe,” said Cho quietly, pointing at the ceiling 
over his head. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. His mouth was very dry. “It’s 
probably full of nargles, though.” 

“What are nargles?” 

“No idea,” said Harry. She had moved closer. His 
brain seemed to have been Stunned. “You’d have to 
ask Loony. Luna, I mean.” 

Cho made a funny noise halfway between a sob and a 
laugh. She was even nearer him now. He could have 
counted the freckles on her nose. 

“I really like you, Harry.” 

He could not think. A tingling sensation was 
spreading throughout him, paralyzing his arms, legs, 
and brain. 

She was much too close. He could see every tear 
clinging to her eyelashes... 



Page | 583Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He returned to the common room half an hour later to 
find Hermione and Ron in the best seats by the fire; 
nearly everybody else had gone to bed. Hermione was 
writing a very long letter; she had already filled half a 
roll of parchment, which was dangling from the edge 
of the table. Ron was lying on the hearthrug, trying to 
finish his Transfiguration homework. 

“What kept you?” he asked, as Harry sank into the 
armchair next to Hermione ’s. 

Harry did not answer. He was in a state of shock. Half 
of him wanted to tell Ron and Hermione what had 
just happened, but the other half wanted to take the 
secret with him to the grave. 

“Are you all right, Harry?” Hermione asked, peering at 
him over the tip of her quill. 

Harry gave a halfhearted shrug. In truth, he didn’t 
know whether he was all right or not. “What’s up?” 
said Ron, hoisting himself up on his elbow to get a 
clearer view of Harry. “What’s happened?” 

Harry didn’t quite know how to set about telling them, 
and still wasn’t sure whether he wanted to. Just as he 
had decided not to say anything, Hermione took 
matters out of his hands. 

“Is it Cho?” she asked in a businesslike way. “Did she 
corner you after the meeting?” 

Numbly surprised, Harry nodded. Ron sniggered, 
breaking off when Hermione caught his eye. 

“So — er — what did she want?” he asked in a mock 
casual voice. 



Page | 584Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“She — ” Harry began, rather hoarsely; he cleared his 
throat and tried again. “She — er — ” 



“Did you kiss?” asked Hermione briskly. 

Ron sat up so fast that he sent his ink bottle flying all 
over the rug. Disregarding this completely he stared 
avidly at Harry. 

“Well?” he demanded. 

Harry looked from Ron’s expression of mingled 
curiosity and hilarity to Hermione’s slight frown, and 
nodded. 

“HA!” 

Ron made a triumphant gesture with his fist and 
went into a raucous peal of laughter that made 
several timid-looking second years over beside the 
window jump. A reluctant grin spread over Harry’s 
face as he watched Ron rolling around on the 
hearthrug. Hermione gave Ron a look of deep disgust 
and returned to her letter. 

“Well?” Ron said finally, looking up at Harry. “How 
was it?” 

Harry considered for a moment. 

“Wet,” he said truthfully. 

Ron made a noise that might have indicated 
jubilation or disgust, it was hard to tell. 

“Because she was crying,” Harry continued heavily. 

“Oh,” said Ron, his smile fading slightly. “Are you that 
bad at kissing?” 

Page | 585Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Dunno,” said Harry, who hadn’t considered this, and 
immediately felt rather worried. “Maybe I am.” 



“Of course you’re not,” said Hermione absently, still 
scribbling away at her letter. 

“How do you know?” said Ron in a sharp voice. 

“Because Cho spends half her time crying these 
days,” said Hermione vaguely. “She does it at 
mealtimes, in the loos, all over the place.” 

“You’d think a bit of kissing would cheer her up,” said 
Ron, grinning. 

“Ron,” said Hermione in a dignified voice, dipping the 
point of her quill into her ink pot, “you are the most 
insensitive wart I have ever had the misfortune to 
meet.” 

“What’s that supposed to mean?” said Ron 
indignantly. “What sort of person cries while 
someone’s kissing them?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, slightly desperately, “who does?” 

Hermione looked at the pair of them with an almost 
pitying expression on her face. 

“Don’t you understand how Cho’s feeling at the 
moment?” she asked. 

“No,” said Harry and Ron together. 

Hermione sighed and laid down her quill. 

“Well, obviously, she’s feeling very sad, because of 
Cedric dying. Then I expect she’s feeling confused 
because she liked Cedric and now she likes Harry, 

Page | 586Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and she can’t work out who she likes best. Then she’ll 
be feeling guilty, thinking it’s an insult to Cedric’s 
memory to be kissing Harry at all, and she’ll be 
worrying about what everyone else might say about 
her if she starts going out with Harry. And she 
probably can’t work out what her feelings toward 
Harry are anyway, because he was the one who was 
with Cedric when Cedric died, so that’s all very mixed 
up and painful. Oh, and she’s afraid she’s going to be 
thrown off the Ravenclaw Quidditch team because 
she’s been flying so badly.” 

A slightly stunned silence greeted the end of this 
speech, then Ron said, “One person can’t feel all that 
at once, they’d explode.” 

“Just because you’ve got the emotional range of a 
teaspoon doesn’t mean we all have,” said Hermione 
nastily, picking up her quill again. 

“She was the one who started it,” said Harry. “I 
wouldn’t’ve — she just sort of came at me — and next 
thing she’s crying all over me — I didn’t know what to 
do — ” 



“Don’t blame you, mate,” said Ron, looking alarmed at 
the very thought. 

“You just had to be nice to her,” said Hermione, 
looking up anxiously. “You were, weren’t you?” 

“Well,” said Harry, an unpleasant heat creeping up 
his face, “I sort of — patted her on the back a bit.” 

Hermione looked as though she was restraining 
herself from rolling her eyes with extreme difficulty. 

“Well, I suppose it could have been worse,” she said. 
“Are you going to see her again?” 

Page | 587Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll have to, won’t I?” said Harry. “We’ve got D.A. 
meetings, haven’t we?” 



“You know what I mean,” said Hermione impatiently. 

Harry said nothing. Hermione ’s words opened up a 
whole new vista of frightening possibilities. He tried to 
imagine going somewhere with Cho — Hogsmeade, 
perhaps — and being alone with her for hours at a 
time. Of course, she would have been expecting him 
to ask her out after what had just happened... The 
thought made his stomach clench painfully. 

“Oh well,” said Hermione distantly, buried in her 
letter once more, “you’ll have plenty of opportunities 
to ask her...” 

“What if he doesn’t want to ask her?” said Ron, who 
had been watching Harry with an unusually shrewd 
expression on his face. 

“Don’t be silly,” said Hermione vaguely, “Harry’s liked 
her for ages, haven’t you, Harry?” 

He did not answer. Yes, he had liked Cho for ages, 
but whenever he had imagined a scene involving the 
two of them it had always featured a Cho who was 
enjoying herself, as opposed to a Cho who was 
sobbing uncontrollably into his shoulder. 

“Who ’re you writing the novel to anyway?” Ron asked 
Hermione, trying to read the bit of parchment now 
trailing on the floor. Hermione hitched it up out of 
sight. 

“Viktor.” 

“Krum?” 

Page | 588Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“How many other Viktors do we know?” 



Ron said nothing, but looked disgruntled. They sat in 
silence for another twenty minutes, Ron finishing his 
Transfiguration essay with many snorts of impatience 
and crossings-out, Hermione writing steadily to the 
very end of the parchment, rolling it up carefully and 
sealing it, and Harry staring into the fire, wishing 
more than anything that Sirius’s head would appear 
there and give him some advice about girls. But the 
fire merely crackled lower and lower, until the red-hot 
embers crumbled into ash and, looking around, Harry 
saw that they were, yet again, the last in the common 
room. 

“Well, ’night,” said Hermione, yawning widely, and 
she set off up the girls’ staircase. 

“What does she see in Krum?” Ron demanded as he 
and Harry climbed the boys’ stairs. 

“Well,” said Harry, considering the matter, “I s’pose 
he’s older, isn’t he ... and he’s an international 
Quidditch player...” 

“Yeah, but apart from that,” said Ron, sounding 
aggravated. “I mean he’s a grouchy git, isn’t he?” 

“Bit grouchy, yeah,” said Harry, whose thoughts were 
still on Cho. 

They pulled off their robes and put on pajamas in 
silence; Dean, Seamus, and Neville were already 
asleep. Harry put his glasses on his bedside table and 
got into bed but did not pull the hangings closed 
around his four-poster; instead he stared at the patch 
of starry sky visible through the window next to 
Neville’s bed. If he had known, this time last night, 

Page | 589Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that in twenty-four hours’ time he would have kissed 
Cho Chang ... 



“ ’Night,” grunted Ron, from somewhere to his right. 

“ ’Night,” said Harry. 

Maybe next time ... if there was a next time ... she’d 
be a bit happier. He ought to have asked her out; she 
had probably been expecting it and was now really 
angry with him ... or was she lying in bed, still crying 
about Cedric? He did not know what to think. 
Hermione’s explanation had made it all seem more 
complicated rather than easier to understand. 

That’s what they should teach us here, he thought, 
turning over onto his side, how girls’ brains work ... 
it’d be more useful than Divination anyway... 

Neville snuffled in his sleep. An owl hooted 
somewhere out in the night. 

Harry dreamed he was back in the D.A. room. Cho 
was accusing him of luring her there under false 
pretenses; she said that he had promised her a 
hundred and fifty Chocolate Frog cards if she showed 
up. Harry protested... Cho shouted, “ Cedric gave me 
loads of Chocolate Frog cards, look\” And she pulled 
out fistfuls of cards from inside her robes and threw 
them into the air, and then turned into Hermione, 
who said, “You did promise her, you know, Harry... I 
think you’d better give her something else instead... 
How about your Firebolt?” And Harry was protesting 
that he could not give Cho his Firebolt because 
Umbridge had it, and anyway the whole thing was 
ridiculous, he’d only come to the D.A. room to put up 
some Christmas baubles shaped like Dobby’s head... 

The dream changed... 

Page | 590Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




His body felt smooth, powerful, and flexible. He was 
gliding between shining metal bars, across dark, cold 
stone... He was flat against the floor, sliding along on 
his belly... It was dark, yet he could see objects 
around him shimmering in strange, vibrant colors... 
He was turning his head... At first glance, the corridor 
was empty . . . but no ... a man was sitting on the floor 
ahead, his chin drooping onto his chest, his outline 
gleaming in the dark. . . 

Harry put out his tongue... He tasted the man’s scent 
on the air. . . He was alive but drowsing . . . sitting in 
front of a door at the end of the corridor . . . 

Harry longed to bite the man . . . but he must master 
the impulse... He had more important work to do... 

But the man was stirring ... a silvery cloak fell from 
his legs as he jumped to his feet; and Harry saw his 
vibrant, blurred outline towering above him, saw a 
wand withdrawn from a belt... He had no choice... He 
reared high from the floor and struck once, twice, 
three times, plunging his fangs deeply into the man’s 
flesh, feeling his ribs splinter beneath his jaws, feeling 
the warm gush of blood... 

The man was yelling in pain ... then he fell silent... He 
slumped backward against the wall... Blood was 
splattering onto the floor... 

His forehead hurt terribly. . . It was aching fit to 
burst... 

“Harry! HARRY!” 

He opened his eyes. Every inch of his body was 
covered in icy sweat; his bedcovers were twisted all 
around him like a straitjacket; he felt as though a 
white-hot poker was being applied to his forehead. 

Page | 591Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Harryl” 



Ron was standing over him looking extremely 
frightened. There were more figures at the foot of 
Harry’s bed. He clutched his head in his hands; the 
pain was blinding him... He rolled right over and 
vomited over the edge of the mattress. 

“He’s really ill,” said a scared voice. “Should we call 
someone?” 

“Harry! Harryl” 

He had to tell Ron, it was very important that he tell 
him... Taking great gulps of air, Harry pushed himself 
up in bed, willing himself not to throw up again, the 
pain half-blinding him. 

“Your dad,” he panted, his chest heaving. “Your dad’s 
... been attacked...” 

“What?” said Ron uncomprehendingly. 

“Your dad! He’s been bitten, it’s serious, there was 
blood everywhere...” 

“I’m going for help,” said the same scared voice, and 
Harry heard footsteps running out of the dormitory. 

“Harry, mate,” said Ron uncertainly, “you ... you were 
just dreaming...” 

“No!” said Harry furiously; it was crucial that Ron 
understand. “It wasn’t a dream ... not an ordinary 
dream... I was there, I saw it... I did it...” 

He could hear Seamus and Dean muttering but did 
not care. The pain in his forehead was subsiding 
slightly, though he was still sweating and shivering 

Page | 592Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




feverishly. He retched again and Ron leapt backward 
out of the way. 

“Harry, you’re not well,” he said shakily. “Neville’s 
gone for help...” 

“I’m fine!” Harry choked, wiping his mouth on his 
pajamas and shaking uncontrollably. “There’s nothing 
wrong with me, it’s your dad you’ve got to worry 
about — we need to find out where he is — he’s 
bleeding like mad — I was — it was a huge snake...” 

He tried to get out of bed but Ron pushed him back 
into it; Dean and Seamus were still whispering 
somewhere nearby. Whether one minute passed or 
ten, Harry did not know; he simply sat there shaking, 
feeling the pain recede very slowly from his scar. . . 
Then there were hurried footsteps coming up the 
stairs, and he heard Neville’s voice again. 

“Over here, Professor ...” 

Professor McGonagall came hurrying into the 
dormitory in her tartan dressing gown, her glasses 
perched lopsidedly on the bridge of her bony nose. 

“What is it, Potter? Where does it hurt?” 

He had never been so pleased to see her; it was a 
member of the Order of the Phoenix he needed now, 
not someone fussing over him and prescribing useless 
potions. 

“It’s Ron’s dad,” he said, sitting up again. “He’s been 
attacked by a snake and it’s serious, I saw it happen.” 

“What do you mean, you saw it happen?” said 
Professor McGonagall, her dark eyebrows contracting. 



Page | 593Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t know... I was asleep and then I was there...” 

“You mean you dreamed this?” 

“No!” said Harry angrily. Would none of them 
understand? “I was having a dream at first about 
something completely different, something stupid . . . 
and then this interrupted it. It was real, I didn’t 
imagine it, Mr. Weasley was asleep on the floor and 
he was attacked by a gigantic snake, there was a load 
of blood, he collapsed, someone’s got to find out 
where he is...” 

Professor McGonagall was gazing at him through her 
lopsided spectacles as though horrified at what she 
was seeing. 

“I’m not lying, and I’m not mad!” Harry told her, his 
voice rising to a shout. “I tell you, I saw it happen!” 

“I believe you, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall 
curtly. “Put on your dressing-gown — we’re going to 
see the headmaster.” 



Page | 594Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






& 



ST. MUNGO’S HOSPITAL FOR 
MAGICAL MALADIES AND INJURIES 

Harry was so relieved that she was taking him 
seriously that he did not hesitate, but jumped out of 
bed at once, pulled on his dressing gown, and pushed 
his glasses back onto his nose. 

“Weasley, you ought to come too,” said Professor 
McGonagall. 

They followed Professor McGonagall past the silent 
figures of Neville, Dean, and Seamus, out of the 
dormitory, down the spiral stairs into the common 
room, through the portrait hole, and off along the Fat 
Lady’s moonlit corridor. Harry felt as though the 
panic inside him might spill over at any moment; he 
wanted to run, to yell for Dumbledore. Mr. Weasley 
was bleeding as they walked along so sedately, and 
what if those fangs (Harry tried hard not to think “my 
fangs”) had been poisonous? They passed Mrs. Norris, 
who turned her lamplike eyes upon them and hissed 
faintly, but Professor McGonagall said, “Shoo!” Mrs. 



Page | 595Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Norris slunk away into the shadows, and in a few 
minutes they had reached the stone gargoyle 
guarding the entrance to Dumbledore’s office. 

“Fizzing Whizbee,” said Professor McGonagall. 

The gargoyle sprang to life and leapt aside; the wall 
behind it split in two to reveal a stone staircase that 
was moving continuously upward like a spiral 
escalator. The three of them stepped onto the moving 
stairs; the wall closed behind them with a thud, and 
they were moving upward in tight circles until they 
reached the highly polished oak door with the brass 
knocker shaped like a griffin. 

Though it was now well past midnight, there were 
voices coming from inside the room, a positive babble 
of them. It sounded as though Dumbledore was 
entertaining at least a dozen people. 

Professor McGonagall rapped three times with the 
griffin knocker, and the voices ceased abruptly as 
though someone had switched them all off. The door 
opened of its own accord and Professor McGonagall 
led Harry and Ron inside. 

The room was in half darkness; the strange silver 
instruments standing on tables were silent and still 
rather than whirring and emitting puffs of smoke as 
they usually did. The portraits of old headmasters 
and headmistresses covering the walls were all 
snoozing in their frames. Behind the door, a 
magnificent red-and-gold bird the size of a swan 
dozed on its perch with its head under its wing. 

“Oh, it’s you, Professor McGonagall ... and ... ah.” 

Dumbledore was sitting in a high-backed chair 
behind his desk; he leaned forward into the pool of 

Page | 596Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




candlelight illuminating the papers laid out before 
him. He was wearing a magnificently embroidered 
purple-and-gold dressing gown over a snowy-white 
nightshirt, but seemed wide awake, his penetrating 
light-blue eyes fixed intently upon Professor 
McGonagall. 

“Professor Dumbledore, Potter has had a ... well, a 
nightmare,” said Professor McGonagall. “He says ...” 

“It wasn’t a nightmare,” said Harry quickly. 

Professor McGonagall looked around at Harry, 
frowning slightly. 

“Very well, then, Potter, you tell the headmaster about 
it.” ~ 

“I ... well, I was asleep...” said Harry and even in his 
terror and his desperation to make Dumbledore 
understand he felt slightly irritated that the 
headmaster was not looking at him, but examining 
his own interlocked fingers. “But it wasn’t an ordinary 
dream ... it was real... I saw it happen...” He took a 
deep breath, “Ron’s dad — Mr. Weasley — has been 
attacked by a giant snake.” 

The words seemed to reverberate in the air after he 
had said them, slightly ridiculous, even comic. There 
was a pause in which Dumbledore leaned back and 
stared meditatively at the ceiling. Ron looked from 
Harry to Dumbledore, white-faced and shocked. 

“How did you see this?” Dumbledore asked quietly, 
still not looking at Harry. 

“Well ... I don’t know,” said Harry, rather angrily — 
what did it matter? “Inside my head, I suppose — ” 



Page | 597Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You misunderstand me,” said Dumbledore, still in 
the same calm tone. “I mean ... can you remember — 
er — where you were positioned as you watched this 
attack happen? Were you perhaps standing beside 
the victim, or else looking down on the scene from 
above?” 

This was such a curious question that Harry gaped at 
Dumbledore; it was almost as though he knew ... 

“I was the snake,” he said. “I saw it all from the 
snake’s point of view...” 

Nobody else spoke for a moment, then Dumbledore, 
now looking at Ron, who was still whey-faced, said in 
a new and sharper voice, “Is Arthur seriously 
injured?” 

“ Yes” said Harry emphatically — why were they all so 
slow on the uptake, did they not realize how much a 
person bled when fangs that long pierced their side? 
And why could Dumbledore not do him the courtesy 
of looking at him? 

But Dumbledore stood up so quickly that Harry 
jumped, and addressed one of the old portraits 
hanging very near the ceiling. 

“Everard?” he said sharply. “And you too, Dilys!” 

A sallow-faced wizard with short, black bangs and an 
elderly witch with long silver ringlets in the frame 
beside him, both of whom seemed to have been in the 
deepest of sleeps, opened their eyes immediately. 

“You were listening?” said Dumbledore. 

The wizard nodded, the witch said, “Naturally.” 



Page | 598Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“The man has red hair and glasses,” said 
Dumbledore. “Everard, you will need to raise the 
alarm, make sure he is found by the right people — ” 

Both nodded and moved sideways out of their frames, 
but instead of emerging in neighboring pictures (as 
usually happened at Hogwarts), neither reappeared; 
one frame now contained nothing but a backdrop of 
dark curtain, the other a handsome leather armchair. 
Harry noticed that many of the other headmasters 
and mistresses on the walls, though snoring and 
drooling most convincingly, kept sneaking peeks at 
him under their eyelids, and he suddenly understood 
who had been talking when they had knocked. 

“Everard and Dilys were two of Hogwarts ’s most 
celebrated Heads,” Dumbledore said, now sweeping 
around Harry, Ron, and Professor McGonagall and 
approaching the magnificent sleeping bird on his 
perch beside the door. “Their renown is such that 
both have portraits hanging in other important 
Wizarding institutions. As they are free to move 
between their own portraits they can tell us what may 
be happening elsewhere...” 

“But Mr. Weasley could be anywhere!” said Harry. 

“Please sit down, all three of you,” said Dumbledore, 
as though Harry had not spoken. “Everard and Dilys 
may not be back for several minutes... Professor 
McGonagall, if you could draw up extra chairs ...” 

Professor McGonagall pulled her wand from the 
pocket of her dressing gown and waved it; three 
chairs appeared out of thin air, straight-backed and 
wooden, quite unlike the comfortable chintz 
armchairs that Dumbledore had conjured back at 
Harry’s hearing. Harry sat down, watching 
Dumbledore over his shoulder. Dumbledore was now 
Page | 599Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




stroking Fawkes’s plumed golden head with one 
finger. The phoenix awoke immediately. He stretched 
his beautiful head high and observed Dumbledore 
through bright, dark eyes. 

“We will need,” said Dumbledore very quietly to the 
bird, “a warning.” 

There was a flash of fire and the phoenix had gone. 

Dumbledore now swooped down upon one of the 
fragile silver instruments whose function Harry had 
never known, carried it over to his desk, sat down 
facing them again, and tapped it gently with the tip of 
his wand. 

The instrument tinkled into life at once with rhythmic 
clinking noises. Tiny puffs of pale green smoke issued 
from the minuscule silver tube at the top. 

Dumbledore watched the smoke closely, his brow 
furrowed, and after a few seconds, the tiny puffs 
became a steady stream of smoke that thickened and 
coiled in the air... A serpent’s head grew out of the 
end of it, opening its mouth wide. Harry wondered 
whether the instrument was confirming his story: He 
looked eagerly at Dumbledore for a sign that he was 
right, but Dumbledore did not look up. 

“Naturally, naturally,” murmured Dumbledore 
apparently to himself, still observing the stream of 
smoke without the slightest sign of surprise. “But in 
essence divided?” 

Harry could make neither head nor tail of this 
question. The smoke serpent, however, split itself 
instantly into two snakes, both coiling and 
undulating in the dark air. With a look of grim 
satisfaction Dumbledore gave the instrument another 
gentle tap with his wand: The clinking noise slowed 
Page | 600Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and died, and the smoke serpents grew faint, became 
a formless haze, and vanished. 

Dumbledore replaced the instrument upon its spindly 
little table; Harry saw many of the old headmasters in 
the portraits follow him with their eyes, then, realizing 
that Harry was watching them, hastily pretend to be 
sleeping again. Harry wanted to ask what the strange 
silver instrument was for, but before he could do so, 
there was a shout from the top of the wall to their 
right; the wizard called Everard had reappeared in his 
portrait, panting slightly. 

“Dumbledore!” 

“What news?” said Dumbledore at once. 

“I yelled until someone came running,” said the 
wizard, who was mopping his brow on the curtain 
behind him, “said I’d heard something moving 
downstairs — they weren’t sure whether to believe me 
but went down to check — you know there are no 
portraits down there to watch from. Anyway, they 
carried him up a few minutes later. He doesn’t look 
good, he’s covered in blood, I ran along to Elfrida 
Cragg’s portrait to get a good view as they left — ” 

“Good,” said Dumbledore as Ron made a convulsive 
movement, “I take it Dilys will have seen him arrive, 
then — ” 

And moments later, the silver-ringletted witch had 
reappeared in her picture too; she sank, coughing, 
into her armchair and said, “Yes, they’ve taken him to 
St. Mungo’s, Dumbledore... They carried him past 
under my portrait... He looks bad...” 

“Thank you,” said Dumbledore. He looked around at 
Professor McGonagall. 

Page | 601Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Minerva, I need you to go and wake the other 
Weasley children.” 

“Of course...” 

Professor McGonagall got up and moved swiftly to the 
door; Harry cast a sideways glance at Ron, who was 
now looking terrified. 

“And Dumbledore — what about Molly?” said 
Professor McGonagall, pausing at the door. 

“That will be a job for Fawkes when he has finished 
keeping a lookout for anybody approaching,” said 
Dumbledore. “But she may already know ... that 
excellent clock of hers ...” 

Harry knew Dumbledore was referring to the clock 
that told, not the time, but the whereabouts and 
conditions of the various Weasley family members, 
and with a pang he thought that Mr. Weasley’s hand 
must, even now, be pointing at “mortal peril.” But it 
was very late... Mrs. Weasley was probably asleep, not 
watching the clock. . . And he felt cold as he 
remembered Mrs. Weasley’s boggart turning into Mr. 
Weasley’s lifeless body, his glasses askew, blood 
running down his face... But Mr. Weasley wasn’t 
going to die... He couldn’t... 

Dumbledore was now rummaging in a cupboard 
behind Harry and Ron. He emerged from it carrying a 
blackened old kettle, which he placed carefully upon 
his desk. He raised his wand and murmured “Portus”; 
for a moment the kettle trembled, glowing with an odd 
blue light, then it quivered to a rest, as solidly black 
as ever. 

Dumbledore marched over to another portrait, this 
time of a clever-looking wizard with a pointed beard, 

Page | 602Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




who had been painted wearing the Slytherin colors of 
green and silver and was apparently sleeping so 
deeply that he could not hear Dumbledore ’s voice 
when he attempted to rouse him. 

“Phineas. Phineas.” 

And now the subjects of the portraits lining the room 
were no longer pretending to be asleep; they were 
shifting around in their frames, the better to watch 
what was happening. When the clever-looking wizard 
continued to feign sleep, some of them shouted his 
name too. 

“Phineas! Phineas ! PHINEAS!” 

He could not pretend any longer; he gave a theatrical 
jerk and opened his eyes wide. 

“Did someone call?” 

“I need you to visit your other portrait again, 
Phineas,” said Dumbledore. “IVe got another 
message.” 

“Visit my other portrait?” said Phineas in a reedy 
voice, giving a long, fake yawn (his eyes traveling 
around the room and focusing upon Harry). “Oh no, 
Dumbledore, I am too tired tonight...” 

Something about Phineas ’s voice was familiar to 
Harry. Where had he heard it before? But before he 
could think, the portraits on the surrounding walls 
broke into a storm of protest. 

“Insubordination, sir!” roared a corpulent, red-nosed 
wizard, brandishing his fists. “Dereliction of duty!” 



Page | 603Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“We are honor-bound to give service to the present 
Headmaster of Hogwarts!” cried a frail-looking old 
wizard whom Harry recognized as Dumbledore’s 
predecessor, Armando Dippet. “Shame on you, 
Phineas!” 

“Shall I persuade him, Dumbledore?” called a gimlet- 
eyed witch, raising an unusually thick wand that 
looked not unlike a birch rod. 

“Oh, very well,” said the wizard called Phineas, eyeing 
this wand slightly apprehensively, “though he may 
well have destroyed my picture by now, he’s done 
most of the family — ” 

“Sirius knows not to destroy your portrait,” said 
Dumbledore, and Harry realized immediately where 
he had heard Phineas ’s voice before: issuing from the 
apparently empty frame in his bedroom in Grimmauld 
Place. “You are to give him the message that Arthur 
Weasley has been gravely injured and that his wife, 
children, and Harry Potter will be arriving at his 
house shortly. Do you understand?” 

“Arthur Weasley, injured, wife and children and Harry 
Potter coming to stay,” recited Phineas in a bored 
voice. “Yes, yes ... very well...” 

He sloped away into the frame of the portrait and 
disappeared from view at the very moment that the 
study door opened again. Fred, George, and Ginny 
were ushered inside by Professor McGonagall, all 
three of them looking disheveled and shocked, still in 
their night things. 

“Harry — what’s going on?” asked Ginny, who looked 
frightened. “Professor McGonagall says you saw Dad 
hurt — ” 



Page | 604Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Your father has been injured in the course of his 
work for the Order of the Phoenix,” said Dumbledore 
before Harry could speak. “He has been taken to St. 
Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. I 
am sending you back to Sirius’s house, which is 
much more convenient for the hospital than the 
Burrow. You will meet your mother there.” 

“How’re we going?” asked Fred, looking shaken. “Floo 
powder?” 

“No,” said Dumbledore, “Floo powder is not safe at the 
moment, the Network is being watched. You will be 
taking a Portkey.” He indicated the old kettle lying 
innocently on his desk. “We are just waiting for 
Phineas Nigellus to report back... I wish to be sure 
that the coast is clear before sending you — ” 

There was a flash of flame in the very middle of the 
office, leaving behind a single golden feather that 
floated gently to the floor. 

“It is Fawkes’s warning,” said Dumbledore, catching 
the feather as it fell. “She must know you’re out of 
your beds... Minerva, go and head her off — tell her 
