matter from his mind. Harry awaited an invitation to 
one of his little evening parties, determined to accept 
this time, even if he had to reschedule Quidditch 
practice. Unfortunately, however, no such invitation 
arrived. Harry checked with Hermione and Ginny: 
Neither of them had received an invitation and nor, as 
Page | 428 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




far as they knew, had anybody else. Harry could not 
help wondering whether this meant that Slughorn 
was not quite as forgetful as he appeared, simply 
determined to give Harry no additional opportunities 
to question him. 

Meanwhile, the Hogwarts library had failed Hermione 
for the first time in living memory. She was so 
shocked, she even forgot that she was annoyed at 
Harry for his trick with the bezoar. 

“I haven’t found one single explanation of what 
Horcruxes do!” she told him. “Not a single one! I’ve 
been right through the restricted section and even in 
the most horrible books, where they tell you how to 
brew the most gruesome potions — nothing! All I 
could find was this, in the introduction to Magick 
Moste Evile — listen — ‘Of the Horcrux, wickedest of 
magical inventions, we shall not speak nor give 
direction. ...’I mean, why mention it then?” she said 
impatiently, slamming the old book shut; it let out a 
ghostly wail. “Oh, shut up,” she snapped, stuffing it 
back into her bag. 

The snow melted around the school as February 
arrived, to be replaced by cold, dreary wetness. 
Purplish-gray clouds hung low over the castle and a 
constant fall of chilly rain made the lawns slippery 
and muddy. The upshot of this was that the sixth 
years’ first Apparition lesson, which was scheduled 
for a Saturday morning so that no normal lessons 
would be missed, took place in the Great Hall instead 
of in the grounds. 

When Harry and Hermione arrived in the Hall (Ron 
had come down with Lavender), they found that the 
tables had disappeared. Rain lashed against the high 
windows and the enchanted ceiling swirled darkly 
above them as they assembled in front of Professors 
Page | 429 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




McGonagall, Snape, Flitwick, and Sprout — the 
Heads of Houses — and a small wizard whom Harry 
took to be the Apparition instructor from the Ministry. 
He was oddly colorless, with transparent eyelashes, 
wispy hair, and an insubstantial air, as though a 
single gust of wind might blow him away. Harry 
wondered whether constant disappearances and 
reappearances had somehow diminished his 
substance, or whether this frail build was ideal for 
anyone wishing to vanish. 

“Good morning,” said the Ministry wizard, when all 
the students had arrived and the Heads of Houses 
had called for quiet. “My name is Wilkie Twycross and 
I shall be your Ministry Apparition instructor for the 
next twelve weeks. I hope to be able to prepare you for 
your Apparition Tests in this time — ” 

“Malfoy, be quiet and pay attention!” barked Professor 
McGonagall. 

Everybody looked around. Malfoy had flushed a dull 
pink; he looked furious as he stepped away from 
Crabbe, with whom he appeared to have been having 
a whispered argument. Harry glanced quickly at 
Snape, who also looked annoyed, though Harry 
strongly suspected that this was less because of 
Malfoy’s rudeness than the fact that McGonagall had 
reprimanded one of his House. 

“ — by which time, many of you may be ready to take 
your tests,” Twycross continued, as though there had 
been no interruption. 

“As you may know, it is usually impossible to 
Apparate or Disapparate within Hogwarts. The 
headmaster has lifted this enchantment, purely 
within the Great Hall, for one hour, so as to enable 
you to practice. May I emphasize that you will not be 
Page | 430 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




able to Apparate outside the walls of this Hall, and 
that you would be unwise to try. 

“I would like each of you to place yourselves now so 
that you have a clear five feet of space in front of 
you.” 

There was a great scrambling and jostling as people 
separated, banged into each other, and ordered 
others out of their space. The Heads of Houses moved 
among the students, marshaling them into position 
and breaking up arguments. 

“Harry, where are you going?” demanded Hermione. 

But Harry did not answer; he was moving quickly 
through the crowd, past the place where Professor 
Flitwick was making squeaky attempts to position a 
few Ravenclaws, all of whom wanted to be near the 
front, past Professor Sprout, who was chivying the 
Hufflepuffs into line, until, by dodging around Ernie 
Macmillan, he managed to position himself right at 
the back of the crowd, directly behind Malfoy, who 
was taking advantage of the general upheaval to 
continue his argument with Crabbe, standing five feet 
away and looking mutinous. 

“I don’t know how much longer, all right?” Malfoy 
shot at him, oblivious to Harry standing right behind 
him. “It’s taking longer than I thought it would.” 

Crabbe opened his mouth, but Malfoy appeared to 
second-guess what he was going to say. “Look, it’s 
none of your business what I’m doing, Crabbe, you 
and Goyle just do as you’re told and keep a lookout!” 

“I tell my friends what I’m up to, if I want them to 
keep a lookout for me,” Harry said, just loud enough 
for Malfoy to hear him. 

Page | 431 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy spun around on the spot, his hand flying to 
his wand, but at that precise moment the four Heads 
of House shouted, “Quiet!” and silence fell again. 
Malfoy turned slowly to face the front again. 

“Thank you,” said Twycross. “Now then ...” 

He waved his wand. Old-fashioned wooden hoops 
instantly appeared on the floor in front of every 
student. 

“The important things to remember when Apparating 
are the three D’s!” said Twycross. “Destination, 
Determination, Deliberation! 

“Step one: Fix your mind firmly upon the desired 
destination,” said Twycross. “In this case, the interior 
of your hoop. Kindly concentrate upon that 
destination now.” 

Everybody looked around furtively to check that 
everyone else was staring into their hoop, then hastily 
did as they were told. Harry gazed at the circular 
patch of dusty floor enclosed by his hoop and tried 
hard to think of nothing else. This proved impossible, 
as he couldn’t stop puzzling over what Malfoy was 
doing that needed lookouts. 

“Step two,” said Twycross, “focus your determination 
to occupy the visualized space! Let your yearning to 
enter it flood from your mind to every particle of your 
body!” 

Harry glanced around surreptitiously. A little way to 
his left, Ernie Macmillan was contemplating his hoop 
so hard that his face had turned pink; it looked as 
though he was straining to lay a Quaffle-sized egg. 
Harry bit back a laugh and hastily returned his gaze 
to his own hoop. 

Page | 432 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Step three,” called Twycross, “and only when I give 
the command ... Turn on the spot, feeling your way 
into nothingness, moving with deliberation ,! On my 
command, now . . . one — ” 

Harry glanced around again; lots of people were 
looking positively alarmed at being asked to Apparate 
so quickly. 

“— two — ” 

Harry tried to fix his thoughts on his hoop again; he 
had already forgotten what the three D’s stood for. 

THREE!” 

Harry spun on the spot, lost balance, and nearly fell 
over. He was not the only one. The whole Hall was 
suddenly full of staggering people; Neville was flat on 
his back; Ernie Macmillan, on the other hand, had 
done a kind of pirouetting leap into his hoop and 
looked momentarily thrilled, until he caught sight of 
Dean Thomas roaring with laughter at him. 

“Never mind, never mind,” said Twycross dryly, who 
did not seem to have expected anything better. 

“Adjust your hoops, please, and back to your original 
positions. ...” 

The second attempt was no better than the first. The 
third was just as bad. Not until the fourth did 
anything exciting happen. There was a horrible 
screech of pain and everybody looked around, 
terrified, to see Susan Bones of Hufflepuff wobbling in 
her hoop with her left leg still standing five feet away 
where she had started. 

The Heads of House converged on her; there was a 
great bang and a puff of purple smoke, which cleared 

Page | 433 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




to reveal Susan sobbing, reunited with her leg but 
looking horrified. 



“Splinching, or the separation of random body parts,” 
said Wilkie Twycross dispassionately, “occurs when 
the mind is insufficiently determined. You must 
concentrate continuously upon your destination , and 
move, without haste, but with deliberation ... thus.” 

Twycross stepped forward, turned gracefully on the 
spot with his arms outstretched, and vanished in a 
swirl of robes, reappearing at the back of the Hall. 

“Remember the three D’s,” he said, “and try again ... 
one — two — three — ” 

But an hour later, Susan’s Splinching was still the 
most interesting thing that had happened. Twycross 
did not seem discouraged. Fastening his cloak at his 
neck, he merely said, “Until next Saturday, 
everybody, and do not forget: Destination. 
Determination. Deliberation.” 

With that, he waved his wand, Vanishing the hoops, 
and walked out of the Hall accompanied by Professor 
McGonagall. Talk broke out at once as people began 
moving toward the entrance hall. 

“How did you do?” asked Ron, hurrying toward Harry. 
“I think I felt something the last time I tried — a kind 
of tingling in my feet.” 

“I expect your trainers are too small, Won-Won,” said 
a voice behind them, and Hermione stalked past, 
smirking. 

“I didn’t feel anything,” said Harry, ignoring this 
interruption. “But I don’t care about that now — ” 

Page | 434 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What d’you mean, you don’t care? Don’t you want to 
learn to Apparate?” said Ron incredulously. 

“I’m not fussed, really, I prefer flying,” said Harry, 
glancing over his shoulder to see where Malfoy was, 
and speeding up as they came into the entrance hall. 
“Look, hurry up, will you, there’s something I want to 
do. ...” 

Perplexed, Ron followed Harry back to the Gryffindor 
Tower at a run. They were temporarily detained by 
Peeves, who had jammed a door on the fourth floor 
shut and was refusing to let anyone pass until they 
set fire to their own pants, but Harry and Ron simply 
turned back and took one of their trusted shortcuts. 
Within five minutes, they were climbing through the 
portrait hole. 

“Are you going to tell me what we’re doing, then?” 
asked Ron, panting slightly. 

“Up here,” said Harry, and he crossed the common 
room and led the way through the door to the boys’ 
staircase. 

Their dormitory was, as Harry had hoped, empty. He 
flung open his trunk and began to rummage in it, 
while Ron watched impatiently. 

“Harry ...” 

“Malfoy ’s using Crabbe and Goyle as lookouts. He was 
arguing with Crabbe just now. I want to know — 
aha.” 

He had found it, a folded square of apparently blank 
parchment, which he now smoothed out and tapped 
with the tip of his wand. 



Page | 435 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I solemnly swear that I am up to no good ... or Malfoy 
is anyway.” 

At once, the Marauder’s Map appeared on the 
parchment’s surface. Here was a detailed plan of 
every one of the castle’s floors and, moving around it, 
the tiny, labeled black dots that signified each of the 
castle’s occupants. 

“Help me find Malfoy,” said Harry urgently. 

He laid the map upon his bed, and he and Ron leaned 
over it, searching. 

“There!” said Ron, after a minute or so. “He’s in the 
Slytherin common room, look . . . with Parkinson and 
Zabini and Crabbe and Goyle ...” 

Harry looked down at the map, disappointed, but 
rallied almost at once. 

“Well, I’m keeping an eye on him from now on,” he 
said firmly. “And the moment I see him lurking 
somewhere with Crabbe and Goyle keeping watch 
outside, it’ll be on with the old Invisibility Cloak and 
off to find out what he’s — ” 

He broke off as Neville entered the dormitory, bringing 
with him a strong smell of singed material, and began 
rummaging in his trunk for a fresh pair of pants. 

Despite his determination to catch Malfoy out, Harry 
had no luck at all over the next couple of weeks. 
Although he consulted the map as often as he could, 
sometimes making unnecessary visits to the 
bathroom between lessons to search it, he did not 
once see Malfoy anywhere suspicious. Admittedly, he 
spotted Crabbe and Goyle moving around the castle 
on their own more often than usual, sometimes 
Page | 436 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




remaining stationary in deserted corridors, but at 
these times Malfoy was not only nowhere near them, 
but impossible to locate on the map at all. This was 
most mysterious. Harry toyed with the possibility that 
Malfoy was actually leaving the school grounds, but 
could not see how he could be doing it, given the very 
high level of security now operating within the castle. 
He could only suppose that he was missing Malfoy 
amongst the hundreds of tiny black dots upon the 
map. As for the fact that Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle 
appeared to be going their different ways when they 
were usually inseparable, these things happened as 
people got older — Ron and Hermione, Harry reflected 
sadly, were living proof. 

February moved toward March with no change in the 
weather except that it became windy as well as wet. 

To general indignation, a sign went up on all common 
room notice boards that the next trip into Hogsmeade 
had been canceled. Ron was furious. 

“It was on my birthday!” he said. “I was looking 
forward to that!” 

“Not a big surprise, though, is it?” said Harry. “Not 
after what happened to Katie.” 

She had still not returned from St. Mungo’s. What 
was more, further disappearances had been reported 
in the Daily Prophet, including several relatives of 
students at Hogwarts. 

“But now all I’ve got to look forward to is stupid 
Apparition!” said Ron grumpily. “Big birthday treat ...” 

Three lessons on, Apparition was proving as difficult 
as ever, though a few more people had managed to 
Splinch themselves. Frustration was running high 
and there was a certain amount of ill-feeling toward 

Page | 437 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Wilkie Twycross and his three D’s, which had inspired 
a number of nicknames for him, the politest of which 
were Dogbreath and Dunghead. 

“Happy birthday, Ron,” said Harry, when they were 
woken on the first of March by Seamus and Dean 
leaving noisily for breakfast. “Have a present.” 

He threw the package across onto Ron’s bed, where it 
joined a small pile of them that must, Harry assumed, 
have been delivered by house-elves in the night. 

“Cheers,” said Ron drowsily and, as he ripped off the 
paper, Harry got out of bed, opened his own trunk, 
and began rummaging in it for the Marauder’s Map, 
which he hid after every use. He turfed out half the 
contents of his trunk before he found it hiding 
beneath the rolled-up socks in which he was still 
keeping his bottle of lucky potion, Felix Felicis. 

“Right,” he murmured, taking it back to bed with him, 
tapping it quietly and murmuring, “ I solemnly swear 
that I am up to no good,” so that Neville, who was 
passing the foot of his bed at the time, would not 
hear. 

“Nice one, Harry!” said Ron enthusiastically, waving 
the new pair of Quidditch Keeper’s gloves Harry had 
given him. 

“No problem,” said Harry absentmindedly, as he 
searched the Slytherin dormitory closely for Malfoy. 
“Hey ... I don’t think he’s in his bed. ...” 

Ron did not answer; he was too busy unwrapping 
presents, every now and then letting out an 
exclamation of pleasure. 



Page | 438 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Seriously good haul this year!” he announced, 
holding up a heavy gold watch with odd symbols 
around the edge and tiny moving stars instead of 
hands. “See what Mum and Dad got me? Blimey, I 
think I’ll come of age next year too. ...” 

“Cool,” muttered Harry, sparing the watch a glance 
before peering more closely at the map. Where was 
Malfoy? He did not seem to be at the Slytherin table 
in the Great Hall, eating breakfast. ... He was 
nowhere near Snape, who was sitting in his study. ... 
He wasn’t in any of the bathrooms or in the hospital 
wing. ... 

“Want one?” said Ron thickly, holding out a box of 
Chocolate Cauldrons. 

“No thanks,” said Harry, looking up. “Malfoy’s gone 
again!” 

“Can’t have done,” said Ron, stuffing a second 
Cauldron into his mouth as he slid out of bed to get 
dressed. “Come on, if you don’t hurry up, you’ll have 
to Apparate on an empty stomach. ... Might make it 
easier, I suppose ...” Ron looked thoughtfully at the 
box of Chocolate Cauldrons, then shrugged and 
helped himself to a third. 

Harry tapped the map with his wand, muttered, 
“Mischief managed,” though it hadn’t been, and got 
dressed, thinking hard. There had to be an 
explanation for Malfoy’s periodic disappearances, but 
he simply could not think what it could be. The best 
way of finding out would be to tail him, but even with 
the Invisibility Cloak this was an impractical idea: 
Harry had lessons, Quidditch practice, homework, 
and Apparition; he could not follow Malfoy around 
school all day without his absence being remarked 
upon. 

Page | 439 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Ready?” he said to Ron. 

He was halfway to the dormitory door when he 
realized that Ron had not moved, but was leaning on 
his bedpost, staring out of the rain-washed window 
with a strangely unfocused look on his face. 

“Ron? Breakfast.” 

“I’m not hungry.” 

Harry stared at him. 

“I thought you just said — ?” 

“Well, all right, I’ll come down with you,” sighed Ron, 
“but I don’t want to eat.” 

Harry scrutinized him suspiciously. 

“You’ve just eaten half a box of Chocolate Cauldrons, 
haven’t you?” 

“It’s not that,” Ron sighed again. “You ... you wouldn’t 
understand.” 

“Fair enough,” said Harry, albeit puzzled, as he 
turned to open the door. 

“Harry!” said Ron suddenly. 

“What?” 

“Harry, I can’t stand it!” 

“You can’t stand what?” asked Harry, now starting to 
feel definitely alarmed. Ron was rather pale and 
looked as though he was about to be sick. 



Page | 440 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I can’t stop thinking about her!” said Ron hoarsely. 

Harry gaped at him. He had not expected this and 
was not sure he wanted to hear it. Friends they might 
be, but if Ron started calling Lavender “Lav-Lav,” he 
would have to put his foot down. 

“Why does that stop you having breakfast?” Harry 
asked, trying to inject a note of common sense into 
the proceedings. 

“I don’t think she knows I exist,” said Ron with a 
desperate gesture. 

“She definitely knows you exist,” said Harry, 
bewildered. “She keeps snogging you, doesn’t she?” 

Ron blinked. “Who are you talking about?” 

“Who are you talking about?” said Harry, with an 
increasing sense that all reason had dropped out of 
the conversation. 

“Romilda Vane,” said Ron softly, and his whole face 
seemed to illuminate as he said it, as though hit by a 
ray of purest sunlight. 

They stared at each other for almost a whole minute, 
before Harry said, “This is a joke, right? You’re 
joking.” 

“I think ... Harry, I think I love her,” said Ron in a 
strangled voice. 

“Okay,” said Harry, walking up to Ron to get a better 
look at the glazed eyes and the pallid complexion, 
“okay... Say that again with a straight face.” 



Page | 441 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I love her,” repeated Ron breathlessly. “Have you 
seen her hair, it’s all black and shiny and silky ... and 
her eyes? Her big dark eyes? And her — ” 

“This is really funny and everything,” said Harry 
impatiently, “but joke’s over, all right? Drop it.” 

He turned to leave; he had got two steps toward the 
door when a crashing blow hit him on the right ear. 
Staggering, he looked around. Ron’s fist was drawn 
right back; his face was contorted with rage; he was 
about to strike again. 

Harry reacted instinctively; his wand was out of his 
pocket and the incantation sprang to mind without 
conscious thought: Levicorpus\ 

Ron yelled as his heel was wrenched upward once 
more; he dangled helplessly, upside down, his robes 
hanging off him. 

“ What was that for?” Harry bellowed. 

“You insulted her, Harry! You said it was a joke!” 
shouted Ron, who was slowly turning purple in the 
face as all the blood rushed to his head. 

“This is insane!” said Harry. “What’s got into — ?” 

And then he saw the box lying open on Ron’s bed, 
and the truth hit him with the force of a stampeding 
troll. 

“Where did you get those Chocolate Cauldrons?” 

“They were a birthday present!” shouted Ron, 
revolving slowly in midair as he struggled to get free. 

“I offered you one, didn’t I?” 



Page | 442 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You just picked them up off the floor, didn’t you?” 



“They’d fallen off my bed, all right? Let me go!” 

“They didn’t fall off your bed, you prat, don’t you 
understand? They were mine, I chucked them out of 
my trunk when I was looking for the map, they’re the 
Chocolate Cauldrons Romilda gave me before 
Christmas, and they’re all spiked with love potion!” 

But only one word of this seemed to have registered 
with Ron. 

“Romilda?” he repeated. “Did you say Romilda? Harry 
— do you know her? Can you introduce me?” 

Harry stared at the dangling Ron, whose face now 
looked tremendously hopeful, and fought a strong 
desire to laugh. A part of him — the part closest to 
his throbbing right ear — was quite keen on the idea 
of letting Ron down and watching him run amok until 
the effects of the potion wore off. . . . But on the other 
hand, they were supposed to be friends, Ron had not 
been himself when he had attacked, and Harry 
thought that he would deserve another punching if he 
permitted Ron to declare undying love for Romilda 
Vane. 

“Yeah, I’ll introduce you,” said Harry, thinking fast. 
“I’m going to let you down now, okay?” 

He sent Ron crashing back to the floor (his ear did 
hurt quite a lot), but Ron simply bounded to his feet 
again, grinning. 

“She’ll be in Slughorn’s office,” said Harry confidently, 
leading the way to the door. 



Page | 443 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Why will she be in there?” asked Ron anxiously, 
hurrying to keep up. 

“Oh, she has extra Potions lessons with him,” said 
Harry, inventing wildly. 

“Maybe I could ask if I can have them with her?” said 
Ron eagerly. 

“Great idea,” said Harry. 

Lavender was waiting beside the portrait hole, a 
complication Harry had not foreseen. 

“You’re late, Won-Won!” she pouted. “I’ve got you a 
birthday — ” 

“Leave me alone,” said Ron impatiently. “Harry’s going 
to introduce me to Romilda Vane.” 

And without another word to her, he pushed his way 
out of the portrait hole. Harry tried to make an 
apologetic face to Lavender, but it might have turned 
out simply amused, because she looked more 
offended than ever as the Fat Lady swung shut 
behind them. 

Harry had been slightly worried that Slughorn might 
be at breakfast, but he answered his office door at the 
first knock, wearing a green velvet dressing gown and 
matching nightcap and looking rather bleary-eyed. 

“Harry,” he mumbled. “This is very early for a call. ... I 
generally sleep late on a Saturday. ...” 

“Professor, I’m really sorry to disturb you,” said Harry 
as quietly as possible, while Ron stood on tiptoe, 
attempting to see past Slughorn into his room, “but 
my friend Ron’s swallowed a love potion by mistake. 

Page | 444 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




You couldn’t make him an antidote, could you? I’d 
take him to Madam Pomfrey, but we’re not supposed 
to have anything from Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes and, 
you know ... awkward questions ...” 

“I’d have thought you could have whipped him up a 
remedy, Harry, an expert potioneer like you?” asked 
Slughorn. 

“Er,” said Harry, somewhat distracted by the fact that 
Ron was now elbowing him in the ribs in an attempt 
to force his way into the room, “well, I’ve never mixed 
an antidote for a love potion, sir, and by the time I get 
it right, Ron might’ve done something serious — ” 

Helpfully, Ron chose this moment to moan, “I can’t 
see her, Harry — is he hiding her?” 

“Was this potion within date?” asked Slughorn, now 
eyeing Ron with professional interest. “They can 
strengthen, you know, the longer they’re kept.” 

“That would explain a lot,” panted Harry, now 
positively wrestling with Ron to keep him from 
knocking Slughorn over. “It’s his birthday, Professor,” 
he added imploringly. 

“Oh, all right, come in, then, come in,” said Slughorn, 
relenting. “I’ve got the necessary here in my bag, it’s 
not a difficult antidote. ...” 

Ron burst through the door into Slughorn ’s 
overheated, crowded study, tripped over a tasseled 
footstool, regained his balance by seizing Harry 
around the neck, and muttered, “She didn’t see that, 
did she?” 



Page | 445 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s not here yet,” said Harry, watching Slughorn 
opening his potion kit and adding a few pinches of 
this and that to a small crystal bottle. 

“That’s good,” said Ron fervently. “How do I look?” 

“Very handsome,” said Slughorn smoothly, handing 
Ron a glass of clear liquid. “Now drink that up, it’s a 
tonic for the nerves, keep you calm when she arrives, 
you know.” 

“Brilliant,” said Ron eagerly, and he gulped the 
antidote down noisily. 

Harry and Slughorn watched him. For a moment, Ron 
beamed at them. Then, very slowly, his grin sagged 
and vanished, to be replaced by an expression of 
utmost horror. 

“Back to normal, then?” said Harry, grinning. 
Slughorn chuckled. “Thanks a lot, Professor.” 

“Don’t mention it, m’boy, don’t mention it,” said 
Slughorn, as Ron collapsed into a nearby armchair, 
looking devastated. “Pick-me-up, that’s what he 
needs,” Slughorn continued, now bustling over to a 
table loaded with drinks. “I’ve got butterbeer, I’ve got 
wine, I’ve got one last bottle of this oak-matured mead 
. . . hmm . . . meant to give that to Dumbledore for 
Christmas ... ah, well ...” He shrugged. “He can’t miss 
what he’s never had! Why don’t we open it now and 
celebrate Mr. Weasley’s birthday? Nothing like a fine 
spirit to chase away the pangs of disappointed love. 



He chortled again, and Harry joined in. This was the 
first time he had found himself almost alone with 
Slughorn since his disastrous first attempt to extract 
the true memory from him. Perhaps, if he could just 

Page | 446 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




keep Slughorn in a good mood . . . perhaps if they got 
through enough of the oak-matured mead . . . 

“There you are then,” said Slughorn, handing Harry 
and Ron a glass of mead each before raising his own. 
“Well, a very happy birthday, Ralph — ” 

“Ron — ” whispered Harry. 

But Ron, who did not appear to be listening to the 
toast, had already thrown the mead into his mouth 
and swallowed it. 

There was one second, hardly more than a heartbeat, 
in which Harry knew there was something terribly 
wrong and Slughorn, it seemed, did not. 

“ — and may you have many more — ” 

“Ron\” 

Ron had dropped his glass; he half-rose from his 
chair and then crumpled, his extremities jerking 
uncontrollably. Foam was dribbling from his mouth, 
and his eyes were bulging from their sockets. 

“Professor!” Harry bellowed. “Do something!” 

But Slughorn seemed paralyzed by shock. Ron 
twitched and choked: His skin was turning blue. 

“What — but — ” spluttered Slughorn. 

Harry leapt over a low table and sprinted toward 
Slughorn ’s open potion kit, pulling out jars and 
pouches, while the terrible sound of Ron’s gargling 
breath filled the room. Then he found it — the 
shriveled kidneylike stone Slughorn had taken from 
him in Potions. 

Page | 447 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




He hurtled back to Ron’s side, wrenched open his 
jaw, and thrust the bezoar into his mouth. Ron gave a 
great shudder, a rattling gasp, and his body became 
limp and still. 



Page | 448 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 








ELF TAILS 

“So, all in all, not one of Ron’s better birthdays?” said 
Fred. 

It was evening; the hospital wing was quiet, the 
windows curtained, the lamps lit. Ron’s was the only 
occupied bed. Harry, Hermione, and Ginny were 
sitting around him; they had spent all day waiting 
outside the double doors, trying to see inside 
whenever somebody went in or out. Madam Pomfrey 
had only let them enter at eight o’clock. Fred and 
George had arrived at ten past. 

“This isn’t how we imagined handing over our 
present,” said George grimly, putting down a large 
wrapped gift on Ron’s bedside cabinet and sitting 
beside Ginny. 

“Yeah, when we pictured the scene, he was 
conscious,” said Fred. 

“There we were in Hogsmeade, waiting to surprise 
him — ” said George. 

Page | 449 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“You were in Hogsmeade?” asked Ginny, looking up. 

“We were thinking of buying Zonko’s,” said Fred 
gloomily. “A Hogsmeade branch, you know, but a fat 
lot of good it’ll do us if you lot aren’t allowed out at 
weekends to buy our stuff anymore. ... But never 
mind that now.” 

He drew up a chair beside Harry and looked at Ron’s 
pale face. 

“How exactly did it happen, Harry?” 

Harry retold the story he had already recounted, it felt 
like a hundred times to Dumbledore, to McGonagall, 
to Madam Pomfrey, to Hermione, and to Ginny. 

"... and then I got the bezoar down his throat and his 
breathing eased up a bit, Slughorn ran for help, 
McGonagall and Madam Pomfrey turned up, and they 
brought Ron up here. They reckon he’ll be all right. 
Madam Pomfrey says hell have to stay here a week or 
so ... keep taking essence of rue ...” 

“Blimey, it was lucky you thought of a bezoar,” said 
George in a low voice. 

“Lucky there was one in the room,” said Harry, who 
kept turning cold at the thought of what would have 
happened if he had not been able to lay hands on the 
little stone. 

Hermione gave an almost inaudible sniff. She had 
been exceptionally quiet all day. Having hurtled, 
white-faced, up to Harry outside the hospital wing 
and demanded to know what had happened, she had 
taken almost no part in Harry and Ginny’s obsessive 
discussion about how Ron had been poisoned, but 
merely stood beside them, clench-jawed and 
Page | 450 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




frightened-looking, until at last they had been allowed 
in to see him. 

“Do Mum and Dad know?” Fred asked Ginny. 

“They’ve already seen him, they arrived an hour ago 
— they’re in Dumbledore’s office now, but they’ll be 
back soon. ...” 

There was a pause while they all watched Ron 
mumble a little in his sleep. 

“So the poison was in the drink?” said Fred quietly. 

“Yes,” said Harry at once; he could think of nothing 
else and was glad for the opportunity to start 
discussing it again. “Slughorn poured it out — ” 

“Would he have been able to slip something into Ron’s 
glass without you seeing?” 

“Probably,” said Harry, “but why would Slughorn 
want to poison Ron?” 

“No idea,” said Fred, frowning. “You don’t think he 
could have mixed up the glasses by mistake? Meaning 
to get you?” 

“Why would Slughorn want to poison Harry?” asked 
Ginny. 

“I dunno,” said Fred, “but there must be loads of 
people who’d like to poison Harry, mustn’t there? The 
Chosen One’ and all that?” 

“So you think Slughorn ’s a Death Eater?” said Ginny. 
“Anything’s possible,” said Fred darkly. 


