president assigned me herself. She decided the propos
needed some heating up."
Maybe they do. But if Coin sent Peeta here, she's
decided something else as well. That I'm of more use to her
dead than alive.
PART III
"THE ASSASSIN"
19
I've never really seen Boggs angry before. Not when
I've disobeyed his orders or puked on him, not even when
Gale broke his nose. But he's angry when he returns from
his phone call with the president. The first thing he does is
instruct Soldier Jackson, his second in command, to set up
a two-person, round-the-clock guard on Peeta. Then he
takes me on a walk, weaving through the sprawling tent
encampment until our squad is far behind us.
"He'll try and kill me anyway," I say. "Especially here.
Where there are so many bad memories to set him off."
"I'll keep him contained, Katniss," says Boggs.
"Why does Coin want me dead now?" I ask.
"She denies she does," he answers.
"But we know it's true," I say. "And you must at least
have a theory."
Boggs gives me a long, hard look before he answers.
"Here's as much as I know. The president doesn't like you.
She never did. It was Peeta she wanted rescued from the
arena, but no one else agreed. It made matters worse when
you forced her to give the other victors immunity. But even
that could be overlooked in view of how well you've
performed."
"Then what is it?" I insist.
"Sometime in the near future, this war will be resolved.
A new leader will be chosen," says Boggs.
I roll my eyes. "Boggs, no one thinks I'm going to be
the leader."
"No. They don't," he agrees. "But you'll throw support to
someone. Would it be President Coin? Or someone else?"
"I don't know. I've never thought about it," I say.
"If your immediate answer isn't Coin, then you're a
threat. You're the face of the rebellion. You may have more
influence than any other single person," says Boggs.
"Outwardly, the most you've ever done is tolerated her."
"So she'll kill me to shut me up." The minute I say the
words, I know they're true.
"She doesn't need you as a rallying point now. As she
said, your primary objective, to unite the districts, has
succeeded," Boggs reminds me. "These current propos
could be done without you. There's only one last thing you
could do to add fire to the rebellion."
"Die," I say quietly.
"Yes. Give us a martyr to fight for," says Boggs. "But
that's not going to happen under my watch, Soldier
Everdeen. I'm planning for you to have a long life."
"Why?" This kind of thinking will only bring him trouble.
"You don't owe me anything."
"Because you've earned it," he says. "Now get back to
your squad."
I know I should feel appreciative of Boggs sticking his
neck out for me, but really I'm just frustrated. I mean, how
can I steal his Holo and desert now? Betraying him was
complicated enough without this whole new layer of debt. I
already owe him for saving my life.
Seeing the cause of my current dilemma calmly
pitching his tent back at our site makes me furious. "What
time is my watch?" I ask Jackson.
She squints at me in doubt, or maybe she's just trying
to get my face in focus. "I didn't put you in the rotation."
"Why not?" I ask.
"I'm not sure you could really shoot Peeta, if it came to
it," she says.
I speak up so the whole squad can hear me clearly. "I
wouldn't be shooting Peeta. He's gone. Johanna's right. It'd
be just like shooting another of the Capitol's mutts." It feels
good to say something horrible about him, out loud, in
public, after all the humiliation I've felt since his return.
"Well, that sort of comment isn't recommending you
either," says Jackson.
"Put her in the rotation," I hear Boggs say behind me.
Jackson shakes her head and makes a note.
"Midnight to four. You're on with me."
The dinner whistle sounds, and Gale and I line up at
the canteen. "Do you want me to kill him?" he asks bluntly.
"That'll get us both sent back for sure," I say. But even
though I'm furious, the brutality of the offer rattles me. "I can
deal with him."
"You mean until you take off? You and your paper map
and possibly a Holo if you can get your hands on it?" So
Gale has not missed my preparations. I hope they haven't
been so obvious to the others. None of them know my mind
like he does, though. "You're not planning on leaving me
behind, are you?" he asks.
Up until this point, I was. But having my hunting partner
to watch my back doesn't sound like a bad idea. "As your
fellow soldier, I have to strongly recommend you stay with
your squad. But I can't stop you from coming, can I?"
He grins. "No. Not unless you want me to alert the rest
of the army."
Squad 451 and the television crew collect dinner from
the canteen and gather in a tense circle to eat. At first I think
that Peeta is the cause of the unease, but by the end of the
meal, I realize more than a few unfriendly looks have been
directed my way. This is a quick turnaround, since I'm pretty
sure when Peeta appeared the whole team was concerned
about how dangerous he might be, especially to me. But it's
not until I get a phone call through to Haymitch that I
understand.
"What are you trying to do? Provoke him into an
attack?" he asks me.
"Of course not. I just want him to leave me alone," I say.
"Well, he can't. Not after what the Capitol put him
through," says Haymitch. "Look, Coin may have sent him
there hoping he'd kill you, but Peeta doesn't know that. He
doesn't understand what's happened to him. So you can't
blame him--"
"I don't!" I say.
"You do! You're punishing him over and over for things
that are out of his control. Now, I'm not saying you shouldn't
have a fully loaded weapon next to you round the clock. But
I think it's time you flipped this little scenario around in your
head. If you'd been taken by the Capitol, and hijacked, and
then tried to kill Peeta, is this the way he would be treating
you?" demands Haymitch.
I fall silent. It isn't. It isn't how he would be treating me at
all. He would be trying to get me back at any cost. Not
shutting me out, abandoning me, greeting me with hostility
at every turn.
"You and me, we made a deal to try and save him.
Remember?" Haymitch says. When I don't respond, he
disconnects after a curt "Try and remember."
The autumn day turns from brisk to cold. Most of the
squad hunker down in their sleeping bags. Some sleep
under the open sky, close to the heater in the center of our
camp, while others retreat to their tents. Leeg 1 has finally
broken down over her sister's death, and her muffled sobs
reach us through the canvas. I huddle in my tent, thinking
over Haymitch's words. Realizing with shame that my
fixation with assassinating Snow has allowed me to ignore
a much more difficult problem. Trying to rescue Peeta from
the shadowy world the hijacking has stranded him in. I don't
know how to find him, let alone lead him out. I can't even
conceive of a plan. It makes the task of crossing a loaded
arena, locating Snow, and putting a bullet through his head
look like child's play.
At midnight, I crawl out of my tent and position myself
on a camp stool near the heater to take my watch with
Jackson. Boggs told Peeta to sleep out in full view where
the rest of us could keep an eye on him. He isn't sleeping,
though. Instead, he sits with his bag pulled up to his chest,
clumsily trying to make knots in a short length of rope. I
know it well. It's the one Finnick lent me that night in the
bunker. Seeing it in his hands, it's like Finnick's echoing
what Haymitch just said, that I've cast off Peeta. Now might
be a good time to begin to remedy that. If I could think of
something to say. But I can't. So I don't. I just let the sounds
of soldiers' breathing fill the night.
After about an hour, Peeta speaks up. "These last
couple of years must have been exhausting for you. Trying
to decide whether to kill me or not. Back and forth. Back
and forth."
That seems grossly unfair, and my first impulse is to
say something cutting. But I revisit my conversation with
Haymitch and try to take the first tentative step in Peeta's
direction. "I never wanted to kill you. Except when I thought
you were helping the Careers kill me. After that, I always
thought of you as...an ally." That's a good safe word. Empty
of any emotional obligation, but nonthreatening.
"Ally." Peeta says the word slowly, tasting it. "Friend.
Lover. Victor. Enemy. Fiancee. Target. Mutt. Neighbor.
Hunter. Tribute. Ally. I'll add it to the list of words I use to try
to figure you out." He weaves the rope in and out of his
fingers. "The problem is, I can't tell what's real anymore,
and what's made up."
The cessation of rhythmic breathing suggests that
either people have woken or have never really been asleep
at all. I suspect the latter.
Finnick's voice rises from a bundle in the shadows.
"Then you should ask, Peeta. That's what Annie does."
"Ask who?" Peeta says. "Who can I trust?"
"Well, us for starters. We're your squad," says
Jackson.
"You're my guards," he points out.
"That, too," she says. "But you saved a lot of lives in
Thirteen. It's not the kind of thing we forget."
In the quiet that follows, I try to imagine not being able
to tell illusion from reality. Not knowing if Prim or my mother
loved me. If Snow was my enemy. If the person across the
heater saved or sacrificed me. With very little effort, my life
rapidly morphs into a nightmare. I suddenly want to tell
Peeta everything about who he is, and who I am, and how
we ended up here. But I don't know how to start. Worthless.
I'm worthless.
At a few minutes before four, Peeta turns to me again.
"Your favorite color...it's green?"
"That's right." Then I think of something to add. "And
yours is orange."
"Orange?" He seems unconvinced.
"Not bright orange. But soft. Like the sunset," I say. "At
least, that's what you told me once."
"Oh." He closes his eyes briefly, maybe trying to
conjure up that sunset, then nods his head. "Thank you."
But more words tumble out. "You're a painter. You're a
baker. You like to sleep with the windows open. You never
take sugar in your tea. And you always double-knot your
shoelaces."
Then I dive into my tent before I do something stupid
like cry.
In the morning, Gale, Finnick, and I go out to shoot
some glass off the buildings for the camera crew. When we
get back to camp, Peeta's sitting in a circle with the
soldiers from 13, who are armed but talking openly with
him. Jackson has devised a game called "Real or Not
Real" to help Peeta. He mentions something he thinks
happened, and they tell him if it's true or imagined, usually
followed by a brief explanation.
"Most of the people from Twelve were killed in the fire."
"Real. Less than nine hundred of you made it to
Thirteen alive."
"The fire was my fault."
"Not real. President Snow destroyed Twelve the way
he did Thirteen, to send a message to the rebels."
This seems like a good idea until I realize that I'll be the
only one who can confirm or deny most of what weighs on
him. Jackson breaks us up into watches. She matches up
Finnick, Gale, and me each with a soldier from 13. This
way Peeta will always have access to someone who knows
him more personally. It's not a steady conversation. Peeta
spends a long time considering even small pieces of
information, like where people bought their soap back
home. Gale fills him in on a lot of stuff about 12; Finnick is
the expert on both of Peeta's Games, as he was a mentor
in the first and a tribute in the second. But since Peeta's
greatest confusion centers around me--and not everything
can be explained simply--our exchanges are painful and
loaded, even though we touch on only the most superficial
of details. The color of my dress in 7. My preference for
cheese buns. The name of our math teacher when we were
little. Reconstructing his memory of me is excruciating.
Perhaps it isn't even possible after what Snow did to him.
But it does feel right to help him try.
The next afternoon, we're notified that the whole squad
is needed to stage a fairly complicated propo. Peeta's
been right about one thing: Coin and Plutarch are unhappy
with the quality of footage they're getting from the Star
Squad. Very dull. Very uninspiring. The obvious response
is that they never let us do anything but playact with our
guns. However, this is not about defending ourselves, it's
about coming up with a usable product. So today, a special
block has been set aside for filming. It even has a couple of
active pods on it. One unleashes a spray of gunfire. The
other nets the invader and traps them for either
interrogation or execution, depending on the captors'
preference. But it's still an unimportant residential block
with nothing of strategic consequence.
The television crew means to provide a sense of
heightened jeopardy by releasing smoke bombs and
adding gunfire sound effects. We suit up in heavy protective
gear, even the crew, as if we're heading into the heart of
battle. Those of us with specialty weapons are allowed to
take them along with our guns. Boggs gives Peeta back his
gun, too, although he makes sure to tell him in a loud voice
that it's only loaded with blanks.
Peeta just shrugs. "I'm not much of a shot anyway." He
seems preoccupied with watching Pollux, to the point
where it's getting a little worrisome, when he finally puzzles
it out and begins to speak with agitation. "You're an Avox,
aren't you? I can tell by the way you swallow. There were
two Avoxes with me in prison. Darius and Lavinia, but the
guards mostly called them the redheads. They'd been our
servants in the Training Center, so they arrested them, too. I
watched them being tortured to death. She was lucky. They
used too much voltage and her heart stopped right off. It
took days to finish him off. Beating, cutting off parts. They
kept asking him questions, but he couldn't speak, he just
made these horrible animal sounds. They didn't want
information, you know? They wanted me to see it."
Peeta looks around at our stunned faces, as if waiting
for a reply. When none is forthcoming, he asks, "Real or not
real?" The lack of response upsets him more. "Real or not
real?!" he demands.
"Real," says Boggs. "At least, to the best of my
knowledge...real."
Peeta sags. "I thought so. There was nothing...shiny
about it." He wanders away from the group, muttering
something about fingers and toes.
I move to Gale, press my forehead into the body armor
where his chest should be, feel his arm tighten around me.
We finally know the name of the girl who we watched the
Capitol abduct from the woods of 12, the fate of the
Peacekeeper friend who tried to keep Gale alive. This is no
time to call up happy moments of remembrance. They lost
their lives because of me. I add them to my personal list of
kills that began in the arena and now includes thousands.
When I look up, I see it has taken Gale differently. His
expression says that there are not enough mountains to
crush, enough cities to destroy. It promises death.
With Peeta's grisly account fresh in our minds, we
crunch through the streets of broken glass until we reach
our target, the block we are to take. It is a real, if small, goal
to accomplish. We gather around Boggs to examine the
Holo projection of the street. The gunfire pod is positioned
about a third of the way down, just above an apartment
awning. We should be able to trigger it with bullets. The net
pod is at the far end, almost the next corner. This will
require someone to set off the body sensor mechanism.
Everyone volunteers except Peeta, who doesn't seem to
know quite what's going on. I don't get picked. I get sent to
Messalla, who dabs some makeup on my face for the
anticipated close-ups.
The squad positions itself under Boggs's direction,
and then we have to wait for Cressida to get the
cameramen in place as well. They're both to our left, with
Castor toward the front and Pollux bringing up the rear so
they'll be sure not to record each other. Messalla sets off a
couple of smoke charges for atmosphere. Since this is
both a mission and a shoot, I'm about to ask who's in
charge, my commander or my director, when Cressida
calls, "Action!"
We slowly proceed down the hazy street, just like one
of our exercises in the Block. Everyone has at least one
section of windows to blow out, but Gale's assigned the
real target. When he hits the pod, we take cover--ducking
into doorways or flattening onto the pretty, light orange and
pink paving stones--as a hail of bullets sweeps back and
forth over our heads. After a while, Boggs orders us
forward.
Cressida stops us before we can rise, since she
needs some close-up shots. We take turns reenacting our
responses. Falling to the ground, grimacing, diving into
alcoves. We know it's supposed to be serious business,
but the whole thing feels a little ridiculous. Especially when
it turns out that I'm not the worst actor in the squad. Not by a
long shot. We're all laughing so hard at Mitchell's attempt to
project his idea of desperation, which involves teeth
grinding and nostrils flaring, that Boggs has to reprimand
us.
"Pull it together, Four-Five-One," he says firmly. But
you can see him suppressing a smile as he's doublechecking
the next pod. Positioning the Holo to find the best
light in the smoky air. Still facing us as his left foot steps
back onto the orange paving stone. Triggering the bomb
that blows off his legs.
20
It's as if in an instant, a painted window shatters,
revealing the ugly world behind it. Laughter changes to
screams, blood stains pastel stones, real smoke darkens
the special effect stuff made for television.
A second explosion seems to split the air and leaves
my ears ringing. But I can't make out where it came from.
I reach Boggs first, try to make sense of the torn flesh,
missing limbs, to find something to stem the red flow from
his body. Homes pushes me aside, wrenching open a firstaid
kit. Boggs clutches my wrist. His face, gray with dying
and ash, seems to be receding. But his next words are an
order. "The Holo."
The Holo. I scramble around, digging through chunks
of tile slick with blood, shuddering when I encounter bits of
warm flesh. Find it rammed into a stairwell with one of
BoggsCatching fire

PART I "THE SPARK"

I clasp the flask between my hands even though the warmth from the tea has long since leached into the frozen air. My muscles are clenched tight against the cold. If a pack of wild dogs were to appear at this moment, the odds of scaling a tree before they attacked are not in my favor. I should get up, move around, and work the stiffness from my limbs. But instead I sit, as motionless as the rock beneath me, while the dawn begins to lighten the woods. I can't fight the sun. I can only watch helplessly as it drags me into a day that I've been dreading for months. By noon they will all be at my new house in the Victor's Village. The reporters, the camera crews, even Effie Trinket, my old escort, will have

made their way to District 12 from the Capitol. I wonder if Effie will still be wearing that silly pink wig, or if she'll be sporting some other unnatural color especially for the Victory Tour. There will be others waiting, too. A staff to cater to my every need on the long train trip. A prep team to beautify me for public appearances. My stylist and friend, Cinna, who designed the gorgeous outfits that first made the audience take notice of me in the Hunger Games. If it were up to me, I would try to forget the Hunger Games entirely. Never speak of them. Pretend they were nothing but a bad dream. But the Victory Tour makes that impossible. Strategically placed almost midway between the annual Games, it is the Capitol's way of keeping the horror fresh and immediate. Not only are we in the districts forced to remember the iron grip of the Capitol's power each year, we are forced to celebrate it. And this year, I am one of the stars
of the show. I will have to travel from district to district, to stand before the cheering crowds who secretly loathe me, to look down into the faces of the families whose children I have killed... The sun persists in rising, so I make myself stand. All my joints complain and my left leg has been asleep for so long that it takes several minutes of pacing to bring the feeling back into it. I've been in the woods three hours, but as I've made no real attempt at hunting, I have nothing to show for it. It doesn't matter for my mother and little sister, Prim, anymore. They can afford to buy butcher meat in town, although none of us likes it any better than fresh game. But my best friend, Gale Hawthorne, and his family will be depending on today's haul and I can't let them down. I start the hour-and-a-half trek it will take to cover our snare line. Back when we were in school, we had time in the afternoons to check the line and hunt and gather and still

get back to trade in town. But now that Gale has gone to work in the coal mines -- and I have nothing to do all day--I've taken over the job. By this time Gale will have clocked in at the

mines, taken the stomach-churning elevator ride into the depths of the earth, and be pounding away at a coal seam. I know what it's like down there. Every year in school, as part of our training, my class had to tour the mines. When I was little, it was just unpleasant. The claustrophobic tunnels, foul air, suffocating darkness on all sides. But after my father and several other miners were killed in an explosion, I could barely force myself onto the elevator. The annual trip became an enormous source of anxiety. Twice I made myself so sick in anticipation of it that my mother kept me home because she thought I had contracted the flu. I
think of Gale, who is only really alive in the woods, with its fresh air and sunlight and clean, flowing water. I don't know how he stands it. Well ... yes, I do. He stands it because it's the way to feed his mother and two younger brothers and sister. And here I am with buckets of money, far more than enough to feed both our families now, and he won't take a single coin. It's even hard for him to let me bring in meat, although he'd surely have kept my mother and Prim supplied if I'd been killed in the Games. I tell him he's doing me a favor, that it drives me nuts to sit around all day. Even so, I never drop off the game while he's at home. Which is easy since he works twelve hours a day. The only time I really get to see Gale now is on Sundays, when we meet up in the woods to hunt together. It's still the best day of the week, but it's not like it used to be before, when we could tell each other anything. The Games have spoiled even that. I keep

hoping that as time passes we'll regain the ease between us, but part of me knows it's futile. There's no going back. I get a good haul from the traps -- eight rabbits, two squirrels, and a beaver that swam into a wire contraption Gale designed himself. He's something of a whiz with snares, rigging them to bent saplings so they pull the kill out of the reach of predators, balancing logs on delicate stick triggers, weaving inescapable baskets to capture fish. As I go along, carefully resetting each snare, I know I can never quite replicate his eye for balance, his instinct for where the prey will cross the path. It's more than experience. It's a natural gift. Like the way I can shoot at an animal in almost complete darkness and still take it down with one arrow. By the time I make it back to the fence that surrounds District 12, the sun is well up. As always, I listen a moment, but there's no telltale hum of electrical current running through the chain
link. There hardly ever is, even though the thing is supposed to be charged full-time. I wriggle through the opening at the bottom of the fence and come up in the Meadow, just a stone's throw from my home. My old home. We still get to keep it since officially it's the designated dwelling of my mother and sister. If I should drop dead right now, they would have to return to it. But at present, they're both

happily installed in the new house in the Victor's Village, and I'm the only one who uses the squat little place where I was raised. To me, it's my real home. I go there now to switch my clothes. Exchange my father's old leather jacket for a fine wool coat that always seems too tight in the shoulders. Leave my soft, worn hunting boots for a pair of expensive machine-made shoes that my mother thinks are more appropriate for someone of my status. I've already

stowed my bow and arrows in a hollow log in the woods. Although time is ticking away, I allow myself a few minutes to sit in the kitchen. It has an abandoned quality with no fire on the hearth, no cloth on the table. I mourn my old life here. We barely scraped by, but I knew where I fit in, I knew what my place was in the tightly interwoven fabric that was our life. I wish I could go back to it because, in retrospect, it seems so secure compared with now, when I am so rich and so famous and so hated by the authorities in the Capitol. A wailing at the back door demands my attention. I open it to find Buttercup, Prim's scruffy old tomcat. He dislikes the new house almost as much as I do and always leaves it when my sister's at school. We've never been particularly fond of each other, but now we have this new bond. I let him in, feed him a chunk of beaver fat, and even rub him between the ears for a bit. "You're hideous, you
know that, right?" I ask him. Buttercup nudges my hand for more petting, but we have to go. "Come on, you." I scoop him up with one hand, grab my game bag with the other, and haul them both out onto the street. The cat springs free and disappears under a bush. The shoes pinch my toes as I crunch along the cinder street. Cutting down alleys and through backyards gets me to Gale's house in minutes. His mother, Hazelle, sees me through the window, where she's bent over the kitchen sink. She dries her hands on her apron and disappears to meet me at the door. I like Hazelle. Respect her. The explosion that killed my father took out her husband as well, leaving her with three boys and a baby due any day. Less than a week after she gave birth, she was out hunting the streets for work. The mines weren't an option, what with a baby to look after, but she managed to get laundry from some of the merchants in town.

At fourteen, Gale, the eldest of the kids, became the main supporter of the family. He was already signed up for tesserae, which entitled them to a meager supply of grain and oil in exchange for his entering his name extra times in the drawing to become a tribute. On top of that, even back then, he was a skilled trapper. But it wasn't enough to keep a family of five without Hazelle working her fingers to the bone on that washboard. In winter her hands got so red and cracked, they bled at the slightest provocation. Still would if it wasn't for a salve my mother concocted. But they are determined, Hazelle and Gale, that the other boys, twelve- year-old Rory and

ten-year-old Vick, and the baby, four-year-old Posy, will never have to sign up for tesserae. Hazelle smiles when she sees the game. She takes the beaver by the tail, feeling its
weight. "He's going to make a nice stew." Unlike Gale, she has no problem with our hunting arrangement. "Good pelt, too," I answer. It's comforting here with Hazelle. Weighing the merits of the game, just as we always have. She pours me a mug of herb tea, which I wrap my chilled fingers around gratefully. "You know, when I get back from the tour, I was thinking I might take Rory out with me sometimes. After school. Teach him to shoot." Hazelle nods. "That'd be good. Gale means to, but he's only got his Sundays, and I think he likes saving those for you." I can't stop the redness that floods my cheeks. It's stupid, of course. Hardly anybody knows me better than Hazelle. Knows the bond I share with Gale. I'm sure plenty of people assumed that we'd eventually get married even if I never gave it any thought. But that was before the Games. Before my fellow tribute, Peeta Mellark, announced he was madly in love with me. Our romance

became a key strategy for our survival in the arena. Only it wasn't just a strategy for Peeta. I'm not sure what it was for me. But I know now it was nothing but painful for Gale. My chest tightens as I think about how, on the Victory Tour, Peeta and I will have to present ourselves as lovers again. I gulp my tea even though it's too hot and push back from the table. "I better get going. Make myself presentable for the cameras." Hazelle hugs me. "Enjoy the food." "Absolutely," I say. My next stop is the Hob, where I've traditionally done the bulk of my trading. Years ago it was a warehouse to store coal, but when it fell into disuse, it became a meeting place for illegal trades and then blossomed into a full-time black market. If it attracts a somewhat criminal element, then I belong here, I guess. Hunting in the woods surrounding District 12 violates at least a dozen laws and is punishable by death. Although they
never mention it, I owe the people who frequent the Hob. Gale told me that Greasy Sae, the old woman who serves up soup, started a collection to sponsor Peeta and me during the Games. It was supposed to be just a Hob thing, but a lot of other people heard about it and chipped in. I don't know exactly how much it was, and the price of any gift in the arena was exorbitant. But for all I know, it made the difference between my life and death. It's still odd to drag open the front door with an empty game bag, with nothing to trade, and instead feel the heavy pocket of coins against my hip. I try to hit as many stalls as possible, spreading out my purchases of coffee, buns, eggs, yarn, and oil. As an afterthought, I buy three bottles of white liquor from a one-armed woman named Ripper, a victim of a mine accident who was smart enough to find a way to stay alive. The liquor isn't for my family. It's for Haymitch,

who acted as mentor for Peeta and me in the Games. He's surly, violent, and drunk most of the time. But he did his job -- more than his job--because for the first time in history, two tributes were allowed to win. So no matter who Haymitch is, I owe him, too. And that's for always. I'm getting the white liquor because a few weeks ago he ran out and there was none for sale and he had a withdrawal, shaking and screaming at terrifying things only he could see. He scared Prim to death and, frankly, it wasn't much fun for me to see him like that, either. Ever since then I've been sort of stockpiling the stuff just in case there's a shortage again. Cray, our Head Peacekeeper, frowns when he sees me with the bottles. He's an older man with a few strands of silver hair combed sideways above his bright red face. "That stuff's too strong for you, girl." He should know. Next to Haymitch, Cray drinks more than anyone I've ever met. "Aw, my
mother uses it in medicines," I say indifferently. "Well, it'd kill just about anything," he says, and slaps down a coin for a bottle. When I reach Greasy Sae's stall, I boost myself up to sit on the counter and order some soup, which looks to be some kind of gourd and bean mixture. A Peacekeeper named Darius comes up and buys a bowl while I'm eating. As law enforcers go, he's one of my favorites. Never really throwing his weight around, usually good for a joke. He's probably in his twenties, but he doesn't seem much older than I do. Something about his smile, his red hair that sticks out every which way, gives him a boyish quality. "Aren't you supposed to be on a train?" he asks me. "They're collecting me at noon," I answer.

"Shouldn't you look better?" he asks in a loud whisper. I can't help smiling at his teasing, in spite of my mood. "Maybe

a ribbon in your hair or something?" He flicks my braid with his hand and I brush him away. "Don't worry. By the time they get through with me I'll be unrecognizable," I say. "Good," he says. "Let's show a little district pride for a change, Miss Everdeen. Hm?" He shakes his head at Greasy Sae in mock disapproval and walks off to join his friends. "I'll want that bowl back," Greasy Sae calls after him, but since she's laughing, she doesn't sound particularly stern. "Gale going to see you off?" she asks me. "No, he wasn't on the list," I say. "I saw him Sunday, though." "Think he'd have made the list. Him being your cousin and all," she says wryly. It's just one more part of the lie the Capitol has concocted. When Peeta and I made it into the final eight in the Hunger Games, they sent reporters to do personal stories about us. When they asked about my friends, everyone directed them to Gale. But it wouldn't do, what with the romance I was playing out in
the arena, to have my best friend be Gale. He was too handsome, too male, and not the least bit willing to smile and play nice for the cameras. We do resemble each other, though, quite a bit. We have that Seam look. Dark straight hair, olive skin, gray eyes. So some genius made him my cousin. I didn't know about it until we were already home, on the platform at the train station, and my mother said, "Your cousins can hardly wait to see you!" Then I turned and saw Gale and Hazelle and all the kids waiting for me, so what could I do but go along? Greasy Sae knows we're not related, but even some of the people who have known us for years seem to have forgotten. "I just can't wait for the whole thing to be over," I whisper. "I know," says Greasy Sae. "But you've got to go through it to get to the end of it. Better not be late." A light snow starts to fall as I make my way to the Victor's Village. It's about a half-mile walk from the square in the

center of town, but it seems like another world entirely. It's a separate community built around a beautiful green, dotted with flowering bushes. There are twelve houses, each large enough to hold ten of the one I was raised in. Nine stand empty, as they always have. The three in use belong to Haymitch, Peeta, and me. The houses inhabited by my family and Peeta give off a warm glow of life. Lit windows, smoke from the chimneys, bunches of brightly colored corn affixed to the front doors as decoration for the upcoming Harvest Festival. However, Haymitch's house, despite the care taken by the grounds-keeper, exudes an air of abandonment and neglect. I brace myself at his front door, knowing it will be foul, then push inside. My nose immediately wrinkles in disgust. Haymitch refuses to let anyone in to clean and does a poor jobekeepers line the
roof across from our former hideout. Shells are launched
into the row of apartments, setting off the chain of
explosions we heard, and the building collapses into rubble
and dust.
Now we cut to a live feed. A reporter stands on the roof
with the Peacekeepers. Behind her, the apartment block
burns. Firefighters try to control the blaze with water hoses.
We are pronounced dead.
"Finally, a bit of luck," says Homes.
I guess he's right. Certainly it's better than having the
Capitol in pursuit of us. But I just keep imagining how this
will be playing back in 13. Where my mother and Prim,
Hazelle and the kids, Annie, Haymitch, and a whole lot of
people from 13 think that they have just seen us die.
"My father. He just lost my sister and now..." says Leeg
1.
We watch as they play the footage over and over.
Revel in their victory, especially over me. Break away to do
a montage of the Mockingjay's rise to rebel power--I think
they've had this part prepared for a while, because it
seems pretty polished--and then go live so a couple of
reporters can discuss my well-deserved violent end. Later,
they promise, Snow will make an official statement. The
screen fades back to a glow.
The rebels made no attempt to break in during the
broadcast, which leads me to believe they think it's true. If
that's so, we really are on our own.
"So, now that we're dead, what's our next move?" asks
Gale."
Isn't it obvious?" No one even knew Peeta had
regained consciousness. I don't know how long he's been
watching, but by the look of misery on his face, long enough
to see what happened on the street. How he went mad,
tried to bash my head in, and hurled Mitchell into the pod.
He painfully pushes himself up to a sitting position and
directs his words to Gale.
"Our next move...is to kill me."
21
That makes two requests for Peeta's death in less than
an hour.
"Don't be ridiculous," says Jackson.
"I just murdered a member of our squad!" shouts
Peeta.
"You pushed him off you. You couldn't have known he
would trigger the net at that exact spot," says Finnick, trying
to calm him.
"Who cares? He's dead, isn't he?" Tears begin to run
down Peeta's face. "I didn't know. I've never seen myself
like that before. Katniss is right. I'm the monster. I'm the
mutt. I'm the one Snow has turned into a weapon!"
"It's not your fault, Peeta," says Finnick.
"You can't take me with you. It's only a matter of time
before I kill someone else." Peeta looks around at our
conflicted faces. "Maybe you think it's kinder to just dump
me somewhere. Let me take my chances. But that's the
same thing as handing me over to the Capitol. Do you think
you'd be doing me a favor by sending me back to Snow?"
Peeta. Back in Snow's hands. Tortured and tormented
until no bits of his former self will ever emerge again.
For some reason, the last stanza to "The Hanging
Tree" starts running through my head. The one where the
man wants his lover dead rather than have her face the evil
that awaits her in the world.
Are you, are you
Coming to the tree
Wear a necklace of rope, side by side with
me.
Strange things did happen here
No stranger would it be
If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.
"I'll kill you before that happens," says Gale. "I
promise."
Peeta hesitates, as if considering the reliability of this
offer, and then shakes his head. "It's no good. What if
you're not there to do it? I want one of those poison pills like
the rest of you have."
Nightlock. There's one pill back at camp, in its special
slot on the sleeve of my Mockingjay suit. But there's another
in the breast pocket of my uniform. Interesting that they
didn't issue one to Peeta. Perhaps Coin thought he might
take it before he had the opportunity to kill me. It's unclear if
Peeta means he'd finish himself off now, to spare us having
to murder him, or only if the Capitol took him prisoner
again. In the state he's in, I expect it would be sooner rather
than later. It would certainly make things easier on the rest
of us. Not to have to shoot him. It would certainly simplify the
problem of dealing with his homicidal episodes.
I don't know if it's the pods, or the fear, or watching
Boggs die, but I feel the arena all around me. It's as if I've
never left, really. Once again I'm battling not only for my own
survival but for Peeta's as well. How satisfying, how
entertaining it would be for Snow to have me kill him. To
have Peeta's death on my conscience for whatever is left of
my life.
"It's not about you," I say. "We're on a mission. And
you're necessary to it." I look to the rest of the group. "Think
we might find some food here?"
Besides the medical kit and cameras, we have nothing
but our uniforms and our weapons.
Half of us stay to guard Peeta or keep an eye out for
Snow's broadcast, while the others hunt for something to
eat. Messalla proves most valuable because he lived in a
near replica of this apartment and knows where people
would be most likely to stash food. Like how there's a
storage space concealed by a mirrored panel in the
bedroom, or how easy it is to pop out the ventilation screen
in the hallway. So even though the kitchen cupboards are
bare, we find over thirty canned goods and several boxes
of cookies.
The hoarding disgusts the soldiers raised in 13. "Isn't
this illegal?" says Leeg 1.
"On the contrary, in the Capitol you'd be considered
stupid not to do it," says Messalla. "Even before the
Quarter Quell, people were starting to stock up on scarce
supplies."
"While others went without," says Leeg 1.
"Right," says Messalla. "That's how it works here."
"Fortunately, or we wouldn't have dinner," says Gale.
"Everybody grab a can."
Some of our company seem reluctant to do this, but it's
as good a method as any. I'm really not in the mood to divvy
up everything into eleven equal parts, factoring in age, body
weight, and physical output. I poke around in the pile, about
to settle on some cod chowder, when Peeta holds out a
can to me. "Here."
I take it, not knowing what to expect. The label reads
Lamb Stew.
I press my lips together at the memories of rain
dripping through stones, my inept attempts at flirting, and
the aroma of my favorite Capitol dish in the chilly air. So
some part of it must still be in his head, too. How happy,
how hungry, how close we were when that picnic basket
arrived outside our cave. "Thanks." I pop open the top. "It
even has dried plums." I bend the lid and use it as a
makeshift spoon, scooping a bit into my mouth. Now this
place tastes like the arena, too.
We're passing around a box of fancy cream-filled
cookies when the beeping starts again. The seal of Panem
lights up on the screen and remains there while the anthem
plays. And then they begin to show images of the dead, just
as they did with the tributes in the arena. They start with the
four faces of our TV crew, followed by Boggs, Gale,
Finnick, Peeta, and me. Except for Boggs, they don't
bother with the soldiers from 13, either because they have
no idea who they are or because they know they won't
mean anything to the audience. Then the man himself
appears, seated at his desk, a flag draped behind him, the
fresh white rose gleaming in his lapel. I think he might have
recently had more work done, because his lips are puffier
than usual. And his prep team really needs to use a lighter
hand with his blush.
Snow congratulates the Peacekeepers on a masterful
job, honors them for ridding the country of the menace
called the Mockingjay. With my death, he predicts a turning
of the tide in the war, since the demoralized rebels have no
one left to follow. And what was I, really? A poor, unstable
girl with a small talent with a bow and arrow. Not a great
thinker, not the mastermind of the rebellion, merely a face
plucked from the rabble because I had caught the nation's
attention with my antics in the Games. But necessary, so
very necessary, because the rebels have no real leader
among them.
Somewhere in District 13, Beetee hits a switch,
because now it's not President Snow but President Coin
who's looking at us. She introduces herself to Panem,
identifies herself as the head of the rebellion, and then
gives my eulogy. Praise for the girl who survived the Seam
and the Hunger Games, then turned a country of slaves into
an army of freedom fighters. "Dead or alive, Katniss
Everdeen will remain the face of this rebellion. If ever you
waver in your resolve, think of the Mockingjay, and in her
you will find the strength you need to rid Panem of its
oppressors."
"I had no idea how much I meant to her," I say, which
brings a laugh from Gale and questioning looks from the
others.
Up comes a heavily doctored photo of me looking
beautiful and fierce with a bunch of flames flickering behind
me. No words. No slogan. My face is all they need now.
Beetee gives the reins back to a very controlled Snow.
I have the feeling the president thought the emergency
channel was impenetrable, and someone will end up dead
tonight because it was breached. "Tomorrow morning,
when we pull Katniss Everdeen's body from the ashes, we
will see exactly who the Mockingjay is. A dead girl who
could save no one, not even herself." Seal, anthem, and
out.
"Except that you won't find her," says Finnick to the
empty screen, voicing what we're all probably thinking. The
grace period will be brief. Once they dig through those
ashes and come up missing eleven bodies, they'll know we
escaped.
"We can get a head start on them at least," I say.
Suddenly, I'm so tired. All I want is to lie down on a nearby
green plush sofa and go to sleep. To cocoon myself in a
comforter made of rabbit fur and goose down. Instead, I pull
out the Holo and insist that Jackson talk me through the
most basic commands--which are really about entering the
coordinates of the nearest map grid intersection--so that I
can at least begin to operate the thing myself. As the Holo
projects our surroundings, I feel my heart sink even further.
We must be moving closer to crucial targets, because the
number of pods has noticeably increased. How can we
possibly move forward into this bouquet of blinking lights
without detection? We can't. And if we can't, we are
trapped like birds in a net. I decide it's best not to adopt
some sort of superior attitude when I'm with these people.
Especially when my eyes keep drifting to that green sofa.
So I say, "Any ideas?"
"Why don't we start by ruling out possibilities," says
Finnick. "The street is not a possibility."
"The rooftops are just as bad as the street," says Leeg
1.
"We still might have a chance to withdraw, go back the
way we came," says Homes. "But that would mean a failed
mission."
A pang of guilt hits me since I've fabricated said
mission. "It was never intended for all of us to go forward.
You just had the misfortune to be with me."
"Well, that's a moot point. We're with you now," says
Jackson. "So, we can't stay put. We can't move up. We
can't move laterally. I think that just leaves one option."
"Underground," says Gale.
Underground. Which I hate. Like mines and tunnels
and 13. Underground, where I dread dying, which is stupid
because even if I die aboveground, the next thing they'll do
is bury me underground anyway.
The Holo can show subterranean as well as streetlevel
pods. I see that when we go underground the clean,
dependable lines of the street plan are interlaced with a
twisting, turning mess of tunnels. The pods look less
numerous, though.
Two doors down, a vertical tube connects our row of
apartments to the tunnels. To reach the tube apartment, we
will need to squeeze through a maintenance shaft that runs
the length of the building. We can enter the shaft through the
back of a closet space on the upper floor.
"Okay, then. Let's make it look like we've never been
here," I say. We erase all signs of our stay. Send the empty
cans down a trash chute, pocket the full ones for later, flip
sofa cushions smeared with blood, wipe traces of gel from
the tiles. There's no fixing the latch on the front door, but we
lock a second bolt, which will at least keep the door from
swinging open on contact.
Finally, there's only Peeta to contend with. He plants
himself on the blue sofa, refusing to budge. "I'm not going.
I'll either disclose your position or hurt someone else."
"Snow's people will find you," says Finnick.
"Then leave me a pill. I'll only take it if I have to," says
Peeta.
"That's not an option. Come along," says Jackson.
"Or you'll what? Shoot me?" asks Peeta.
"We'll knock you out and drag you with us," says
Homes. "Which will both slow us down and endanger us."
"Stop being noble! I don't care if I die!" He turns to me,
pleading now. "Katniss, please. Don't you see, I want to be
out of this?"
The trouble is, I do see. Why can't I just let him go? Slip
him a pill, pull the trigger? Is it because I care too much
about Peeta or too much about letting Snow win? Have I
turned him into a piece in my private Games? That's
despicable, but I'm not sure it's beneath me. If it's true, it
would be kindest to kill Peeta here and now. But for better
or worse, I am not motivated by kindness. "We're wasting
time. Are you coming voluntarily or do we knock you out?"
Peeta buries his face in his hands for a few moments,
then rises to join us.
"Should we free his hands?" asks Leeg 1.
"No!" Peeta growls at her, drawing his cuffs in close to
his body.
"No," I echo. "But I want the key." Jackson passes it
over without a word. I slip it into my pants pocket, where it
clicks against the pearl.
When Homes pries open the small metal door to the
maintenance shaft, we encounter another problem. There's
no way the insect shells will be able to fit through the narrow
passage. Castor and Pollux remove them and detach
emergency backup cameras. Each is the size of a shoe
box and probably works about as well. Messalla can't think
of anywhere better to hide the bulky shells, so we end up
dumping them in the closet. Leaving such an easy trail to
follow frustrates me, but what else can we do?
Even going single file, holding our packs and gear out
to the side, it's a tight fit. We sidestep our way past the first
apartment, and break into the second. In this apartment,
one of the bedrooms has a door marked utility instead of a
bathroom. Behind the door is the room with the entrance to
the tube.
Messalla frowns at the wide circular cover, for a
moment returning to his own fussy world. "It's why no one
ever wants the center unit. Workmen coming and going
whenever and no second bath. But the rent's considerably
cheaper." Then he notices Finnick's amused expression
and adds, "Never mind."
The tube cover's simple to unlatch. A wide ladder with
rubber treads on the steps allows for a swift, easy descent
into the bowels of the city. We gather at the foot of the
ladder, waiting for our eyes to adjust to the dim strips of
lights, breathing in the mixture of chemicals, mildew, and
sewage.
Pollux, pale and sweaty, reaches out and latches on to
Castor's wrist. Like he might fall over if there isn't someone
to steady him.
"My brother worked down here after he became an
Avox," says Castor. Of course. Who else would they get to
maintain these dank, evil-smelling passages mined with
pods? "Took five years before we were able to buy his way
up to ground level. Didn't see the sun once."
Under better conditions, on a day with fewer horrors
and more rest, someone would surely know what to say.
Instead we all stand there for a long time trying to formulate
a response.
Finally, Peeta turns to Pollux. "Well, then you just
became our most valuable asset." Castor laughs and
Pollux manages a smile.
We're halfway down the first tunnel when I realize what
was so remarkable about the exchange. Peeta sounded
like his old self, the one who could always think of the right
thing to say when nobody else could. Ironic, encouraging, a
little funny, but not at anyone's expense. I glance back at
him as he trudges along under his guards, Gale and
Jackson, his eyes fixed on the ground, his shoulders
hunched forward. So dispirited. But for a moment, he was
really here.
Peeta called it right. Pollux turns out to be worth ten
Holos. There is a simple network of wide tunnels that
directly corresponds to the main street plan above,
underlying the major avenues and cross streets. It's called
the Transfer, since small trucks use it to deliver goods
around the city. During the day, its many pods are
deactivated, but at night it's a minefield. However, hundreds
of additional passages, utility shafts, train tracks, and
drainage tubes form a multilevel maze. Pollux knows details
that would lead to disaster for a newcomer, like which
offshoots might require gas masks or have live wires or
rats the size of beavers. He alerts us to the gush of water
that sweeps through the sewers periodically, anticipates
the time the Avoxes will be changing shifts, leads us into
damp, obscure pipes to dodge the nearly silent passage of
cargo trains. Most important, he has knowledge of the
cameras. There aren't many down in this gloomy, misty
place, except in the Transfer. But we keep well out of their
way.
Under Pollux's guidance we make good time--
remarkable time, if you compare it to our aboveground
travel. After about six hours, fatigue takes over. It's three in
the morning, so I figure we still have a few hours before our
bodies are discovered missing, they search through the
rubble of the whole block of apartments in case we tried to
escape through the shafts, and the hunt begins.
When I suggest we rest, no one objects. Pollux finds a
small, warm room humming with machines loaded with
levers and dials. He holds up his fingers to indicate we
must be gone in four hours. Jackson works out a guard
schedule, and, since I'm not on the first shift, I wedge myself
in the tight space between Gale and Leeg 1 and go right to
sleep.
It seems like only minutes later when Jackson shakes
me awake, tells me I'm on watch. It's six o'clock, and in one
hour we must be on our way. Jackson tells me to eat a can
of food and keep an eye on Pollux, who's insisted on being
on guard the entire night. "He can't sleep down here." I drag
myself into a state of relative alertness, eat a can of potato
and bean stew, and sit against the wall facing the door.
Pollux seems wide awake. He's probably been reliving
those five years of imprisonment all night. I get out the Holo
and manage to input our grid coordinates and scan the
tunnels. As expected, more pods are registering the closer
we move toward the center of the Capitol. For a while,
Pollux and I click around on the Holo, seeing what traps lie
where. When my head begins to spin, I hand it over to him
and lean back against the wall. I look down at the sleeping
soldiers, crew, and friends, and I wonder how many of us
will ever see the sun again.
When my eyes fall on Peeta, whose head rests right by
my feet, I see he's awake. I wish I could read what's going
on in his mind, that I could go in and untangle the mess of
lies. Then I settle for something I can accomplish.
"Have you eaten?" I ask. A slight shake of his head
indicates he hasn't. I open a can of chicken and rice soup
and hand it to him, keeping the lid in case he tries to slit his
wrists with it or something. He sits up and tilts the can,
chugging back the soup without really bothering to chew it.
The bottom of the can reflects the lights from the machines,
and I remember something that's been itching at the back
of my mind since yesterday. "Peeta, when you asked about
what happened to Darius and Lavinia, and Boggs told you
it was real, you said you thought so. Because there was
nothing shiny about it. What did you mean?"
"Oh. I don't know exactly how to explain it," he tells me.
"In the beginning, everything was just complete confusion.
Now I can sort certain things out. I think there's a pattern
emerging. The memories they altered with the tracker
jacker venom have this strange quality about them. Like
they're too intense or the images aren't stable. You
remember what it was like when we were stung?"
"Trees shattered. There were giant colored butterflies.
I fell in a pit of orange bubbles." I think about it. "Shiny
orange bubbles."
"Right. But nothing about Darius or Lavinia was like
that. I don't think they'd given me any venom yet," he says.
"Well, that's good, isn't it?" I ask. "If you can separate
the two, then you can figure out what's true."
"Yes. And if I could grow wings, I could fly. Only people
can't grow wings," he says. "Real or not real?"
"Real," I say. "But people don't need wings to survive."
"Mockingjays do." He finishes the soup and returns the
can to me.
In the fluorescent light, the circles under his eyes look
like bruises. "There's still time. You should sleep."
Unresisting, he lies back down, but just stares at the needle
on one of the dials as it twitches from side to side. Slowly,
as I would with a wounded animal, my hand stretches out
and brushes a wave of hair from his forehead. He freezes
at my touch, but doesn't recoil. So I continue to gently
smooth back his hair. It's the first time I have voluntarily
touched him since the last arena.
"You're still trying to protect me. Real or not real," he
whispers.
"Real," I answer. It seems to require more explanation.
"Because that's what you and I do. Protect each other."
After a minute or so, he drifts off to sleep.
Shortly before seven, Pollux and I move among the
others, rousing them. There are the usual yawns and sighs
that accompany waking. But my ears are picking up
something else, too. Almost like a hissing. Perhaps it's only
steam escaping a pipe or the far-off whoosh of one of the
trains....
I hush the group to get a better read on it. There's a
hissing, yes, but it's not one extended sound. More like
multiple exhalations that form words. A single word.
Echoing throughout the tunnels. One word. One name.
Repeated over and over again.
"Katniss."
22
The grace period has ended. Perhaps Snow had them
digging through the night. As soon as the fire died down,
anyway. They found Boggs's remains, briefly felt reassured,
and then, as the hours went by without further trophies,
began to suspect. At some point, they realized that they
had been tricked. And President Snow can't tolerate being
made to look like a fool. It doesn't matter whether they
tracked us to the second apartment or assumed we went
directly underground. They know we are down here now
and they've unleashed something, a pack of mutts
probably, bent on finding me.
"Katniss." I jump at the proximity of the sound. Look
frantically for its source, bow loaded, seeking a target to hit.
"Katniss." Peeta's lips are barely moving, but there's no
doubt, the name came out of him. Just when I thought he
seemed a little better, when I thought he might be inching
his way back to me, here is proof of how deep Snow's
poison went. "Katniss." Peeta's programmed to respond to
the hissing chorus, to join in the hunt. He's beginning to stir.
There's no choice. I position my arrow to penetrate his
brain. He'll barely feel a thing. Suddenly, he's sitting up,
eyes wide in alarm, short of breath. "Katniss!" He whips his
head toward me but doesn't seem to notice my bow, the
waiting arrow. "Katniss! Get out of here!"
I hesitate. His voice is alarmed, but not insane. "Why?
What's making that sound?"
"I don't know. Only that it has to kill you," says Peeta.
"Run! Get out! Go!"
After my own moment of confusion, I conclude I do not
have to shoot him. Relax my bowstring. Take in the anxious
faces around me. "Whatever it is, it's after me. It might be a
good time to split up."
"But we're your guard," says Jackson.
"And your crew," adds Cressida.
"I'm not leaving you," Gale says.
I look at the crew, armed with nothing but cameras and
clipboards. And there's Finnick with two guns and a trident.
I suggest that he give one of his guns to Castor. Eject the
blank cartridge from Peeta's, load it with a real one, and
arm Pollux. Since Gale and I have our bows, we hand our
guns over to Messalla and Cressida. There's no time to
show them anything but how to point and pull the trigger, but
in close quarters, that might be enough. It's better than
being defenseless. Now the only one without a weapon is
Peeta, but anyone whispering my name with a bunch of
mutts doesn't need one anyway.
We leave the room free of everything but our scent.
There's no way to erase that at the moment. I'm guessing
that's how the hissing things are tracking us, because we
haven't left much of a physical trail. The mutts' noses will be
abnormally keen, but possibly the time we spent slogging
through water in drainpipes will help throw them.
Outside the hum of the room, the hissing becomes
more distinct. But it's also possible to get a better sense of
the mutts' location. They're behind us, still a fair distance.
Snow probably had them released underground near the
place where he found Boggs's body. Theoretically, we
should have a good lead on them, although they're certain
to be much faster than we are. My mind wanders to the
wolflike creatures in the first arena, the monkeys in the
Quarter Quell, the monstrosities I've witnessed on television
over the years, and I wonder what form these mutts will
take. Whatever Snow thinks will scare me the most.
Pollux and I have worked out a plan for the next leg of
our journey, and since it heads away from the hissing, I see
no reason to alter it. If we move swiftly, maybe we can
reach Snow's mansion before the mutts reach us. But
there's a sloppiness that comes with speed: the poorly
placed boot that results in a splash, the accidental clang of
a gun against a pipe, even my own commands, issued too
loudly for discretion.
We've covered about three more blocks via an
overflow pipe and a section of neglected train track when
the screams begin. Thick, guttural. Bouncing off the tunnel
walls.
"Avoxes," says Peeta immediately. "That's what
Darius sounded like when they tortured him."
"The mutts must have found them," says Cressida.
"So they're not just after Katniss," says Leeg 1.
"They'll probably kill anyone. It's just that they won't stop
until they get to her," says Gale. After his hours studying
with Beetee, he is most likely right.
And here I am again. With people dying because of
me. Friends, allies, complete strangers, losing their lives for
the Mockingjay. "Let me go on alone. Lead them off. I'll
transfer the Holo to Jackson. The rest of you can finish the
mission."
"No one's going to agree to that!" says Jackson in
exasperation.
"We're wasting time!" says Finnick.
"Listen," Peeta whispers.
The screams have stopped, and in their absence my
name has rebounded, startling in its proximity. It's below as
well as behind us now. "Katniss."
I nudge Pollux on the shoulder and we start to run.
Trouble is, we had planned to descend to a lower level, but
that's out now. When we come to the steps leading down,
Pollux and I are scanning for a possible alternative on the
Holo when I start gagging.
"Masks on!" orders Jackson.
There's no need for masks. Everyone is breathing the
same air. I'm the only one losing my stew because I'm the
only one reacting to the odor. Drifting up from the stairwell.
Cutting through the sewage. Roses. I begin to tremble.
I swerve away from the smell and stumble right out
onto the Transfer. Smooth, pastel-colored tiled streets, just
like the ones above, but bordered by white brick walls
instead of homes. A roadway where delivery vehicles can
drive with ease, without the congestion of the Capitol.
Empty now, of everything but us. I swing up my bow and
blow up the first pod with an explosive arrow, which kills the
nest of flesh-eating rats inside. Then I sprint for the next
intersection, where I know one false step will cause the
ground beneath our feet to disintegrate, feeding us into
something labeled Meat Grinder. I shout a warning to the
others to stay with me. I plan for us to skirt around the
corner and then detonate the Meat Grinder, but another
unmarked pod lies in wait.
It happens silently. I would miss it entirely if Finnick
didn't pull me to a stop. "Katniss!"
I whip back around, arrow poised for flight, but what
can be done? Two of Gale's arrows already lie useless
beside the wide shaft of golden light that radiates from
ceiling to floor. Inside, Messalla is as still as a statue,
poised up on the ball of one foot, head tilted back, held
captive by the beam. I can't tell if he's yelling, although his
mouth is stretched wide. We watch, utterly helpless, as the
flesh melts off his body like candle wax.
"Can't help him!" Peeta starts shoving people forward.
"Can't!" Amazingly, he's the only one still functional enough
to get us moving. I don't know why he's in control, when he
should be flipping out and bashing my brains in, but that
could happen any second. At the pressure of his hand
against my shoulder, I turn away from the grisly thing that
was Messalla; I make my feet go forward, fast, so fast that I
can barely skid to a stop before the next intersection.
A spray of gunfire brings down a shower of plaster. I
jerk my head from side to side, looking for the pod, before I
turn and see the squad of Peacekeepers pounding down
the Transfer toward us. With the Meat Grinder pod blocking
our way, there's nothing to do but fire back. They outnumber
us two to one, but we've still got six original members of the
Star Squad, who aren't trying to run and shoot at the same
time.
Fish in a barrel, I think, as blossoms of red stain their
white uniforms. Three-quarters of them are down and dead
when more begin to pour in from the side of the tunnel, the
same one I flung myself through to get away from the smell,
from the--
Those aren't Peacekeepers.
They are white, four-limbed, about the size of a fullgrown
human, but that's where the comparisons stop.
Naked, with long reptilian tails, arched backs, and heads
that jut forward. They swarm over the Peacekeepers, living
and dead, clamp on to their necks with their mouths and rip
off the helmeted heads. Apparently, having a Capitol
pedigree is as useless here as it was in 13. It seems to
take only seconds before the Peacekeepers are
decapitated. The mutts fall to their bellies and skitter toward
us on all fours.
"This way!" I shout, hugging the wall and making a
sharp right turn to avoid the pod. When everyone's joined
me, I fire into the intersection, and the Meat Grinder
activates. Huge mechanical teeth burst through the street
and chew the tile to dust. That should make it impossible
for the mutts to follow us, but I don't know. The wolf and
monkey mutts I've encountered could leap unbelievably far.
The hissing burns my ears, and the reek of roses
makes the walls spin.
