
Professor Umbridge had noticed too, and what was 
more, she seemed to have worked out a strategy for 
just such an eventuality. Instead of trying to pretend 
she had not noticed Hermione, she got to her feet and 
walked around the front row of desks until they were 
face-to-face, then she bent down and whispered, so 
that the rest of the class could not hear, “What is it 
this time, Miss Granger?” 

“I’ve already read chapter two,” said Hermione. 

“Well then, proceed to chapter three.” 

“I’ve read that too. I’ve read the whole book.” 

Professor Umbridge blinked but recovered her poise 
almost instantly. 



Page | 404Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, then, you should be able to tell me what 
Slinkhard says about counterjinxes in chapter 
fifteen.” 



“He says that counterjinxes are improperly named,” 
said Hermione promptly. “He says ‘counterjinx’ is just 
a name people give their jinxes when they want to 
make them sound more acceptable.” 

Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows, and Harry 
knew she was impressed against her will. 

“But I disagree,” Hermione continued. 

Professor Umbridge’s eyebrows rose a little higher and 
her gaze became distinctly colder. 

“You disagree?” 

“Yes, I do,” said Hermione, who, unlike Umbridge, 
was not whispering, but speaking in a clear, carrying 
voice that had by now attracted the rest of the class’s 
attention. “Mr. Slinkhard doesn’t like jinxes, does he? 
But I think they can be very useful when they’re used 
defensively.” 

“Oh, you do, do you?” said Professor Umbridge, 
forgetting to whisper and straightening up. “Well, I’m 
afraid it is Mr. Slinkhard ’s opinion, and not yours, 
that matters within this classroom, Miss Granger.” 

“But — ” Hermione began. 

“That is enough,” said Professor Umbridge. She 
walked back to the front of the class and stood before 
them, all the jauntiness she had shown at the 
beginning of the lesson gone. “Miss Granger, I am 
going to take five points from Gryffindor House.” 

Page | 405Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was an outbreak of muttering at this. 

“What for?” said Harry angrily. 

“Don’t you get involved!” Hermione whispered 
urgently to him. 

“For disrupting my class with pointless 
interruptions,” said Professor Umbridge smoothly. “I 
am here to teach you using a Ministry-approved 
method that does not include inviting students to give 
their opinions on matters about which they 
understand very little. Your previous teachers in this 
subject may have allowed you more license, but as 
none of them — with the possible exception of 
Professor Quirrell, who did at least appear to have 
restricted himself to age-appropriate subjects — 
would have passed a Ministry inspection — ” 

“Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher,” said Harry 
loudly, “there was just that minor drawback of him 
having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the back of his 
head.” 

This pronouncement was followed by one of the 
loudest silences Harry had ever heard. Then — 

“I think another week’s detentions would do you some 
good, Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge sleekly. 

k k k 



The cut on the back of Harry’s hand had barely 
healed and by the following morning, it was bleeding 
again. He did not complain during the evening’s 
detention; he was determined not to give Umbridge 
the satisfaction; over and over again he wrote I must 



Page | 406Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




not tell lies and not a sound escaped his lips, though 
the cut deepened with every letter. 

The very worst part of this second week’s worth of 
detentions was, just as George had predicted, 
Angelina’s reaction. She cornered him just as he 
arrived at the Gryffindor table for breakfast on 
Tuesday and shouted so loudly that Professor 
McGonagall came sweeping down upon the pair of 
them from the staff table. 

“Miss Johnson, how dare you make such a racket in 
the Great Hall! Five points from Gryffindor!” 

“But Professor — he’s gone and landed himself in 
detention again — ” 

“What’s this, Potter?” said Professor McGonagall 
sharply, rounding on Harry. “Detention? From 
whom?” 

“From Professor Umbridge,” muttered Harry, not 
meeting Professor McGonagall’s beady, square-framed 
eyes. 

“Are you telling me,” she said, lowering her voice so 
that the group of curious Ravenclaws behind them 
could not hear, “that after the warning I gave you last 
Monday you lost your temper in Professor Umbridge’s 
class again?” 

“Yes,” Harry muttered, speaking to the floor. 

“Potter, you must get a grip on yourself! You are 
heading for serious trouble! Another five points from 
Gryffindor!” 



Page | 407Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But — what? Professor, no!” Harry said, furious at 
this injustice. “I’m already being punished by her, 
why do you have to take points as well?” 

“Because detentions do not appear to have any effect 
on you whatsoever!” said Professor McGonagall tartly. 
“No, not another word of complaint, Potter! And as for 
you, Miss Johnson, you will confine your shouting 
matches to the Quidditch pitch in future or risk 
losing the team Captaincy!” 

She strode back toward the staff table. Angelina gave 
Harry a look of deepest disgust and stalked away, 
upon which Harry flung himself onto the bench 
beside Ron, fuming. 

“She’s taken points off Gryffindor because I’m having 
my hand sliced open every night! How is that fair, 
how?” 

“I know, mate,” said Ron sympathetically, tipping 
bacon onto Harry’s plate, “she’s bang out of order.” 

Hermione, however, merely rustled the pages of her 
Daily Prophet and said nothing. 

“You think McGonagall was right, do you?” said Harry 
angrily to the picture of Cornelius Fudge obscuring 
Hermione ’s face. 

“I wish she hadn’t taken points from you, but I think 
she’s right to warn you not to lose your temper with 
Umbridge,” said Hermione’s voice, while Fudge 
gesticulated forcefully from the front page, clearly 
giving some kind of speech. 

Harry did not speak to Hermione all through Charms, 
but when they entered Transfiguration he forgot his 
anger; Professor Umbridge and her clipboard were 

Page | 408Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




sitting in a corner and the sight of her drove the 
memory of breakfast right out of his head. 

“Excellent,” whispered Ron, as they sat down in their 
usual seats. “Let’s see Umbridge get what she 
deserves.” 

Professor McGonagall marched into the room without 
giving the slightest indication that she knew Professor 
Umbridge was there. 

“That will do,” she said and silence fell immediately. 
“Mr. Finnigan, kindly come here and hand back the 
homework — Miss Brown, please take this box of 
mice — don’t be silly, girl, they won’t hurt you — and 
hand one to each student — ” 

“Hem, hem,” said Professor Umbridge, employing the 
same silly little cough she had used to interrupt 
Dumbledore on the first night of term. Professor 
McGonagall ignored her. Seamus handed back 
Harry’s essay; Harry took it without looking at him 
and saw, to his relief, that he had managed an A. 

“Right then, everyone, listen closely — Dean Thomas, 
if you do that to the mouse again I shall put you in 
detention — most of you have now successfully 
vanished your snails and even those who were left 
with a certain amount of shell have the gist of the 
spell. Today we shall be — ” 

“Hem, hem,” said Professor Umbridge. 

“Yes?” said Professor McGonagall, turning round, her 
eyebrows so close together they seemed to form one 
long, severe line. 



Page | 409Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I was just wondering, Professor, whether you 
received my note telling you of the date and time of 
your inspec — ” 

“Obviously I received it, or I would have asked you 
what you are doing in my classroom,” said Professor 
McGonagall, turning her back firmly on Professor 
Umbridge. Many of the students exchanged looks of 
glee. “As I was saying, today we shall be practicing 
the altogether more difficult vanishment of mice. Now, 
the Vanishing Spell — ” 

“Hem, hem.” 

“I wonder,” said Professor McGonagall in cold fury, 
turning on Professor Umbridge, “how you expect to 
gain an idea of my usual teaching methods if you 
continue to interrupt me? You see, I do not generally 
permit people to talk when I am talking.” 

Professor Umbridge looked as though she had just 
been slapped in the face. She did not speak, but 
straightened the parchment on her clipboard and 
began scribbling furiously. Looking supremely 
unconcerned, Professor McGonagall addressed the 
class once more. 

“As I was saying, the Vanishing Spell becomes more 
difficult with the complexity of the animal to be 
vanished. The snail, as an invertebrate, does not 
present much of a challenge; the mouse, as a 
mammal, offers a much greater one. This is not, 
therefore, magic you can accomplish with your mind 
on your dinner. So — you know the incantation, let 
me see what you can do...” 

“How she can lecture me about not losing my temper 
with Umbridge!” Harry said to Ron under his voice, 



Page | 410Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




but he was grinning; his anger with Professor 
McGonagall had quite evaporated. 

Professor Umbridge did not follow Professor 
McGonagall around the class as she had followed 
Professor Trelawney; perhaps she thought that 
Professor McGonagall would not permit it. She did, 
however, take many more notes while she sat in her 
corner, and when Professor McGonagall finally told 
them all to pack away, rose with a grim expression on 
her face. 

“Well, it’s a start,” said Ron, holding up a long, 
wriggling mouse tail and dropping it back into the box 
Lavender was passing around. 

As they filed out of the classroom, Harry saw 
Professor Umbridge approach the teacher’s desk; he 
nudged Ron, who nudged Hermione in turn, and the 
three of them deliberately fell back to eavesdrop. 

“How long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?” 
Professor Umbridge asked. 

“Thirty-nine years this December,” said Professor 
McGonagall brusquely, snapping her bag shut. 

Professor Umbridge made a note. 

“Very well,” she said, “you will receive the results of 
your inspection in ten days’ time.” 

“I can hardly wait,” said Professor McGonagall in a 
coldly indifferent voice, and she strode off toward the 
door. “Hurry up, you three,” she added, sweeping 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione before her. Harry could not 
help giving her a faint smile and could have sworn he 
received one in return. 



Page | 411Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had thought that the next time he would see 
Umbridge would be in his detention that evening, but 
he was wrong. When they walked down the lawns 
toward the forest for Care of Magical Creatures, they 
found her and her clipboard waiting for them beside 
Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

“You do not usually take this class, is that correct?” 
Harry heard her ask as they arrived at the trestle 
table where the group of captive bowtruckles were 
scrabbling around for wood lice like so many living 
twigs. 

“Quite correct,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, hands 
behind her back and bouncing on the balls of her 
feet. “I am a substitute teacher standing in for 
Professor Hagrid.” 

Harry exchanged uneasy looks with Ron and 
Hermione. Malfoy was whispering with Crabbe and 
Goyle; he would surely love this opportunity to tell 
tales on Hagrid to a member of the Ministry. 

“Hmm,” said Professor Umbridge, dropping her voice, 
though Harry could still hear her quite clearly, “I 
wonder — the headmaster seems strangely reluctant 
to give me any information on the matter — can you 
tell me what is causing Professor Hagrid’s very 
extended leave of absence?” 

Harry saw Malfoy look up eagerly. 

“ ’Fraid I can’t,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank 
breezily. “Don’t know anything more about it than 
you do. Got an owl from Dumbledore, would I like a 
couple of weeks teaching work, accepted — that’s as 
much as I know. Well ... shall I get started then?” 



Page | 412Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, please do,” said Professor Umbridge, scribbling 
upon her clipboard. 

Umbridge took a different tack in this class and 
wandered among the students, questioning them on 
magical creatures. Most people were able to answer 
well and Harry’s spirits lifted somewhat; at least the 
class was not letting Hagrid down. 

“Overall,” said Professor Umbridge, returning to 
Professor Grubbly-Plank’s side after a lengthy 
interrogation of Dean Thomas, “how do you, as a 
temporary member of staff — an objective outsider, I 
suppose you might say — how do you find Hogwarts? 
Do you feel you receive enough support from the 
school management?” 

“Oh, yes, Dumbledore’s excellent,” said Professor 
Grubbly-Plank heartily. “No, I’m very happy with the 
way things are run, very happy indeed.” 

Looking politely incredulous, Umbridge made a tiny 
note on her clipboard and went on, “And what are you 
planning to cover with this class this year — 
assuming, of course, that Professor Hagrid does not 
return?” 

“Oh, I’ll take them through the creatures that most 
often come up in O.W.L.,” said Professor Grubbly- 
Plank. “Not much left to do — they’ve studied 
unicorns and nifflers, I thought we’d cover porlocks 
and kneazles, make sure they can recognize crups 
and knarls, you know...” 

“Well, you seem to know what you’re doing, at any 
rate,” said Professor Umbridge, making a very obvious 
tick on her clipboard. Harry did not like the emphasis 
she put on “you” and liked it even less when she put 



Page | 413Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




her next question to Goyle: “Now, I hear there have 
been injuries in this class?” 

Goyle gave a stupid grin. Malfoy hastened to answer 
the question. 

“That was me,” he said. “I was slashed by a 
hippogriff.” 

“A hippogriff?” said Professor Umbridge, now 
scribbling frantically. 

“Only because he was too stupid to listen to what 
Hagrid told him to do,” said Harry angrily. 

Both Ron and Hermione groaned. Professor Umbridge 
turned her head slowly in Harry’s direction. 

“Another night’s detention, I think,” she said softly. 
“Well, thank you very much, Professor Grubbly-Plank, 
I think that’s all I need here. You will be receiving the 
results of your inspection within ten days.” 

“Jolly good,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, and 
Professor Umbridge set off back across the lawn to 
the castle. 



ie ie ie 



It was nearly midnight when Harry left Umbridge’s 
office that night, his hand now bleeding so severely 
that it was staining the scarf he had wrapped around 
it. He expected the common room to be empty when 
he returned, but Ron and Hermione had sat up 
waiting for him. He was pleased to see them, 
especially as Hermione was disposed to be 
sympathetic rather than critical. 



Page | 414Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Here,” she said anxiously, pushing a small bowl of 
yellow liquid toward him, “soak your hand in that, it’s 
a solution of strained and pickled murtlap tentacles, 
it should help.” 

Harry placed his bleeding, aching hand into the bowl 
and experienced a wonderful feeling of relief. 
Crookshanks curled around his legs, purring loudly, 
and then leapt into his lap and settled down. 

“Thanks,” he said gratefully, scratching behind 
Crookshanks ’s ears with his left hand. 

“I still reckon you should complain about this,” said 
Ron in a low voice. 

“No,” said Harry flatly. 

“McGonagall would go nuts if she knew — ” 

“Yeah, she probably would,” said Harry. “And how 
long d’you reckon it’d take Umbridge to pass another 
Decree saying anyone who complains about the High 
Inquisitor gets sacked immediately?” 

Ron opened his mouth to retort but nothing came out 
and after a moment he closed it again in a defeated 
sort of way. 

“She’s an awful woman,” said Hermione in a small 
voice. “Awful. You know, I was just saying to Ron 
when you came in ... we’ve got to do something about 
her.” " 

“I suggested poison,” said Ron grimly. 

“No ... I mean, something about what a dreadful 
teacher she is, and how we’re not going to learn any 
defense from her at all,” said Hermione. 

Page | 415Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, what can we do about that?” said Ron, 
yawning. “ ’S too late, isn’t it? She got the job, she’s 
here to stay, Fudge’ll make sure of that.” 

“Well,” said Hermione tentatively. “You know, I was 
thinking today...” She shot a slightly nervous look at 
Harry and then plunged on, “I was thinking that — 
maybe the time’s come when we should just — just 
do it ourselves.” 

“Do what ourselves?” said Harry suspiciously, still 
floating his hand in the essence of murtlap tentacles. 

“Well — learn Defense Against the Dark Arts 
ourselves,” said Hermione. 

“Come off it,” groaned Ron. “You want us to do extra 
work? D’you realize Harry and I are behind on 
homework again and it’s only the second week?” 

“But this is much more important than homework!” 
said Hermione. 

Harry and Ron goggled at her. 

“I didn’t think there was anything in the universe 
more important than homework,” said Ron. 

“Don’t be silly, of course there is!” said Hermione, and 
Harry saw, with an ominous feeling, that her face was 
suddenly alight with the kind of fervor that S.P.E.W. 
usually inspired in her. “It’s about preparing 
ourselves, like Harry said in Umbridge’s first lesson, 
for what’s waiting out there. It’s about making sure 
we really can defend ourselves. If we don’t learn 
anything for a whole year — ” 

“We can’t do much by ourselves,” said Ron in a 
defeated voice. “I mean, all right, we can go and look 

Page | 416Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




jinxes up in the library and try and practice them, I 
suppose — ” 

“No, I agree, we’ve gone past the stage where we can 
just learn things out of books,” said Hermione. “We 
need a teacher, a proper one, who can show us how 
to use the spells and correct us if we’re going wrong.” 

“If you’re talking about Lupin ...” Harry began. 

“No, no, I’m not talking about Lupin,” said Hermione. 
“He’s too busy with the Order and anyway, the most 
we could see him is during Hogsmeade weekends and 
that’s not nearly often enough.” 

“Who, then?” said Harry, frowning at her. 

Hermione heaved a very deep sigh. 

“Isn’t it obvious?” she said. “I’m talking about you, 
Harry.” 

There was a moment’s silence. A light night breeze 
rattled the windowpanes behind Ron and the fire 
guttered. 

“About me what?” said Harry. 

“I’m talking about you teaching us Defense Against 
the Dark Arts.” 

Harry stared at her. Then he turned to Ron, ready to 
exchange the exasperated looks they sometimes 
shared when Hermione elaborated on far-fetched 
schemes like S.P.E.W. To Harry’s consternation, 
however, Ron did not look exasperated. He was 
frowning slightly, apparently thinking. Then he said, 
“That’s an idea.” 



Page | 417Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s an idea?” said Harry. 

“You,” said Ron. “Teaching us to do it.” 

“But ...” 

Harry was grinning now, sure the pair of them were 
pulling his leg. 

“But I’m not a teacher, I can’t — ” 

“Harry, you’re the best in the year at Defense Against 
the Dark Arts,” said Hermione. 

“Me?” said Harry, now grinning more broadly than 
ever. “No I’m not, you’ve beaten me in every test — ” 

“Actually, I haven’t,” said Hermione coolly. “You beat 
me in our third year — the only year we both sat the 
test and had a teacher who actually knew the subject 
But I’m not talking about test results, Harry. Look 
what you’ve done\” 

“How d’you mean?” 

“You know what, I’m not sure I want someone this 
stupid teaching me,” Ron said to Hermione, smirking 
slightly. He turned to Harry. “Let’s think,” he said, 
pulling a face like Goyle concentrating. “Uh . . . first 
year — you saved the Stone from You-Know-Who.” 

“But that was luck,” said Harry, “that wasn’t skill — ” 

“Second year,” Ron interrupted, “you killed the 
basilisk and destroyed Riddle.” 

“Yeah, but if Fawkes hadn’t turned up I — ” 



Page | 418Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Third year,” said Ron, louder still, “you fought off 
about a hundred dementors at once — ” 

“You know that was a fluke, if the Time-Turner hadn’t 
?? 



“Last year,” Ron said, almost shouting now, “you 
fought off You-Know-Who again — ” 

“Listen to me!” said Harry, almost angrily, because 
Ron and Hermione were both smirking now. “Just 
listen to me, all right? It sounds great when you say it 
like that, but all that stuff was luck — I didn’t know 
what I was doing half the time, I didn’t plan any of it, 

I just did whatever I could think of, and I nearly 
always had help — ” 

Ron and Hermione were still smirking and Harry felt 
his temper rise; he wasn’t even sure why he was 
feeling so angry. 

“Don’t sit there grinning like you know better than I 
do, I was there, wasn’t I?” he said heatedly. “I know 
what went on, all right? And I didn’t get through any 
of that because I was brilliant at Defense Against the 
Dark Arts, I got through it all because — because 
help came at the right time, or because I guessed 
right — but I just blundered through it all, I didn’t 
have a clue what I was doing — STOP LAUGHING!” 

The bowl of murtlap essence fell to the floor and 
smashed. He became aware that he was on his feet, 
though he couldn’t remember standing up. 
Crookshanks streaked away under a sofa; Ron and 
Hermione ’s smiles had vanished. 

“ You don’t know what it’s likel You — neither of you 
— you’ve never had to face him, have you? You think 
it’s just memorizing a bunch of spells and throwing 

Page | 419Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




them at him, like you’re in class or something? The 
whole time you know there’s nothing between you 
and dying except your own — your own brain or guts 
or whatever — like you can think straight when you 
know you’re about a second from being murdered, or 
tortured, or watching your friends die — they’ve never 
taught us that in their classes, what it’s like to deal 
with things like that — and you two sit there acting 
like I’m a clever little boy to be standing here, alive, 
like Diggory was stupid, like he messed up — you just 
don’t get it, that could just as easily have been me, it 
would have been if Voldemort hadn’t needed me — ” 

“We weren’t saying anything like that, mate,” said 
Ron, looking aghast. “We weren’t having a go at 
Diggory, we didn’t — you’ve got the wrong end of the 



He looked helplessly at Hermione, whose face was 
stricken. 

“Harry,” she said timidly, “don’t you see? This ... this 
is exactly why we need you... We need to know what 
it’s r-really like ... facing him ... facing V-Voldemort.” 

It was the first time she had ever said Voldemort’s 
name, and it was this, more than anything else, that 
calmed Harry. Still breathing hard, he sank back into 
his chair, becoming aware as he did so that his hand 
was throbbing horribly again. He wished he had not 
smashed the bowl of murtlap essence. 

“Well ... think about it,” said Hermione quietly. 
“Please?” 

Harry could not think of anything to say. He was 
feeling ashamed of his outburst already. He nodded, 
hardly aware of what he was agreeing to. 



Page | 420Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione stood up. 

“Well, I’m off to bed,” she said in a voice that was 
clearly as natural as she could make it. “Erm ... 
’night.” 

Ron had gotten to his feet too. 

“Coming?” he said awkwardly to Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “In ... in a minute. I’ll just clear 
this up.” 

He indicated the smashed bowl on the floor. Ron 
nodded and left. 

“Reparo,” Harry muttered, pointing his wand at the 
broken pieces of china. They flew back together, good 
as new, but there was no returning the murtlap 
essence to the bowl. 

He was suddenly so tired that he was tempted to sink 
back into his armchair and sleep there, but instead 
he got to his feet and followed Ron upstairs. His 
restless night was punctuated once more by dreams 
of long corridors and locked doors, and he awoke next 
day with his scar prickling again. 



Page | 421Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 







IN THE HOG’S HEAD 

Hermione made no mention of Harry giving Defense 
Against the Dark Arts lessons for two whole weeks 
after her original suggestion. Harry’s detentions with 
Umbridge were finally over (he doubted whether the 
words now etched on the back of his hand would ever 
fade entirely); Ron had had four more Quidditch 
practices and not been shouted at during the last 
two; and all three of them had managed to vanish 
their mice in Transfiguration (Hermione had actually 
progressed to vanishing kittens), before the subject 
was broached again, on a wild, blustery evening at 
the end of September, when the three of them were 
sitting in the library, looking up potion ingredients for 
Snape. 

“I was wondering,” Hermione said suddenly, “whether 
you’d thought any more about Defense Against the 
Dark Arts, Harry.” 

“ ’Course I have,” said Harry grumpily. “Can’t forget it, 
can we, with that hag teaching us — ” 



Page | 422Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“I meant the idea Ron and I had” — Ron cast her an 
alarmed, threatening kind of look; she frowned at him 
— “oh, all right, the idea / had, then — about you 
teaching us.” 

Harry did not answer at once. He pretended to be 
perusing a page of Asiatic Anti-Venoms, because he 
did not want to say what was in his mind. 

The fact was that he had given the matter a great deal 
of thought over the past fortnight. Sometimes it 
seemed an insane idea, just as it had on the night 
Hermione had proposed it, but at others, he had 
found himself thinking about the spells that had 
served him best in his various encounters with Dark 
creatures and Death Eaters — found himself, in fact, 
subconsciously planning lessons... 

“Well,” he said slowly, when he could not pretend to 
find Asiatic anti-venoms interesting much longer, 
“yeah, I — I’ve thought about it a bit.” 

“And?” said Hermione eagerly. 

“I dunno,” said Harry, playing for time. He looked up 
at Ron. 

“I thought it was a good idea from the start,” said 
Ron, who seemed keener to join in this conversation 
now that he was sure that Harry was not going to 
start shouting again. 

Harry shifted uncomfortably in his chair. 

“You did listen to what I said about a load of it being 
luck, didn’t you?” 

“Yes, Harry,” said Hermione gently, “but all the same, 
there’s no point pretending that you’re not good at 

Page | 423Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Defense Against the Dark Arts, because you are. You 
were the only person last year who could throw off the 
Imperius Curse completely, you can produce a 
Patronus, you can do all sorts of stuff that full-grown 
wizards can’t, Viktor always said — ” 

Ron looked around at her so fast he appeared to crick 
his neck; rubbing it, he said, “Yeah? What did Vicky 
say?” 

“Ho ho,” said Hermione in a bored voice. “He said 
Harry knew how to do stuff even he didn’t, and he 
was in the final year at Durmstrang.” 

Ron was looking at Hermione suspiciously. 

“You’re not still in contact with him, are you?” 

“So what if I am?” said Hermione coolly, though her 
face was a little pink. “I can have a pen pal if I — ” 

“He didn’t only want to be your pen pal,” said Ron 
accusingly. 

Hermione shook her head exasperatedly and, ignoring 
Ron, who was continuing to watch her, said to Harry, 
“Well, what do you think? Will you teach us?” 

“Just you and Ron, yeah?” 

“Well,” said Hermione, now looking a mite anxious 
again. “Well ... now, don’t fly off the handle again, 
Harry, please... But I really think you ought to teach 
anyone who wants to learn. I mean, we’re talking 
about defending ourselves against V-Voldemort — oh, 
don’t be pathetic, Ron — it doesn’t seem fair if we 
don’t offer the chance to other people.” 



Page | 424Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry considered this for a moment, then said, “Yeah, 
but I doubt anyone except you two would want to be 
taught by me. I’m a nutter, remember?” 

“Well, I think you might be surprised how many 
people would be interested in hearing what you’ve got 
to say,” said Hermione seriously. “Look,” she leaned 
toward him; Ron, who was still watching her with a 
frown on his face, leaned forward to listen too, “you 
know the first weekend in October’s a Hogsmeade 
weekend? How would it be if we tell anyone who’s 
interested to meet us in the village and we can talk it 
over?” 

“Why do we have to do it outside school?” said Ron. 

“Because,” said Hermione, returning to the diagram of 
the Chinese Chomping Cabbage she was copying, “I 
don’t think Umbridge would be very happy if she 
found out what we were up to.” 

Harry had been looking forward to the weekend trip 
into Hogsmeade, but there was one thing worrying 
him. Sirius had maintained a stony silence since he 
had appeared in the fire at the beginning of 
September; Harry knew they had made him angry by 
saying that they did not want him to come — but he 
still worried from time to time that Sirius might throw 
caution to the winds and turn up anyway. What were 
they going to do if the great black dog came bounding 
up the street toward them in Hogsmeade, perhaps 
under the nose of Draco Malfoy? 

“Well, you can’t blame him for wanting to get out and 
about,” said Ron, when Harry discussed his fears 
with him and Hermione. “I mean, he’s been on the 
run for over two years, hasn’t he, and I know that 
can’t have been a laugh, but at least he was free, 



Page | 425Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wasn’t he? And now he’s just shut up all the time 
with that lunatic elf.” 

Hermione scowled at Ron, but otherwise ignored the 
slight on Kreacher. 

“The trouble is,” she said to Harry, “until V-Voldemort 
— oh for heaven’s sake, Ron — comes out into the 
open, Sirius is going to have to stay hidden, isn’t he? I 
mean, the stupid Ministry isn’t going to realize Sirius 
is innocent until they accept that Dumbledore’s been 
telling the truth about him all along. And once the 
fools start catching real Death Eaters again it’ll be 
obvious Sirius isn’t one ... I mean, he hasn’t got the 
Mark, for one thing.” 

“I don’t reckon he’d be stupid enough to turn up,” 
said Ron bracingly. “Dumbledore’d go mad if he did 
and Sirius listens to Dumbledore even if he doesn’t 
like what he hears.” 

When Harry continued to look worried, Hermione 
said, “Listen, Ron and I have been sounding out 
people who we thought might want to learn some 
proper Defense Against the Dark Arts, and there are a 
couple who seem interested. We’ve told them to meet 
us in Hogsmeade.” 

“Right,” said Harry vaguely, his mind still on Sirius. 

“Don’t worry, Harry,” Hermione said quietly. “You’ve 
got enough on your plate without Sirius too.” 

She was quite right, of course; he was barely keeping 
up with his homework, though he was doing much 
better now that he was no longer spending every 
