
There was no arguing with this, as Ron chose that 
moment to say loudly, “If Scabbers hadn’t just been 
eaten, he could have had some of those Fudge Flies. 
He used to really like them — ” 

Hermione burst into tears. Before Harry could say or 
do anything, she tucked the enormous book under 
her arm, and, still sobbing, ran toward the staircase 
to the girls’ dormitories and out of sight. 

“Can’t you give her a break?” Harry asked Ron 
quietly. 

“No,” said Ron flatly. “If she just acted like she was 
sorry — but she’ll never admit she’s wrong, Hermione. 
She’s still acting like Scabbers has gone on vacation 
or something.” 

The Gryffindor party ended only when Professor 
McGonagall turned up in her tartan dressing gown 
and hair net at one in the morning, to insist that they 
all go to bed. Harry and Ron climbed the stairs to 
their dormitory, still discussing the match. At last, 
exhausted, Harry climbed into bed, twitched the 
hangings of his four-poster shut to block out a ray of 



Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




moonlight, lay back, and felt himself almost instantly 
drifting off to sleep. ... 

He had a very strange dream. He was walking 
through a forest, his Firebolt over his shoulder, 
following something silvery- white. It was winding its 
way through the trees ahead, and he could only catch 
glimpses of it between the leaves. Anxious to catch up 
with it, he sped up, but as he moved faster, so did his 
quarry. Harry broke into a run, and ahead he heard 
hooves gathering speed. Now he was running flat out, 
and ahead he could hear galloping. Then he turned a 
corner into a clearing and — 

“AAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGHHHHH 
! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!” 

Harry woke as suddenly as though he’d been hit in 
the face. Disoriented in the total darkness, he 
fumbled with his hangings — he could hear 
movements around him, and Seamus Finnigan’s voice 
from the other side of the room: “What’s going on?” 

Harry thought he heard the dormitory door slam. At 
last finding the divide in his curtains, he ripped them 
back, and at the same moment, Dean Thomas lit his 
lamp. 

Ron was sitting up in bed, the hangings torn from one 
side, a look of utmost terror on his face. 

“Black! Sirius Black! With a knife!” 

“What?” 

“Here! Just now! Slashed the curtains! Woke me up!” 
“You sure you weren’t dreaming, Ron?” said Dean. 



Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Look at the curtains! I tell you, he was here!” 

They all scrambled out of bed; Harry reached the 
dormitory door first, and they sprinted back down the 
staircase. Doors opened behind them, and sleepy 
voices called after them. 

“Who shouted?” 

“What ’re you doing?” 

The common room was lit with the glow of the dying 
fire, still littered with the debris from the party. It was 
deserted. 

“Are you sure you weren’t dreaming, Ron?” 

“I’m telling you, I saw him!” 

“What’s all the noise?” 

“Professor McGonagall told us to go to bed!” 

A few of the girls had come down their staircase, 
pulling on dressing gowns and yawning. Boys, too, 
were reappearing. 

“Excellent, are we carrying on?” said Fred Weasley 
brightly. 

“Everyone back upstairs!” said Percy, 
hurrying into the common room and pinning his 
Head Boy badge to his pajamas as he spoke. 

“Perce — Sirius Black!” said Ron faintly. “In our 
dormitory! With a knife! Woke me up!” 

The common room went very still. 



Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Nonsense!” said Percy, looking startled. “You had too 
much to eat, Ron — had a nightmare — ” 



“I’m telling you — ” 

“Now, really, enough’s enough!” 

Professor McGonagall was back. She slammed the 
portrait behind her as she entered the common room 
and stared furiously around. 

“I am delighted that Gryffindor won the match, but 
this is getting ridiculous! Percy, I expected better of 
you!” 

“I certainly didn’t authorize this, Professor!” said 
Percy, puffing himself up indignantly. “I was just 
telling them all to get back to bed! My brother Ron 
here had a nightmare — ” 

“IT WASNT A NIGHTMARE!” Ron yelled. 

“PROFESSOR, I WOKE UP, AND SIRIUS BLACK WAS 
STANDING OVER ME, HOLDING A KNIFE!” 

Professor McGonagall stared at him. 

“Don’t be ridiculous, Weasley, how could he possibly 
have gotten through the portrait hole?” 

“Ask him!” said Ron, pointing a shaking finger at the 
back of Sir Cadogan’s picture. “Ask him if he saw — ” 

Glaring suspiciously at Ron, Professor McGonagall 
pushed the portrait back open and went outside. The 
whole common room listened with bated breath. 

“Sir Cadogan, did you just let a man enter Gryffindor 
Tower?” 

Page | 298 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Certainly, good lady!” cried Sir Cadogan. 

There was a stunned silence, both inside and outside 
the common room. 

“You — you did?” said Professor McGonagall. “But — 
but the password!” 

“He had ’em!” said Sir Cadogan proudly. “Had the 
whole week’s, my lady! Read ’em off a little piece of 
paper!” 

Professor McGonagall pulled herself back through the 
portrait hole to face the stunned crowd. She was 
white as chalk. 

“Which person,” she said, her voice shaking, “which 
abysmally foolish person wrote down this week’s 
passwords and left them lying around?” 

There was utter silence, broken by the smallest of 
terrified squeaks. Neville Longbottom, trembling from 
head to fluffy-slippered toes, raised his hand slowly 
into the air. 



Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






SNAPE’S GRUDGE 

No one in Gryffindor Tower slept that night. They 
knew that the castle was being searched again, and 
the whole House stayed awake in the common room, 
waiting to hear whether Black had been caught. 
Professor McGonagall came back at dawn, to tell 
them that he had again escaped. 

Throughout the day, everywhere they went they saw 
signs of tighter security; Professor Flitwick could be 
seen teaching the front doors to recognize a large 
picture of Sirius Black; Filch was suddenly bustling 
up and down the corridors, boarding up everything 
from tiny cracks in the walls to mouse holes. Sir 
Cadogan had been fired. His portrait had been taken 
back to its lonely landing on the seventh floor, and 
the Fat Lady was back. She had been expertly 
restored, but was still extremely nervous, and had 
agreed to return to her job only on condition that she 
was given extra protection. A bunch of surly security 
trolls had been hired to guard her. They paced the 
corridor in a menacing group, talking in grunts and 
comparing the size of their clubs. 

Page | 300 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Harry couldn’t help noticing that the statue of the 
one-eyed witch on the third floor remained unguarded 
and unblocked. It seemed that Fred and George had 
been right in thinking that they — and now Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione — were the only ones who knew 
about the hidden passageway within it. 

“D’you reckon we should tell someone?” Harry asked 
Ron. 

“We know he’s not coming in through Honey duke’s,” 
said Ron dismissively “We’d’ve heard if the shop had 
been broken into.” 

Harry was glad Ron took this view. If the one-eyed 
witch was boarded up too, he would never be able to 
go into Hogsmeade again. 

Ron had become an instant celebrity. For the first 
time in his life, people were paying more attention to 
him than to Harry, and it was clear that Ron was 
rather enjoying the experience. Though still severely 
shaken by the night’s events, he was happy to tell 
anyone who asked what had happened, with a wealth 
of detail. 

"... I was asleep, and I heard this ripping noise, and I 
thought it was in my dream, you know? But then 
there was this draft ... I woke up and one side of the 
hangings on my bed had been pulled down. ... I rolled 
over . . . and I saw him standing over me . . . like a 
skeleton, with loads of filthy hair . . . holding this great 
long knife, must’ve been twelve inches ... and he 
looked at me, and I looked at him, and then I yelled, 
and he scampered. 

“Why, though?” Ron added to Harry as the group of 
second-year girls who had been listening to his 
chilling tale departed. “Why did he run?” 

Page | 301 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had been wondering the same thing. Why had 
Black, having got the wrong bed, not silenced Ron 
and proceeded to Harry? Black had proved twelve 
years ago that he didn’t mind murdering innocent 
people, and this time he had been facing five 
unarmed boys, four of whom were asleep. 

“He must’ve known he’d have a job getting back out of 
the castle once you’d yelled and woken people up,” 
said Harry thoughtfully. “He’d’ve had to kill the whole 
House to get back through the portrait hole . . . then 
he would’ve met the teachers. ...” 

Neville was in total disgrace. Professor McGonagall 
was so furious with him she had banned him from all 
future Hogsmeade visits, given him a detention, and 
forbidden anyone to give him the password into the 
tower. Poor Neville was forced to wait outside the 
common room every night for somebody to let him in, 
while the security trolls leered unpleasantly at him. 
None of these punishments, however, came close to 
matching the one his grandmother had in store for 
him. Two days after Black’s break-in, she sent Neville 
the very worst thing a Hogwarts student could receive 
over breakfast — a Howler. 

The school owls swooped into the Great Hall carrying 
the mail as usual, and Neville choked as a huge barn 
owl landed in front of him, a scarlet envelope clutched 
in its beak. Harry and Ron, who were sitting opposite 
him, recognized the letter as a Howler at once — Ron 
had got one from his mother the year before. 

“Run for it, Neville,” Ron advised. 

Neville didn’t need telling twice. He seized the 
envelope, and holding it before him like a bomb, 
sprinted out of the hall, while the Slytherin table 
exploded with laughter at the sight of him. They 

Page | 302 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




heard the Howler go off in the entrance hall — 
Neville’s grandmother’s voice, magically magnified to 
a hundred times its usual volume, shrieking about 
how he had brought shame on the whole family. 

Harry was too busy feeling sorry for Neville to notice 
immediately that he had a letter too. Hedwig got his 
attention by nipping him sharply on the wrist. 

“Ouch! Oh — thanks, Hedwig.” 

Harry tore open the envelope while Hedwig helped 
herself to some of Neville’s cornflakes. The note inside 
said: 

Dear Harry and Ron, 

How about having tea with me this afternoon ’round 
six? 



I’ll come and collect you from the castle. 

WAIT FOR ME IN THE ENTRANCE HALL; 

YOU’RE NOT ALLOWED OUT ON YOUR OWN 
Cheers, 

Hagrid 

“He probably wants to hear all about Black!” said 
Ron. 

So at six o’clock that afternoon, Harry and Ron left 
Gryffindor Tower, passed the security trolls at a run, 
and headed down to the entrance hall. 

Hagrid was already waiting for them. 



Page | 303 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“All right, Hagrid!” said Ron. “S’pose you want to hear 
about Saturday night, do you?” 

“I’ve already heard all abou’ it,” said Hagrid, opening 
the front doors and leading them outside. 

“Oh,” said Ron, looking slightly put out. 

The first thing they saw on entering Hagrid’s cabin 
was Buckbeak, who was stretched out on top of 
Hagrid’s patchwork quilt, his enormous wings folded 
tight to his body, enjoying a large plate of dead 
ferrets. Averting his eyes from this unpleasant sight, 
Harry saw a gigantic, hairy brown suit and a very 
horrible yellow-and-orange tie hanging from the top of 
Hagrid’s wardrobe door. 

“What are they for, Hagrid?” said Harry. 

“Buckbeak’s case against the Committee fer the 
Disposal o’ Dangerous Creatures,” said Hagrid. “This 
Friday. Him an’ me’ll be goin’ down ter London 
together. I’ve booked two beds on the Knight Bus. ...” 

Harry felt a nasty pang of guilt. He had completely 
forgotten that Buckbeak’s trial was so near, and 
judging by the uneasy look on Ron’s face, he had too. 
They had also forgotten their promise about helping 
him prepare Buckbeak’s defense; the arrival of the 
Firebolt had driven it clean out of their minds. 

Hagrid poured them tea and offered them a plate of 
Bath buns, but they knew better than to accept; they 
had had too much experience with Hagrid’s cooking. 

“I got somethin’ ter discuss with you two,” said 
Hagrid, sitting himself between them and looking 
uncharacteristically serious. 



Page | 304 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” said Harry. 

“Hermione,” said Hagrid. 

“What about her?” said Ron. 

“She’s in a righ’ state, that’s what. She’s bin cornin’ 
down ter visit me a lot since Chris ’mas. Bin feelin’ 
lonely. Firs’ yeh weren’ talking to her because o’ the 
Firebolt, now yer not talkin’ to her because her cat — ” 

“ — ate Scabbers!” Ron interjected angrily. 

“Because her cat acted like all cats do,” Hagrid 
continued doggedly. “She’s cried a fair few times, yeh 
know. Goin’ through a rough time at the moment. 
Bitten off more’n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the 
work she’s tryin’ ter do. Still found time ter help me 
with Buckbeak’s case, mind. ... She’s found some 
really good stuff fer me ... reckon he’ll stand a good 
chance now. ...” 

“Hagrid, we should’ve helped as well — sorry — ” 

Harry began awkwardly. 

“I’m not blamin’ yeh!” said Hagrid, waving Harry’s 
apology aside. “Gawd knows yeh’ve had enough ter be 
gettin’ on with. I’ve seen yeh practicin’ Quidditch ev’ry 
hour o’ the day an’ night — but I gotta tell yeh, I 
thought you two’d value yer friend more’n 
broomsticks or rats. Tha’s all.” 

Harry and Ron exchanged uncomfortable looks. 

“Really upset, she was, when Black nearly stabbed 
yeh, Ron. She’s got her heart in the right place, 
Hermione has, an’ you two not talkin’ to her — ” 



Page | 305 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“If she’d just get rid of that cat, I’d speak to her 
again!” Ron said angrily. “But she’s still sticking up 
for it! It’s a maniac, and she won’t hear a word 
against it!” 

“Ah, well, people can be a bit stupid abou’ their pets,” 
said Hagrid wisely. Behind him, Buckbeak spat a few 
ferret bones onto Hagrid’s pillow. 

They spent the rest of their visit discussing 
Gryffindor’s improved chances for the Quidditch Cup. 
At nine o’clock, Hagrid walked them back up to the 
castle. 

A large group of people was bunched around the 
bulletin board when they returned to the common 
room. 

“Hogsmeade, next weekend!” said Ron, craning over 
the heads to read the new notice. “What d’you 
reckon?” he added quietly to Harry as they went to sit 
down. 

“Well, Filch hasn’t done anything about the passage 
into Honeydukes. ...” Harry said, even more quietly. 

“Harry!” said a voice in his right ear. Harry started 
and looked around at Hermione, who was sitting at 
the table right behind them and clearing a space in 
the wall of books that had been hiding her. 

“Harry, if you go into Hogsmeade again ... I’ll tell 
Professor McGonagall about that map!” said 
Hermione. 

“Can you hear someone talking, Harry?” growled Ron, 
not looking at Hermione. 



Page | 306 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron, how can you let him go with you? After what 
Sirius Black nearly did to youl I mean it, I’ll tell — ” 

“So now you’re trying to get Harry expelled!” said Ron 
furiously. “Haven’t you done enough damage this 
year?” 

Hermione opened her mouth to respond, but with a 
soft hiss, Crookshanks leapt onto her lap. Hermione 
took one frightened look at the expression on Ron’s 
face, gathered up Crookshanks, and hurried away 
toward the girls’ dormitories. 

“So how about it?” Ron said to Harry as though there 
had been no interruption. “Come on, last time we 
went you didn’t see anything. You haven’t even been 
inside Zonko’s yet!” 

Harry looked around to check that Hermione was well 
out of earshot. 

“Okay,” he said. “But I’m taking the Invisibility Cloak 
this time.” 

On Saturday morning, Harry packed his Invisibility 
Cloak in his bag, slipped the Marauder’s Map into his 
pocket, and went down to breakfast with everyone 
else. Hermione kept shooting suspicious looks down 
the table at him, but he avoided her eye and was 
careful to let her see him walking back up the marble 
staircase in the entrance hall as everybody else 
proceeded to the front doors. 

“ ’Bye!” Harry called to Ron. “See you when you get 
back!” 

Ron grinned and winked. 



Page | 307 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry hurried up to the third floor, slipping the 
Marauder’s Map out of his pocket as he went. 
Crouching behind the one-eyed witch, he smoothed it 
out. A tiny dot was moving in his direction. Harry 
squinted at it. The minuscule writing next to it read 
Neville Longbottom. 

Harry quickly pulled out his wand, muttered, 

“ Dissendium).” and shoved his bag into the statue, but 
before he could climb in himself, Neville came around 
the corner. 

“Harry! I forgot you weren’t going to Hogsmeade 
either!” 

“Hi, Neville,” said Harry, moving swiftly away from the 
statue and pushing the map back into his pocket. 
“What are you up to?” 

“Nothing,” shrugged Neville. “Want a game of 
Exploding Snap?” 

“Er — not now — I was going to go to the library and 
do that vampire essay for Lupin — ” 

“I’ll come with you!” said Neville brightly. “I haven’t 
done it either!” 

“Er — hang on — yeah, I forgot, I finished it last 
night!” 

“Great, you can help me!” said Neville, his round face 
anxious. “I don’t understand that thing about the 
garlic at all — do they have to eat it, or — ” 

He broke off with a small gasp, looking over Harry’s 
shoulder. 

It was Snape. Neville took a quick step behind Harry. 

Page | 308 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“And what are you two doing here?” said Snape, 
coming to a halt and looking from one to the other. 
“An odd place to meet — ” 

To Harry’s immense disquiet, Snape’s black eyes 
flicked to the doorways on either side of them, and 
then to the one-eyed witch. 

“We’re not — meeting here,” said Harry. “We just — 
met here.” 

“Indeed?” said Snape. “You have a habit of turning up 
in unexpected places, Potter, and you are very rarely 
there for no good reason. ... I suggest the pair of you 
return to Gryffindor Tower, where you belong.” 

Harry and Neville set off without another word. As 
they turned the corner, Harry looked back. Snape was 
running one of his hands over the one-eyed witch’s 
head, examining it closely. 

Harry managed to shake Neville off at the Fat Lady by 
telling him the password, then pretending he’d left his 
vampire essay in the library and doubling back. Once 
out of sight of the security trolls, he pulled out the 
map again and held it close to his nose. 

The third floor corridor seemed to be deserted. Harry 
scanned the map carefully and saw, with a leap of 
relief, that the tiny dot labeled Severus Snape was 
now back in its office. 

He sprinted back to the one-eyed witch, opened her 
hump, heaved himself inside, and slid down to meet 
his bag at the bottom of the stone chute. He wiped 
the Marauder’s Map blank again, then set off at a 
run. 



Page | 309 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, completely hidden beneath the Invisibility 
Cloak, emerged into the sunlight outside Honeydukes 
and prodded Ron in the back. 

“It’s me,” he muttered. 

“What kept you?” Ron hissed. 

“Snape was hanging around. ...” 

They set off up the High Street. 

“Where are you?” Ron kept muttering out of the 
corner of his mouth. “Are you still there? This feels 
weird. ...” 

They went to the post office; Ron pretended to be 
checking the price of an owl to Bill in Egypt so that 
Harry could have a good look around. The owls sat 
hooting softly down at him, at least three hundred of 
them; from Great Grays right down to tiny little Scops 
owls (“Local Deliveries Only”), which were so small 
they could have sat in the palm of Harry’s hand. 

Then they visited Zonko’s, which was so packed with 
students Harry had to exercise great care not to tread 
on anyone and cause a panic. There were jokes and 
tricks to fulfill even Fred’s and George’s wildest 
dreams; Harry gave Ron whispered orders and passed 
him some gold from under the cloak. They left 
Zonko’s with their money bags considerably lighter 
than they had been on entering, but their pockets 
bulging with Dungbombs, Hiccup Sweets, Frog Spawn 
Soap, and a Nose-Biting Teacup apiece. 

The day was fine and breezy, and neither of them felt 
like staying indoors, so they walked past the Three 
Broomsticks and climbed a slope to visit the 
Shrieking Shack, the most haunted dwelling in 

Page | 310 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Britain. It stood a little way above the rest of the 
village, and even in daylight was slightly creepy, with 
its boarded windows and dank overgrown garden. 

“Even the Hogwarts ghosts avoid it,” said Ron as they 
leaned on the fence, looking up at it. “I asked Nearly 
Headless Nick ... he says he’s heard a very rough 
crowd lives here. No one can get in. Fred and George 
tried, obviously, but all the entrances are sealed shut. 



Harry, feeling hot from their climb, was just 
considering taking off the cloak for a few minutes 
when they heard voices nearby. Someone was 
climbing toward the house from the other side of the 
hill; moments later, Malfoy had appeared, followed 
closely by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy was speaking. 

"... should have an owl from Father any time now. He 
had to go to the hearing to tell them about my arm . . . 
about how I couldn’t use it for three months. ...” 

Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. 

“I really wish I could hear that great hairy moron 
trying to defend himself ... There’s no ’arm in ’im, 
’onest — ’ . . . that hippogriff’s as good as dead — ” 

Malfoy suddenly caught sight of Ron. His pale face 
split in a malevolent grin. 

“What are you doing, Weasley?” 

Malfoy looked up at the crumbling house behind Ron. 

“Suppose you’d love to live here, wouldn’t you, 
Weasley? Dreaming about having your own bedroom? 

I heard your family all sleep in one room — is that 
true?” 

Page | 311 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry seized the back of Ron’s robes to stop him from 
leaping on Malfoy. 

“Leave him to me,” he hissed in Ron’s ear. 

The opportunity was too perfect to miss. Harry crept 
silently around behind Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, 
bent down, and scooped a large handful of mud out of 
the path. 

“We were just discussing your friend Hagrid,” Malfoy 
said to Ron. “Just trying to imagine what he’s saying 
to the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous 
Creatures. D’you think he’ll cry when they cut off his 
hippogriff’s — ” 

SPLAT. 

Malfoy’s head jerked forward as the mud hit him; his 
silver-blond hair was suddenly dripping in muck. 

“What the — ?” 

Ron had to hold onto the fence to keep himself 
standing, he was laughing so hard. Malfoy, Crabbe, 
and Goyle spun stupidly on the spot, staring wildly 
around, Malfoy trying to wipe his hair clean. 

“What was that? Who did that?” 

“Very haunted up here, isn’t it?” said Ron, with the 
air of one commenting on the weather. 

Crabbe and Goyle were looking scared. Their bulging 
muscles were no use against ghosts. Malfoy was 
staring madly around at the deserted landscape. 



Page | 312 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry sneaked along the path, where a particularly 
sloppy puddle yielded some foul-smelling, green 
sludge. 

SPLATTER. 

Crabbe and Goyle caught some this time. Goyle 
hopped furiously on the spot, trying to rub it out of 
his small, dull eyes. 

“It came from over there!” said Malfoy, wiping his 
face, and staring at a spot some six feet to the left of 
Harry. 

Crabbe blundered forward, his long arms 
outstretched like a zombie. Harry dodged around him, 
picked up a stick, and lobbed it at Crabbe ’s back. 
Harry doubled up with silent laughter as Crabbe did a 
kind of pirouette in midair, trying to see who had 
thrown it. As Ron was the only person Crabbe could 
see, it was Ron he started toward, but Harry stuck 
out his leg. Crabbe stumbled — and his huge, flat foot 
caught the hem of Harry’s cloak. Harry felt a great 
tug, then the cloak slid off his face. 

For a split second, Malfoy stared at him. 

“AAARGH!” he yelled, pointing at Harry’s head. Then 
he turned tail and ran, at breakneck speed, back 
down the hill, Crabbe and Goyle behind him. 

Harry tugged the cloak up again, but the damage was 
done. 

“Harry!” Ron said, stumbling forward and staring 
hopelessly at the point where Harry had disappeared, 
“you’d better run for it! If Malfoy tells anyone — you’d 
better get back to the castle, quick — ” 



Page | 313 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“See you later,” said Harry, and without another 
word, he tore back down the path toward Hogsmeade. 



Would Malfoy believe what he had seen? Would 
anyone believe Malfoy? Nobody knew about the 
Invisibility Cloak — nobody except Dumbledore. 
Harry’s stomach turned over — Dumbledore would 
know exactly what had happened, if Malfoy said 
anything — 

Back into Honeydukes, back down the cellar steps, 
across the stone floor, through the trapdoor — Harry 
pulled off the cloak, tucked it under his arm, and ran, 
flat out, along the passage. ... Malfoy would get back 
first . . . how long would it take him to find a teacher? 
Panting, a sharp pain in his side, Harry didn’t slow 
down until he reached the stone slide. He would have 
to leave the cloak where it was, it was too much of a 
giveaway in case Malfoy had tipped off a teacher — he 
hid it in a shadowy corner, then started to climb, fast 
as he could, his sweaty hands slipping on the sides of 
the chute. He reached the inside of the witch’s hump, 
tapped it with his wand, stuck his head through, and 
hoisted himself out; the hump closed, and just as 
Harry jumped out from behind the statue, he heard 
quick footsteps approaching. 

It was Snape. He approached Harry at a swift walk, 
his black robes swishing, then stopped in front of 
him. 

“So,” he said. 

There was a look of suppressed triumph about him. 
Harry tried to look innocent, all too aware of his 
sweaty face and his muddy hands, which he quickly 
hid in his pockets. 

“Come with me, Potter,” said Snape. 

Page | 314 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry followed him downstairs, trying to wipe his 
hands clean on the inside of his robes without Snape 
noticing. They walked down the stairs to the 
dungeons and then into Snape’s office. 

Harry had been in here only once before, and he had 
been in very serious trouble then too. Snape had 
acquired a few more slimy horrible things in jars 
since last time, all standing on shelves behind his 
desk, glinting in the firelight and adding to the 
threatening atmosphere. 

“Sit,” said Snape. 

Harry sat. Snape, however, remained standing. 

“Mr. Malfoy has just been to see me with a strange 
story, Potter,” said Snape. 

Harry didn’t say anything. 

“He tells me that he was up by the Shrieking Shack 
when he ran into Weasley — apparently alone.” 

Still, Harry didn’t speak. 

“Mr. Malfoy states that he was standing talking to 
Weasley, when a large amount of mud hit him in the 
back of the head. How do you think that could have 
happened?” 

Harry tried to look mildly surprised. 

“I don’t know, Professor.” 

Snape’s eyes were boring into Harry’s. It was exactly 
like trying to stare down a hippogriff. Harry tried hard 
not to blink. 



Page | 315 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Mr. Malfoy then saw an extraordinary apparition. 

Can you imagine what it might have been, Potter?” 

“No,” said Harry, now trying to sound innocently 
curious. 

“It was your head, Potter. Floating in midair.” 

There was a long silence. 

“Maybe he’d better go to Madam Pomfrey,” said Harry. 
“If he’s seeing things like — ” 

“What would your head have been doing in 
Hogsmeade, Potter?” said Snape softly. “Your head is 
not allowed in Hogsmeade. No part of your body has 
permission to be in Hogsmeade.” 

“I know that,” said Harry, striving to keep his face free 
of guilt or fear. “It sounds like Malfoy’s having 
hallucin — ” 

“Malfoy is not having hallucinations,” snarled Snape, 
and he bent down, a hand on each arm of Harry’s 
chair, so that their faces were a foot apart. “If your 
head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you.” 

“I’ve been up in Gryffindor Tower,” said Harry. “Like 
you told — ” 

“Can anyone confirm that?” 

Harry didn’t say anything. Snape’s thin mouth curled 
into a horrible smile. 

“So,” he said, straightening up again. “Everyone from 
the Minister of Magic downward has been trying to 
keep famous Harry Potter safe from Sirius Black. But 
famous Harry Potter is a law unto himself. Let the 

Page | 316 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




ordinary people worry about his safety! Famous Harry 
Potter goes where he wants to, with no thought for 
the consequences.” 

Harry stayed silent. Snape was trying to provoke him 
into telling the truth. He wasn’t going to do it. Snape 
had no proof — yet. 

“How extraordinarily like your father you are, Potter,” 
Snape said suddenly, his eyes glinting. “He too was 
exceedingly arrogant. A small amount of talent on the 
Quidditch field made him think he was a cut above 
the rest of us too. Strutting around the place with his 
friends and admirers . . . The resemblance between you 
is uncanny.” 

“My dad didn’t strut,” said Harry, before he could stop 
himself. “And neither do I.” 

“Your father didn’t set much store by rules either,” 
Snape went on, pressing his advantage, his thin face 
full of malice. “Rules were for lesser mortals, not 
Quidditch Cup-winners. His head was so swollen — ” 

“SHUT UP!” 

Harry was suddenly on his feet. Rage such as he had 
not felt since his last night in Privet Drive was 
coursing through him. He didn’t care that Snape’s 
face had gone rigid, the black eyes flashing 
dangerously. 

“ What did you say to me, Potter?” 

