evening in detention with Umbridge. Ron was even 
further behind with his work than Harry, because 
while they both had Quidditch practices twice a week, 
Page | 426Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron also had prefect duties. However, Hermione, who 
was taking more subjects than either of them, had 
not only finished all her homework but was also 
finding time to knit more elf clothes. Harry had to 
admit that she was getting better; it was now almost 
always possible to distinguish between the hats and 
the socks. 

The morning of the Hogsmeade visit dawned bright 
but windy. After breakfast they queued up in front of 
Filch, who matched their names to the long list of 
students who had permission from their parents or 
guardian to visit the village. With a slight pang, Harry 
remembered that if it hadn’t been for Sirius, he would 
not have been going at all. 

When Harry reached Filch, the caretaker gave a great 
sniff as though trying to detect a whiff of something 
from Harry. Then he gave a curt nod that set his jowls 
aquiver again and Harry walked on, out onto the 
stone steps and the cold, sunlit day. 

“Er — why was Filch sniffing you?” asked Ron, as he, 
Harry, and Hermione set off at a brisk pace down the 
wide drive to the gates. 

“I suppose he was checking for the smell of 
Dungbombs,” said Harry with a small laugh. “I forgot 
to tell you ...” 

And he recounted the story of sending his letter to 
Sirius and Filch bursting in seconds later, demanding 
to see the letter. To his slight surprise, Hermione 
found this story highly interesting, much more, 
indeed, than he did himself. 

“He said he was tipped off you were ordering 
Dungbombs? But who had tipped him off?” 



Page | 427Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I dunno,” said Harry, shrugging. “Maybe Malfoy, he’d 
think it was a laugh.” 

They walked between the tall stone pillars topped 
with winged boars and turned left onto the road into 
the village, the wind whipping their hair into their 
eyes. 

“Malfoy?” said Hermione, very skeptically. “Well ... yes 
... maybe ...” 

And she remained deep in thought all the way into 
the outskirts of Hogsmeade. 

“Where are we going anyway?” Harry asked. “The 
Three Broomsticks?” 

“Oh — no,” said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, 
“no, it’s always packed and really noisy. I’ve told the 
others to meet us in the Hog’s Head, that other pub, 
you know the one, it’s not on the main road. I think 
it’s a bit ... you know ... dodgy ... but students don’t 
normally go in there, so I don’t think we’ll be 
overheard.” 

They walked down the main street past Zonko’s Joke 
Shop, where they were unsurprised to see Fred, 
George, and Lee Jordan, past the post office, from 
which owls issued at regular intervals, and turned up 
a side street at the top of which stood a small inn. A 
battered wooden sign hung from a rusty bracket over 
the door, with a picture upon it of a wild boar’s 
severed head leaking blood onto the white cloth 
around it. The sign creaked in the wind as they 
approached. All three of them hesitated outside the 
door. 

“Well, come on,” said Hermione slightly nervously. 
Harry led the way inside. 

Page | 428Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was not at all like the Three Broomsticks, whose 
large bar gave an impression of gleaming warmth and 
cleanliness. The Hog’s Head bar comprised one small, 
dingy, and very dirty room that smelled strongly of 
something that might have been goats. The bay 
windows were so encrusted with grime that very little 
daylight could permeate the room, which was lit 
instead with the stubs of candles sitting on rough 
wooden tables. The floor seemed at first glance to be 
earthy, though as Harry stepped onto it he realized 
that there was stone beneath what seemed to be the 
accumulated filth of centuries. 

Harry remembered Hagrid mentioning this pub in his 
first year: “Yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in the Hog’s 
Head,” he had said, explaining how he had won a 
dragons egg from a hooded stranger there. At the time 
Harry had wondered why Hagrid had not found it odd 
that the stranger kept his face hidden throughout 
their encounter; now he saw that keeping your face 
hidden was something of a fashion in the Hog’s Head. 
There was a man at the bar whose whole head was 
wrapped in dirty gray bandages, though he was still 
managing to gulp endless glasses of some smoking, 
fiery substance through a slit over his mouth. Two 
figures shrouded in hoods sat at a table in one of the 
windows; Harry might have thought them dementors 
if they had not been talking in strong Yorkshire 
accents; in a shadowy corner beside the fireplace sat 
a witch with a thick, black veil that fell to her toes. 
They could just see the tip of her nose because it 
caused the veil to protrude slightly. 

“I don’t know about this, Hermione,” Harry muttered, 
as they crossed to the bar. He was looking 
particularly at the heavily veiled witch. “Has it 
occurred to you Umbridge might be under that?” 

Hermione cast an appraising eye at the veiled figure. 

Page | 429Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Umbridge is shorter than that woman,” she said 
quietly. “And anyway, even if Umbridge does come in 
here there’s nothing she can do to stop us, Harry, 
because I’ve double- and triple-checked the school 
rules. We’re not out-of-bounds; I specifically asked 
Professor Flitwick whether students were allowed to 
come in the Hog’s Head, and he said yes, but he 
advised me strongly to bring our own glasses. And I’ve 
looked up everything I can think of about study 
groups and homework groups and they’re definitely 
allowed. I just don’t think it’s a good idea if we parade 
what we’re doing.” 

“No,” said Harry dryly, “especially as it’s not exactly a 
homework group you’re planning, is it?” 

The barman sidled toward them out of a back room. 
He was a grumpy-looking old man with a great deal of 
long gray hair and beard. He was tall and thin and 
looked vaguely familiar to Harry. 

“What?” he grunted. 

“Three butterbeers, please,” said Hermione. 

The man reached beneath the counter and pulled up 
three very dusty, very dirty bottles, which he 
slammed on the bar. 

“Six Sickles,” he said. 

“I’ll get them,” said Harry quickly, passing over the 
silver. The barman’s eyes traveled over Harry, resting 
for a fraction of a second on his scar. Then he turned 
away and deposited Harry’s money in an ancient 
wooden till whose drawer slid open automatically to 
receive it. Harry, Ron, and Hermione retreated to the 
farthest table from the bar and sat down, looking 
around, while the man in the dirty gray bandages 
Page | 430Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




rapped the counter with his knuckles and received 
another smoking drink from the barman. 



“You know what?” Ron murmured, looking over at the 
bar with enthusiasm. “We could order anything we 
liked in here, I bet that bloke would sell us anything, 
he wouldn’t care. I’ve always wanted to try firewhisky 



“You — are — a — prefect,” snarled Hermione. 

“Oh,” said Ron, the smile fading from his face. “Yeah 



“So who did you say is supposed to be meeting us?” 
Harry asked, wrenching open the rusty top of his 
butterbeer and taking a swig. 

“Just a couple of people,” Hermione repeated, 
checking her watch and then looking anxiously 
toward the door. “I told them to be here about now 
and I’m sure they all know where it is — oh look, this 
might be them now — ” 

The door of the pub had opened. A thick band of 
dusty sunlight split the room in two for a moment 
and then vanished, blocked by the incoming rush of a 
crowd of people. 

First came Neville with Dean and Lavender, who were 
closely followed by Parvati and Padma Patil with 
(Harry’s stomach did a back flip) Cho and one of her 
usually giggling girlfriends, then (on her own and 
looking so dreamy that she might have walked in by 
accident) Luna Lovegood; then Katie Bell, Alicia 
Spinnet, and Angelina Johnson, Colin and Dennis 
Creevey, Ernie Macmillan, Justin Finch-Fletchley, 
Hannah Abbott, and a Hufflepuff girl with a long plait 
down her back whose name Harry did not know; 

Page | 431Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




three Ravenclaw boys he was pretty sure were called 
Anthony Goldstein, Michael Corner, and Terry Boot; 
Ginny, followed by a tall skinny blond boy with an 
upturned nose whom Harry recognized vaguely as 
being a member of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team, and 
bringing up the rear, Fred and George Weasley with 
their friend Lee Jordan, all three of whom were 
carrying large paper bags crammed with Zonko’s 
merchandise. 

“A couple of people?” said Harry hoarsely to 
Hermione. “A couple of people ?” 

“Yes, well, the idea seemed quite popular,” said 
Hermione happily. “Ron, do you want to pull up some 
more chairs?” 

The barman had frozen in the act of wiping out a 
glass with a rag so filthy it looked as though it had 
never been washed. Possibly he had never seen his 
pub so full. 

“Hi,” said Fred, reaching the bar first and counting 
his companions quickly. “Could we have . . . twenty- 
five butterbeers, please?” 

The barman glared at him for a moment, then, 
throwing down his rag irritably as though he had 
been interrupted in something very important, he 
started passing up dusty butterbeers from under the 
bar. 

“Cheers,” said Fred, handing them out. “Cough up, 
everyone, I haven’t got enough gold for all of these...” 

Harry watched numbly as the large chattering group 
took their beers from Fred and rummaged in their 
robes to find coins. He could not imagine what all 
these people had turned up for until the horrible 

Page | 432Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




thought occurred to him that they might be expecting 
some kind of speech, at which he rounded on 
Hermione. 

“What have you been telling people?” he said in a low 
voice. “What are they expecting?” 

“I’ve told you, they just want to hear what you’ve got 
to say,” said Hermione soothingly; but Harry 
continued to look at her so furiously that she added 
quickly, “You don’t have to do anything yet, I’ll speak 
to them first.” 

“Hi, Harry,” said Neville, beaming and taking a seat 
opposite Harry. 

Harry tried to smile back, but did not speak; his 
mouth was exceptionally dry. Cho had just smiled at 
him and sat down on Ron’s right. Her friend, who had 
curly reddish-blonde hair, did not smile, but gave 
Harry a thoroughly mistrustful look that told Harry 
plainly that, given her way, she would not be here at 
all. 

In twos and threes the new arrivals settled around 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione, some looking rather 
excited, others curious, Luna Lovegood gazing 
dreamily into space. When everybody had pulled up a 
chair, the chatter died out. Every eye was upon 
Harry. 

“Er,” said Hermione, her voice slightly higher than 
usual out of nerves. “Well — er — hi.” 

The group focused its attention on her instead, 
though eyes continued to dart back regularly to 
Harry. 



Page | 433Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well ... erm ... well, you know why you’re here. Erm 
... well, Harry here had the idea — I mean” — Harry 
had thrown her a sharp look — “I had the idea — that 
it might be good if people who wanted to study 
Defense Against the Dark Arts — and I mean, really 
study it, you know, not the rubbish that Umbridge is 
doing with us” — (Hermione’s voice became suddenly 
much stronger and more confident) — “because 
nobody could call that Defense Against the Dark Arts” 
— “Hear, hear,” said Anthony Goldstein, and 
Hermione looked heartened — “well, I thought it 
would be good if we, well, took matters into our own 
hands.” 

She paused, looked sideways at Harry, and went on, 
“And by that I mean learning how to defend ourselves 
properly, not just theory but the real spells — ” 

“You want to pass your Defense Against the Dark Arts 
O.W.L. too though, I bet?” said Michael Corner. 

“Of course I do,” said Hermione at once. “But I want 
more than that, I want to be properly trained in 
Defense because ... because ...” She took a great 
breath and finished, “Because Lord Voldemort’s 
back.” 

The reaction was immediate and predictable. Cho’s 
friend shrieked and slopped butterbeer down herself, 
Terry Boot gave a kind of involuntary twitch, Padma 
Patil shuddered, and Neville gave an odd yelp that he 
managed to turn into a cough. All of them, however, 
looked fixedly, even eagerly, at Harry. 

“Well ... that’s the plan anyway,” said Hermione. “If 
you want to join us, we need to decide how we’re 
going to — ” 



Page | 434Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Where’s the proof You-Know- Who’s back?” said the 
blond Hufflepuff player in a rather aggressive voice. 

“Well, Dumbledore believes it — ” Hermione began. 

“You mean, Dumbledore believes him,” said the blond 
boy, nodding at Harry. 

“Who are you?” said Ron rather rudely. 

“Zacharias Smith,” said the boy, “and I think we’ve 
got the right to know exactly what makes him say 
You-Know-Who’s back.” 

“Look,” said Hermione, intervening swiftly, “that’s 
really not what this meeting was supposed to be 
about — ” 

“It’s okay, Hermione,” said Harry. 

It had just dawned upon him why there were so many 
people there. He felt that Hermione should have seen 
this coming. Some of these people — maybe even 
most of them — had turned up in the hope of hearing 
Harry’s story firsthand. 

“What makes me say You-Know-Who’s back?” he 
asked, looking Zacharias straight in the face. “I saw 
him. But Dumbledore told the whole school what 
happened last year, and if you didn’t believe him, you 
don’t believe me, and I’m not wasting an afternoon 
trying to convince anyone.” 

The whole group seemed to have held its breath while 
Harry spoke. Harry had the impression that even the 
barman was listening in. He was wiping the same 
glass with the filthy rag; it was becoming steadily 
dirtier. 



Page | 435Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Zacharias said dismissively, “All Dumbledore told us 
last year was that Cedric Diggory got killed by You- 
Know-Who and that you brought Diggory’s body back 
to Hogwarts. He didn’t give us details, he didn’t tell us 
exactly how Diggory got murdered, I think we’d all 
like to know — ” 

“If you’ve come to hear exactly what it looks like when 
Voldemort murders someone I can’t help you,” Harry 
said. His temper, always so close to the surface these 
days, was rising again. He did not take his eyes from 
Zacharias Smith’s aggressive face, determined not to 
look at Cho. “I don’t want to talk about Cedric 
Diggory, all right? So if that’s what you’re here for, 
you might as well clear out.” 

He cast an angry look in Hermione’s direction. This 
was, he felt, all her fault; she had decided to display 
him like some sort of freak and of course they had all 
turned up to see just how wild his story was... But 
none of them left their seats, not even Zacharias 
Smith, though he continued to gaze intently at Harry. 

“So,” said Hermione, her voice very high-pitched 
again. “So ... like I was saying ... if you want to learn 
some defense, then we need to work out how we’re 
going to do it, how often we’re going to meet, and 
where we’re going to — ” 

“Is it true,” interrupted the girl with the long plait 
down her back, looking at Harry, “that you can 
produce a Patronus?” 

There was a murmur of interest around the group at 
this. 

“Yeah,” said Harry slightly defensively. 

“A corporeal Patronus?” 

Page | 436Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The phrase stirred something in Harry’s memory. 



“Er — you don’t know Madam Bones, do you?” he 
asked. 

The girl smiled. 

“She’s my auntie,” she said. “I’m Susan Bones. She 
told me about your hearing. So — is it really true? 

You make a stag Patronus?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. 

“Blimey, Harry!” said Lee, looking deeply impressed. “I 
never knew that!” 

“Mum told Ron not to spread it around,” said Fred, 
grinning at Harry. “She said you got enough attention 
as it was.” 

“She’s not wrong,” mumbled Harry and a couple of 
people laughed. The veiled witch sitting alone shifted 
very slightly in her seat. 

“And did you kill a basilisk with that sword in 
Dumbledore’s office?” demanded Terry Boot. “That’s 
what one of the portraits on the wall told me when I 
was in there last year...” 

“Er — yeah, I did, yeah,” said Harry. 

Justin Finch-Fletchley whistled, the Creevey brothers 
exchanged awestruck looks, and Lavender Brown said 
“wow” softly. Harry was feeling slightly hot around the 
collar now; he was determinedly looking anywhere 
but at Cho. 

“And in our first year,” said Neville to the group at 
large, “he saved that Sorcerous Stone — ” 

Page | 437Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Sorcerer’s,” hissed Hermione. 

“Yes, that, from You-Know-Who,” finished Neville. 

Hannah Abbott’s eyes were as round as Galleons. 

“And that’s not to mention,” said Cho (Harry’s eyes 
snapped onto her, she was looking at him, smiling; 
his stomach did another somersault), “all the tasks he 
had to get through in the Triwizard Tournament last 
year — getting past dragons and merpeople and 
acromantulas and things...” 

There was a murmur of impressed agreement around 
the table. 

Harry’s insides were squirming. He was trying to 
arrange his face so that he did not look too pleased 
with himself. The fact that Cho had just praised him 
made it much, much harder for him to say the thing 
he had sworn to himself he would tell them. 

“Look,” he said and everyone fell silent at once, “I ... I 
don’t want to sound like I’m trying to be modest or 
anything, but ... I had a lot of help with all that 
stuff...” 

“Not with the dragon, you didn’t,” said Michael Corner 
at once. “That was a seriously cool bit of flying...” 

“Yeah, well — ” said Harry, feeling it would be churlish 
to disagree. 

“And nobody helped you get rid of those dementors 
this summer,” said Susan Bones. 

“No,” said Harry, “no, okay, I know I did bits of it 
without help, but the point I’m trying to make is — ” 



Page | 438Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you trying to weasel out of showing us any of 
this stuff?” said Zacharias Smith. 

“Here’s an idea,” said Ron loudly, before Harry could 
speak, “why don’t you shut your mouth?” 

Perhaps the word “weasel” had affected Ron 
particularly strongly; in any case, he was now looking 
at Zacharias as though he would like nothing better 
than to thump him. Zacharias flushed. 

“Well, we’ve all turned up to learn from him, and now 
he’s telling us he can’t really do any of it,” he said. 

“That’s not what he said,” snarled Fred Weasley. 

“Would you like us to clean out your ears for you?” 
inquired George, pulling a long and lethal-looking 
metal instrument from inside one of the Zonko’s bags. 

“Or any part of your body, really, we’re not fussy 
where we stick this,” said Fred. 

“Yes, well,” said Hermione hastily, “moving on ... the 
point is, are we agreed we want to take lessons from 
Harry?” 

There was a murmur of general agreement. Zacharias 
folded his arms and said nothing, though perhaps 
this was because he was too busy keeping an eye on 
the instrument in George’s hand. 

“Right,” said Hermione, looking relieved that 
something had at last been settled. “Well, then, the 
next question is how often we do it. I really don’t 
think there’s any point in meeting less than once a 
week — ” 



Page | 439Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Hang on,” said Angelina, “we need to make sure this 
doesn’t clash with our Quidditch practice.” 

“No,” said Cho, “nor with ours.” 

“Nor ours,” added Zacharias Smith. 

“I’m sure we can find a night that suits everyone,” 
said Hermione, slightly impatiently, “but you know, 
this is rather important, we’re talking about learning 
to defend ourselves against V-Voldemort’s Death 
Eaters — ” 

“Well said!” barked Ernie Macmillan, whom Harry had 
been expecting to speak long before this. “Personally I 
think this is really important, possibly more 
important than anything else we’ll do this year, even 
with our O.W.L.s coming up!” 

He looked around impressively, as though waiting for 
people to cry, “Surely not!” When nobody spoke, he 
went on, “I, personally, am at a loss to see why the 
Ministry has foisted such a useless teacher upon us 
at this critical period. Obviously they are in denial 
about the return of You-Know-Who, but to give us a 
teacher who is trying to actively prevent us from 
using defensive spells — ” 

“We think the reason Umbridge doesn’t want us 
trained in Defense Against the Dark Arts,” said 
Hermione, “is that she’s got some ... some mad idea 
that Dumbledore could use the students in the school 
as a kind of private army. She thinks he’d mobilize us 
against the Ministry.” 

Nearly everybody looked stunned at this news; 
everybody except Luna Lovegood, who piped up, 

“Well, that makes sense. After all, Cornelius Fudge 
has got his own private army.” 

Page | 440Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” said Harry, completely thrown by this 
unexpected piece of information. 

“Yes, he’s got an army of heliopaths,” said Luna 
solemnly. 

“No, he hasn’t,” snapped Hermione. 

“Yes, he has,” said Luna. 

“What are heliopaths?” asked Neville, looking blank. 

“They’re spirits of fire,” said Luna, her protuberant 
eyes widening so that she looked madder than ever. 
“Great tall flaming creatures that gallop across the 
ground burning everything in front of — ” 

“They don’t exist, Neville,” said Hermione tartly. 

“Oh yes they do!” said Luna angrily. 

“I’m sorry, but where’s the proof of that?” snapped 
Hermione. 

“There are plenty of eyewitness accounts, just 
because you’re so narrow-minded you need to have 
everything shoved under your nose before you — ” 

“Hem, hem,” said Ginny in such a good imitation of 
Professor Umbridge that several people looked around 
in alarm and then laughed. “Weren’t we trying to 
decide how often we’re going to meet and get Defense 
lessons?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione at once, “yes, we were, you’re 
right...” 

“Well, once a week sounds cool,” said Lee Jordan. 



Page | 441Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“As long as — ” began Angelina. 



“Yes, yes, we know about the Quidditch,” said 
Hermione in a tense voice. “Well, the other thing to 
decide is where we’re going to meet...” 

This was rather more difficult; the whole group fell 
silent. 

“Library?” suggested Katie Bell after a few moments. 

“I can’t see Madam Pince being too chuffed with us 
doing jinxes in the library,” said Harry. 

“Maybe an unused classroom?” said Dean. 

“Yeah,” said Ron, “McGonagall might let us have hers, 
she did when Harry was practicing for the 
Tri wizard...” 

But Harry was pretty certain that McGonagall would 
not be so accommodating this time. For all that 
Hermione had said about study and homework 
groups being allowed, he had the distinct feeling this 
one might be considered a lot more rebellious. 

“Right, well, we’ll try to find somewhere,” said 
Hermione. “We’ll send a message round to everybody 
when we’ve got a time and a place for the first 
meeting.” 

She rummaged in her bag and produced parchment 
and a quill, then hesitated, rather as though she was 
steeling herself to say something. 

“I-I think everybody should write their name down, 
just so we know who was here. But I also think,” she 
took a deep breath, “that we all ought to agree not to 
shout about what we’re doing. So if you sign, you’re 

Page | 442Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




agreeing not to tell Umbridge — or anybody else 
what we’re up to.” 



Fred reached out for the parchment and cheerfully 
put down his signature, but Harry noticed at once 
that several people looked less than happy at the 
prospect of putting their names on the list. 

“Er ...” said Zacharias slowly, not taking the 
parchment that George was trying to pass him. “Well 
... I’m sure Ernie will tell me when the meeting is.” 

But Ernie was looking rather hesitant about signing 
too. Hermione raised her eyebrows at him. 

“I — well, we are prefects,” Ernie burst out. “And if 
this list was found ... well, I mean to say ... you said 
yourself, if Umbridge finds out ...” 

“You just said this group was the most important 
thing you’d do this year,” Harry reminded him. 

“I — yes,” said Ernie, “yes, I do believe that, it’s just 



“Ernie, do you really think I’d leave that list lying 
around?” said Hermione testily. 

“No. No, of course not,” said Ernie, looking slightly 
less anxious. “I — yes, of course I’ll sign.” 

Nobody raised objections after Ernie, though Harry 
saw Cho’s friend give her a rather reproachful look 
before adding her name. When the last person — 
Zacharias — had signed, Hermione took the 
parchment back and slipped it carefully into her bag. 
There was an odd feeling in the group now. It was as 
though they had just signed some kind of contract. 

Page | 443Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, time’s ticking on,” said Fred briskly, getting to 
his feet. “George, Lee, and I have got items of a 
sensitive nature to purchase, we’ll be seeing you all 
later.” 

In twos and threes the rest of the group took their 
leave too. Cho made rather a business of fastening 
the catch on her bag before leaving, her long dark 
curtain of hair swinging forward to hide her face, but 
her friend stood beside her, arms folded, clicking her 
tongue, so that Cho had little choice but to leave with 
her. As her friend ushered her through the door, Cho 
looked back and waved at Harry. 

“Well, I think that went quite well,” said Hermione 
happily, as she, Harry, and Ron walked out of the 
Hog’s Head into the bright sunlight a few moments 
later, Harry and Ron still clutching their bottles of 
butterbeer. 

“That Zacharias bloke’s a wart,” said Ron, who was 
glowering after the figure of Smith just discernible in 
the distance. 

“I don’t like him much either,” admitted Hermione, 
“but he overheard me talking to Ernie and Hannah at 
the Hufflepuff table and he seemed really interested 
in coming, so what could I say? But the more people 
the better really — I mean, Michael Corner and his 
friends wouldn’t have come if he hadn’t been going 
out with Ginny — ” 

Ron, who had been draining the last few drops from 
his butterbeer bottle, gagged and sprayed butterbeer 
down his front. 

“He’s WHAT?” said Ron, outraged, his ears now 
resembling curls of raw beef. “She’s going out with — 



Page | 444Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




my sister’s going — what d’you mean, Michael 
Corner?” 

“Well, that’s why he and his friends came, I think — 
well, they’re obviously interested in learning defense, 
but if Ginny hadn’t told Michael what was going on — 



“When did this — when did she — ?” 

“They met at the Yule Ball and they got together at 
the end of last year,” said Hermione composedly. They 
had turned into the High Street and she paused 
outside Scrivenshaft’s Quill Shop, where there was a 
handsome display of pheasant-feather quills in the 
window. “Hmm ... I could do with a new quill.” 

She turned into the shop. Harry and Ron followed 
her. 

“Which one was Michael Corner?” Ron demanded 
furiously. 

“The dark one,” said Hermione. 

“I didn’t like him,” said Ron at once. 

“Big surprise,” said Hermione under her breath. 

“But,” said Ron, following Hermione along a row of 
quills in copper pots, “I thought Ginny fancied Harry!” 

Hermione looked at him rather pityingly and shook 
her head. 

“Ginny used to fancy Harry, but she gave up on him 
months ago. Not that she doesn’t like you, of course,” 
she added kindly to Harry while she examined a long 
black-and-gold quill. 

Page | 445Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, whose head was still full of Cho’s parting wave, 
did not find this subject quite as interesting as Ron, 
who was positively quivering with indignation, but it 
did bring something home to him that until now he 
had not really registered. 

“So that’s why she talks now?” he asked Hermione. 
“She never used to talk in front of me.” 

“Exactly,” said Hermione. “Yes, I think I’ll have this 
one...” 

She went up to the counter and handed over fifteen 
Sickles and two Knuts, Ron still breathing down her 
neck. 

“Ron,” she said severely as she turned and trod on his 
feet, “this is exactly why Ginny hasn’t told you she’s 
seeing Michael, she knew you’d take it badly. So don’t 
harp on about it, for heaven’s sake.” 

“What d’you mean, who’s taking anything badly? I’m 
not going to harp on about anything ...” 

Ron continued to chunter under his breath all the 
way down the street. Hermione rolled her eyes at 
Harry and then said in an undertone, while Ron was 
muttering imprecations about Michael Corner, “And 
talking about Michael and Ginny . . . what about Cho 
and you?” 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry quickly. 

It was as though boiling water was rising rapidly 
inside him; a burning sensation that was causing his 
face to smart in the cold — had he been that obvious? 

“Well,” said Hermione, smiling slightly, “she just 
couldn’t keep her eyes off you, could she?” 

Page | 446Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had never before appreciated just how beautiful 
the village of Hogsmeade was. 



Page | 447Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





EDUCATIONAL DECREE NUMBER 
TWENTY-FOUR 

Harry felt happier for the rest of the weekend than he 
had done all term. He and Ron spent much of Sunday 
catching up with all their homework again, and 
although this could hardly be called fun, the last 
burst of autumn sunshine persisted, so rather than 
sitting hunched over tables in the common room, they 
took their work outside and lounged in the shade of a 
large beech tree on the edge of the lake. Hermione, 
who of course was up to date with all her work, 
brought more wool outside with her and bewitched 
her knitting needles so that they flashed and clicked 
in midair beside her, producing more hats and 
scarves. 

The knowledge that they were doing something to 
resist Umbridge and the Ministry, and that he was a 
key part of the rebellion, gave Harry a feeling of 
immense satisfaction. He kept reliving Saturday’s 
meeting in his mind: all those people, coming to him 
to learn Defense Against the Dark Arts . . . and the 
looks on their faces as they had heard some of the 



Page | 448Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



things he had done . . . and Cho praising his 
performance in the Triwizard Tournament... The 
knowledge that all those people did not think him a 
lying weirdo, but someone to be admired, buoyed him 
up so much that he was still cheerful on Monday 
morning, despite the imminent prospect of all his 
least favorite classes. 

He and Ron headed downstairs from their dormitory 
together, discussing Angelina’s idea that they were to 
work on a new move called the Sloth Grip Roll during 
that night’s Quidditch practice, and not until they 
were halfway across the sunlit common room did they 
notice the addition to the room that had already 
attracted the attention of a small group of people. 

A large sign had been affixed to the Gryffindor notice 
board, so large that it covered everything else on there 
— the lists of secondhand spellbooks for sale, the 
regular reminders of school rules from Argus Filch, 
the Quidditch team training schedule, the offers to 
barter certain Chocolate Frog cards for others, the 
Weasleys’ new advertisement for testers, the dates of 
the Hogsmeade weekends, and the lost-and-found 
notices. The new sign was printed in large black 
letters and there was a highly official-looking seal at 
the bottom beside a neat and curly signature. 



— BY ORDER OF — 

THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS 
