
“Good evening, Tom,” said Dumbledore easily. “Won’t 
you sit down?” 

“Thank you,” said Voldemort, and he took the seat to 
which Dumbledore had gestured — the very seat, by 
the looks of it, that Harry had just vacated in the 
present. “I heard that you had become headmaster,” 
he said, and his voice was slightly higher and colder 
than it had been. “A worthy choice.” 

“I am glad you approve,” said Dumbledore, smiling. 
“May I offer you a drink?” 

Page | 496 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“That would be welcome,” said Voldemort. “I have 
come a long way.” 

Dumbledore stood and swept over to the cabinet 
where he now kept the Pensieve, but which then was 
full of bottles. Having handed Voldemort a goblet of 
wine and poured one for himself, he returned to the 
seat behind his desk. 

“So, Tom ... to what do I owe the pleasure?” 

Voldemort did not answer at once, but merely sipped 
his wine. 

“They do not call me Tom’ anymore,” he said. “These 
days, I am known as — ” 

“I know what you are known as,” said Dumbledore, 
smiling pleasantly. “But to me, I’m afraid, you will 
always be Tom Riddle. It is one of the irritating things 
about old teachers. I am afraid that they never quite 
forget their charges’ youthful beginnings.” 

He raised his glass as though toasting Voldemort, 
whose face remained expressionless. Nevertheless, 
Harry felt the atmosphere in the room change subtly: 
Dumbledore’s refusal to use Voldemort’s chosen 
name was a refusal to allow Voldemort to dictate the 
terms of the meeting, and Harry could tell that 
Voldemort took it as such. 

“I am surprised you have remained here so long,” said 
Voldemort after a short pause. “I always wondered 
why a wizard such as yourself never wished to leave 
school.” 

“Well,” said Dumbledore, still smiling, “to a wizard 
such as myself, there can be nothing more important 
than passing on ancient skills, helping hone young 

Page | 497 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




minds. If I remember correctly, you once saw the 
attraction of teaching too.” 

“I see it still,” said Voldemort. “I merely wondered why 
you — who are so often asked for advice by the 
Ministry, and who have twice, I think, been offered 
the post of Minister — ” 

“Three times at the last count, actually,” said 
Dumbledore. “But the Ministry never attracted me as 
a career. Again, something we have in common, I 
think.” 

Voldemort inclined his head, unsmiling, and took 
another sip of wine. Dumbledore did not break the 
silence that stretched between them now, but waited, 
with a look of pleasant expectancy, for Voldemort to 
talk first. 

“I have returned,” he said, after a little while, “later, 
perhaps, than Professor Dippet expected ... but I have 
returned, nevertheless, to request again what he once 
told me I was too young to have. I have come to you to 
ask that you permit me to return to this castle, to 
teach. I think you must know that I have seen and 
done much since I left this place. I could show and 
tell your students things they can gain from no other 
wizard.” 

Dumbledore considered Voldemort over the top of his 
own goblet for a while before speaking. 

“Yes, I certainly do know that you have seen and done 
much since leaving us,” he said quietly. “Rumors of 
your doings have reached your old school, Tom. I 
should be sorry to believe half of them.” 



Page | 498 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort ’s expression remained impassive as he 
said, “Greatness inspires envy, envy engenders spite, 
spite spawns lies. You must know this, Dumbledore.” 

“You call it ‘greatness,’ what you have been doing, do 
you?” asked Dumbledore delicately. 

“Certainly,” said Voldemort, and his eyes seemed to 
burn red. “I have experimented; I have pushed the 
boundaries of magic further, perhaps, than they have 
ever been pushed — ” 

“Of some kinds of magic,” Dumbledore corrected him 
quietly. “Of some. Of others, you remain ... forgive me 
... woefully ignorant.” 

For the first time, Voldemort smiled. It was a taut 
leer, an evil thing, more threatening than a look of 
rage. 

“The old argument,” he said softly. “But nothing I 
have seen in the world has supported your famous 
pronouncements that love is more powerful than my 
kind of magic, Dumbledore.” 

“Perhaps you have been looking in the wrong places,” 
suggested Dumbledore. 

“Well, then, what better place to start my fresh 
researches than here, at Hogwarts?” said Voldemort. 
“Will you let me return? Will you let me share my 
knowledge with your students? I place myself and my 
talents at your disposal. I am yours to command.” 

Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. “And what will 
become of those whom you command? What will 
happen to those who call themselves — or so rumor 
has it — the Death Eaters?” 



Page | 499 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could tell that Voldemort had not expected 
Dumbledore to know this name; he saw Voldemort’s 
eyes flash red again and the slitlike nostrils flare. 

“My friends,” he said, after a moment’s pause, “will 
carry on without me, I am sure.” 

“I am glad to hear that you consider them friends,” 
said Dumbledore. “I was under the impression that 
they are more in the order of servants.” 

“You are mistaken,” said Voldemort. 

“Then if I were to go to the Hog’s Head tonight, I 
would not find a group of them — Nott, Rosier, 
Mulciber, Dolohov — awaiting your return? Devoted 
friends indeed, to travel this far with you on a snowy 
night, merely to wish you luck as you attempted to 
secure a teaching post.” 

There could be no doubt that Dumbledore ’s detailed 
knowledge of those with whom he was traveling was 
even less welcome to Voldemort; however, he rallied 
almost at once. 

“You are omniscient as ever, Dumbledore.” 

“Oh no, merely friendly with the local barmen,” said 
Dumbledore lightly. “Now, Tom ...” 

Dumbledore set down his empty glass and drew 
himself up in his seat, the tips of his fingers together 
in a very characteristic gesture. 

“Let us speak openly. Why have you come here 
tonight, surrounded by henchmen, to request a job 
we both know you do not want?” 



Page | 500 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort looked coldly surprised. “A job I do not 
want? On the contrary, Dumbledore, I want it very 
much.” 



“Oh, you want to come back to Hogwarts, but you do 
not want to teach any more than you wanted to when 
you were eighteen. What is it you’re after, Tom? Why 
not try an open request for once?” 

Voldemort sneered. “If you do not want to give me a 
job -” 



“Of course I don’t,” said Dumbledore. “And I don’t 
think for a moment you expected me to. Nevertheless, 
you came here, you asked, you must have had a 
purpose.” 

Voldemort stood up. He looked less like Tom Riddle 
than ever, his features thick with rage. “This is your 
final word?” 

“It is,” said Dumbledore, also standing. 

“Then we have nothing more to say to each other.” 

“No, nothing,” said Dumbledore, and a great sadness 
filled his face. “The time is long gone when I could 
frighten you with a burning wardrobe and force you 
to make repayment for your crimes. But I wish I 
could, Tom. ... I wish I could. ...” 

For a second, Harry was on the verge of shouting a 
pointless warning: He was sure that Voldemort’s hand 
had twitched toward his pocket and his wand; but 
then the moment had passed, Voldemort had turned 
away, the door was closing, and he was gone. 

Harry felt Dumbledore ’s hand close over his arm 
again and moments later, they were standing together 

Page | 501 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




on almost the same spot, but there was no snow 
building on the window ledge, and Dumbledore’s 
hand was blackened and dead-looking once more. 

“Why?” said Harry at once, looking up into 
Dumbledore’s face. “Why did he come back? Did you 
ever find out?” 

“I have ideas,” said Dumbledore, “but no more than 
that.” 

“What ideas, sir?” 

“I shall tell you, Harry, when you have retrieved that 
memory from Professor Slughorn,” said Dumbledore. 
“When you have that last piece of the jigsaw, 
everything will, I hope, be clear ... to both of us.” 

Harry was still burning with curiosity and even 
though Dumbledore had walked to the door and was 
holding it open for him, he did not move at once. 

“Was he after the Defense Against the Dark Arts job 
again, sir? He didn’t say. ...” 

“Oh, he definitely wanted the Defense Against the 
Dark Arts job,” said Dumbledore. “The aftermath of 
our little meeting proved that. You see, we have never 
been able to keep a Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher for longer than a year since I refused the post 
to Lord Voldemort.” 



Page | 502 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






THE UNKNOWABLE ROOM 

Harry wracked his brains over the next week as to 
how he was to persuade Slughorn to hand over the 
true memory, but nothing in the nature of a brain 
wave occurred and he was reduced to doing what he 
did increasingly these days when at a loss: poring 
over his Potions book, hoping that the Prince would 
have scribbled something useful in a margin, as he 
had done so many times before. 

“You won’t find anything in there,” said Hermione 
firmly, late on Sunday evening. 

“Don’t start, Hermione,” said Harry. “If it hadn’t been 
for the Prince, Ron wouldn’t be sitting here now.” 

“He would if you’d just listened to Snape in our first 
year,” said Hermione dismissively. 

Harry ignored her. He had just found an incantation 
(“ Sectumsempral”) scrawled in a margin above the 
intriguing words “For Enemies,” and was itching to 



Page | 503 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



try it out, but thought it best not to in front of 
Hermione. Instead, he surreptitiously folded down the 
corner of the page. 

They were sitting beside the fire in the common room; 
the only other people awake were fellow sixth years. 
There had been a certain amount of excitement earlier 
when they had come back from dinner to find a new 
sign on the notice board that announced the date for 
their Apparition Test. Those who would be seventeen 
on or before the first test date, the twenty-first of 
April, had the option of signing up for additional 
practice sessions, which would take place (heavily 
supervised) in Hogsmeade. 

Ron had panicked on reading this notice; he had still 
not managed to Apparate and feared he would not be 
ready for the test. Hermione, who had now achieved 
Apparition twice, was a little more confident, but 
Harry, who would not be seventeen for another four 
months, could not take the test whether ready or not. 

“At least you can Apparate, though!” said Ron tensely. 
“You’ll have no trouble come July!” 

“I’ve only done it once,” Harry reminded him; he had 
finally managed to disappear and rematerialize inside 
his hoop during their previous lesson. 

Having wasted a lot of time worrying aloud about 
Apparition, Ron was now struggling to finish a 
viciously difficult essay for Snape that Harry and 
Hermione had already completed. Harry fully 
expected to receive low marks on his, because he had 
disagreed with Snape on the best way to tackle 
dementors, but he did not care: Slughorn’s memory 
was the most important thing to him now. 



Page | 504 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm telling you, the stupid Prince isn’t going to be 
able to help you with this, Harry!” said Hermione, 
more loudly. “There’s only one way to force someone 
to do what you want, and that’s the Imperius Curse, 
which is illegal — ” 

“Yeah, I know that, thanks,” said Harry, not looking 
up from the book. “That’s why I’m looking for 
something different. Dumbledore says Veritaserum 
won’t do it, but there might be something else, a 
potion or a spell. ...” 

“You’re going about it the wrong way,” said Hermione. 
“Only you can get the memory, Dumbledore says. 

That must mean you can persuade Slughorn where 
other people can’t. It’s not a question of slipping him 
a potion, anyone could do that — ” 

“How d’you spell ‘belligerent’?” said Ron, shaking his 
quill very hard while staring at his parchment. “It 
can’t be B — U — M — ” 

“No, it isn’t,” said Hermione, pulling Ron’s essay 
toward her. “And ‘augury’ doesn’t begin O — R — G 
either. What kind of quill are you using?” 

“It’s one of Fred and George’s Spell-Check ones ... but 
I think the charm must be wearing off. ...” 

“Yes, it must,” said Hermione, pointing at the title of 
his essay, “because we were asked how we’d deal with 
dementors, not ‘Dugbogs,’ and I don’t remember you 
changing your name to ‘Roonil Wazlib’ either.” 

“Ah no!” said Ron, staring horror-struck at the 
parchment. “Don’t say I’ll have to write the whole 
thing out again!” 



Page | 505 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s okay, we can fix it,” said Hermione, pulling the 
essay toward her and taking out her wand. 

“I love you, Hermione,” said Ron, sinking back in his 
chair, rubbing his eyes wearily. 

Hermione turned faintly pink, but merely said, “Don’t 
let Lavender hear you saying that.” 

“I won’t,” said Ron into his hands. “Or maybe I will ... 
then she’ll ditch me ...” 

“Why don’t you ditch her if you want to finish it?” 
asked Harry. 

“You haven’t ever chucked anyone, have you?” said 
Ron. “You and Cho just — ” 

“Sort of fell apart, yeah,” said Harry 

“Wish that would happen with me and Lavender,” 
said Ron gloomily, watching Hermione silently 
tapping each of his misspelled words with the end of 
her wand, so that they corrected themselves on the 
page. “But the more I hint I want to finish it, the 
tighter she holds on. It’s like going out with the giant 
squid.” 

“There,” said Hermione, some twenty minutes later, 
handing back Ron’s essay. 

“Thanks a million,” said Ron. “Can I borrow your quill 
for the conclusion?” 

Harry, who had found nothing useful in the Half- 
Blood Prince’s notes so far, looked around; the three 
of them were now the only ones left in the common 
room, Seamus having just gone up to bed cursing 
Snape and his essay. The only sounds were the 
Page | 506 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




crackling of the fire and Ron scratching out one last 
paragraph on dementors using Hermione’s quill. 

Harry had just closed the Half-Blood Prince’s book, 
yawning, when — 

Crack. 

Hermione let out a little shriek; Ron spilled ink all 
over his freshly completed essay, and Harry said, 
“Kreacher!” 

The house-elf bowed low and addressed his own 
gnarled toes. 

“Master said he wanted regular reports on what the 
Malfoy boy is doing, so Kreacher has come to give — ” 

Crack. 

Dobby appeared alongside Kreacher, his tea-cozy hat 
askew. 

“Dobby has been helping too, Harry Potter!” he 
squeaked, casting Kreacher a resentful look. “And 
Kreacher ought to tell Dobby when he is coming to 
see Harry Potter so they can make their reports 
together!” 

“What is this?” asked Hermione, still looking shocked 
by these sudden appearances. “What’s going on, 
Harry?” 

Harry hesitated before answering, because he had not 
told Hermione about setting Kreacher and Dobby to 
tail Malfoy; house-elves were always such a touchy 
subject with her. 

“Well ... they’ve been following Malfoy for me,” he 
said. 

Page | 507 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Night and day,” croaked Kreacher. 

“Dobby has not slept for a week, Harry Potter!” said 
Dobby proudly, swaying where he stood. 

Hermione looked indignant. 

“You haven’t slept, Dobby? But surely, Harry, you 
didn’t tell him not to — ” 

“No, of course I didn’t,” said Harry quickly. “Dobby, 
you can sleep, all right? But has either of you found 
out anything?” he hastened to ask, before Hermione 
could intervene again. 

“Master Malfoy moves with a nobility that befits his 
pure blood,” croaked Kreacher at once. “His features 
recall the fine bones of my mistress and his manners 
are those of — ” 

“Draco Malfoy is a bad boy!” squeaked Dobby angrily. 
“A bad boy who — who — ” 

He shuddered from the tassel of his tea cozy to the 
toes of his socks and then ran at the fire, as though 
about to dive into it; Harry, to whom this was not 
entirely unexpected, caught him around the middle 
and held him fast. For a few seconds Dobby 
struggled, then went limp. 

“Thank you, Harry Potter,” he panted. “Dobby still 
finds it difficult to speak ill of his old masters. ...” 

Harry released him; Dobby straightened his tea cozy 
and said defiantly to Kreacher, “But Kreacher should 
know that Draco Malfoy is not a good master to a 
house-elf!” 



Page | 508 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, we don’t need to hear about you being in love 
with Malfoy,” Harry told Kreacher. “Let’s fast forward 
to where he’s actually been going.” 

Kreacher bowed again, looking furious, and then said, 
“Master Malfoy eats in the Great Hall, he sleeps in a 
dormitory in the dungeons, he attends his classes in 
a variety of — ” 

“Dobby, you tell me,” said Harry, cutting across 
Kreacher. “Has he been going anywhere he shouldn’t 
have?” 

“Harry Potter, sir,” squeaked Dobby, his great orblike 
eyes shining in the firelight, “the Malfoy boy is 
breaking no rules that Dobby can discover, but he is 
still keen to avoid detection. He has been making 
regular visits to the seventh floor with a variety of 
other students, who keep watch for him while he 
enters — ” 

“The Room of Requirement!” said Harry, smacking 
himself hard on the forehead with Advanced Potion- 
Making. Hermione and Ron stared at him. “That’s 
where he’s been sneaking off to! That’s where he’s 
doing ... whatever he’s doing! And I bet that’s why 
he’s been disappearing off the map — come to think 
of it, I’ve never seen the Room of Requirement on 
there!” 

“Maybe the Marauders never knew the room was 
there,” said Ron. 

“I think it’ll be part of the magic of the room,” said 
Hermione. “If you need it to be Unplottable, it will be.” 

“Dobby, have you managed to get in to have a look at 
what Malfoy’s doing?” said Harry eagerly. 



Page | 509 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No, Harry Potter, that is impossible,” said Dobby. 



“No, it’s not,” said Harry at once. “Malfoy got into our 
headquarters there last year, so I’ll be able to get in 
and spy on him, no problem.” 

“But I don’t think you will, Harry,” said Hermione 
slowly. “Malfoy already knew exactly how we were 
using the room, didn’t he, because that stupid 
Marietta had blabbed. He needed the room to become 
the headquarters of the D.A., so it did. But you don’t 
know what the room becomes when Malfoy goes in 
there, so you don’t know what to ask it to transform 
into.” 

“There’ll be a way around that,” said Harry 
dismissively. “You’ve done brilliantly, Dobby.” 

“Kreacher’s done well too,” said Hermione kindly; but 
far from looking grateful, Kreacher averted his huge, 
bloodshot eyes and croaked at the ceiling, “The 
Mudblood is speaking to Kreacher, Kreacher will 
pretend he cannot hear — ” 

“Get out of it,” Harry snapped at him, and Kreacher 
made one last deep bow and Disapparated. “You’d 
better go and get some sleep too, Dobby.” 

“Thank you, Harry Potter, sir!” squeaked Dobby 
happily, and he too vanished. 

“How good’s this?” said Harry enthusiastically, 
turning to Ron and Hermione the moment the room 
was elf-free again. “We know where Malfoy’s going! 
We’ve got him cornered now!” 

“Yeah, it’s great,” said Ron glumly, who was 
attempting to mop up the sodden mass of ink that 
had recently been an almost completed essay. 

Page | 510 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




Hermione pulled it toward her and began siphoning 
the ink off with her wand. 

“But what’s all this about him going up there with a 
Variety of students’?” said Hermione. “How many 
people are in on it? You wouldn’t think he’d trust lots 
of them to know what he’s doing. ...” 

“Yeah, that is weird,” said Harry, frowning. “I heard 
him telling Crabbe it wasn’t Crabbe’s business what 
he was doing ... so what’s he telling all these ... all 
these ...” 

Harry’s voice tailed away; he was staring at the fire. 

“God, I’ve been stupid,” he said quietly. “It’s obvious, 
isn’t it? There was a great vat of it down in the 
dungeon. ... He could’ve nicked some any time during 
that lesson. ...” 

“Nicked what?” said Ron. 

“Polyjuice Potion. He stole some of the Polyjuice 
Potion Slughorn showed us in our first Potions 
lesson. ... There aren’t a whole variety of students 
standing guard for Malfoy ... it’s just Crabbe and 
Goyle as usual. ... Yeah, it all fits!” said Harry, 
jumping up and starting to pace in front of the fire. 
“They’re stupid enough to do what they’re told even if 
he won’t tell them what he’s up to ... but he doesn’t 
want them to be seen lurking around outside the 
Room of Requirement, so he’s got them taking 
Polyjuice to make them look like other people. ... 
Those two girls I saw him with when he missed 
Quidditch — ha! Crabbe and Goyle!” 

“Do you mean to say,” said Hermione in a hushed 
voice, “that that little girl whose scales I repaired — ?” 



Page | 511 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, of course!” said Harry loudly, staring at her. 
“Of course! Malfoy must’ve been inside the room at 
the time, so she — what am I talking about? — he 
dropped the scales to tell Malfoy not to come out, 
because there was someone there! And there was that 
girl who dropped the toadspawn too! We’ve been 
walking past him all the time and not realizing it!” 

“He’s got Crabbe and Goyle transforming into girls?” 
guffawed Ron. “Blimey ... No wonder they don’t look 
too happy these days. ... I’m surprised they don’t tell 
him to stuff it. ...” 

“Well, they wouldn’t, would they, if he’s shown them 
his Dark Mark?” said Harry. 

“Hmmm ... the Dark Mark we don’t know exists,” said 
Hermione skeptically, rolling up Ron’s dried essay 
before it could come to any more harm and handing it 
to him. 

“Well see,” said Harry confidently. 

“Yes, we will,” Hermione said, getting to her feet and 
stretching. “But, Harry, before you get all excited, I 
still don’t think you’ll be able to get into the Room of 
Requirement without knowing what’s there first. And 
I don’t think you should forget” — she heaved her bag 
onto her shoulder and gave him a very serious look — 
“that what you’re supposed to be concentrating on is 
getting that memory from Slughorn. Good night.” 

Harry watched her go, feeling slightly disgruntled. 
Once the door to the girls’ dormitories had closed 
behind her he rounded on Ron. 

“What d’you think?” 



Page | 512 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Wish I could Disapparate like a house-elf,” said Ron, 
staring at the spot where Dobby had vanished. “I’d 
have that Apparition Test in the bag.” 

Harry did not sleep well that night. He lay awake for 
what felt like hours, wondering how Malfoy was using 
the Room of Requirement and what he, Harry, would 
see when he went in there the following day, for 
whatever Hermione said, Harry was sure that if 
Malfoy had been able to see the headquarters of the 
D.A., he would be able to see Malfoy ’s ... what could it 
be? A meeting place? A hideout? A storeroom? A 
workshop? Harry’s mind worked feverishly and his 
dreams, when he finally fell asleep, were broken and 
disturbed by images of Malfoy, who turned into 
Slughorn, who turned into Snape. ... 

Harry was in a state of great anticipation over 
breakfast the following morning; he had a free period 
before Defense Against the Dark Arts and was 
determined to spend it trying to get into the Room of 
Requirement. Hermione was rather ostentatiously 
showing no interest in his whispered plans for forcing 
entry into the room, which irritated Harry, because he 
thought she might be a lot of help if she wanted to. 

“Look,” he said quietly, leaning forward and putting a 
hand on the Daily Prophet, which she had just 
removed from a post owl, to stop her from opening it 
and vanishing behind it. “I haven’t forgotten about 
Slughorn, but I haven’t got a clue how to get that 
memory off him, and until I get a brain wave why 
shouldn’t I find out what Malfoy’s doing?” 

“I’ve already told you, you need to persuade 
Slughorn,” said Hermione. “It’s not a question of 
tricking him or bewitching him, or Dumbledore could 
have done it in a second. Instead of messing around 
outside the Room of Requirement” — she jerked the 
Page | 513 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




Prophet out from under Harry’s hand and unfolded it 
to look at the front page — “you should go and find 
Slughorn and start appealing to his better nature.” 

“Anyone we know — ?” asked Ron, as Hermione 
scanned the headlines. 

“Yes!” said Hermione, causing both Harry and Ron to 
gag on their breakfast. “But it’s all right, he’s not 
dead — it’s Mundungus, he’s been arrested and sent 
to Azkaban! Something to do with impersonating an 
Inferius during an attempted burglary . . . and 
someone called Octavius Pepper has vanished. ... Oh, 
and how horrible, a nine-year-old boy has been 
arrested for trying to kill his grandparents, they think 
he was under the Imperius Curse. ...” 

They finished their breakfast in silence. Hermione set 
off immediately for Ancient Runes; Ron for the 
common room, where he still had to finish his 
conclusion on Snape’s dementor essay; and Harry for 
the corridor on the seventh floor and the stretch of 
wall opposite the tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy 
teaching trolls to do ballet. 

Harry slipped on his Invisibility Cloak once he had 
found an empty passage, but he need not have 
bothered. When he reached his destination he found 
it deserted. Harry was not sure whether his chances 
of getting inside the room were better with Malfoy 
inside it or out, but at least his first attempt was not 
going to be complicated by the presence of Crabbe or 
Goyle pretending to be an eleven-year-old girl. 

He closed his eyes as he approached the place where 
the Room of Requirement’s door was concealed. He 
knew what he had to do; he had become most 
accomplished at it last year. Concentrating with all 
his might he thought, I need to see what Malfoy ’s 
Page | 514 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




doing in here. ... I need to see what Malfoy’s doing in 
here. ... I need to see what Malfoy’s doing in here. ... 

Three times he walked past the door; then, his heart 
pounding with excitement, he opened his eyes and 
faced it — 

But he was still looking at a stretch of mundanely 
blank wall. 

He moved forward and gave it an experimental push. 
The stone remained solid and unyielding. 

“Okay,” said Harry aloud. “Okay ... I thought the 
wrong thing. ...” 

He pondered for a moment then set off again, eyes 
closed, concentrating as hard as he could. 

I need to see the place where Malfoy keeps coming 
secretly. ... I need to see the place where Malfoy keeps 
coming secretly. . . . 

After three walks past, he opened his eyes 
expectantly. 

There was no door. 

“Oh, come off it,” he told the wall irritably. “That was 
a clear instruction. ... Fine ...” 

He thought hard for several minutes before striding 
off once more. 

I need you to become the place you become for Draco 
Malfoy. ... 

He did not immediately open his eyes when he had 
finished his patrolling; he was listening hard, as 

Page | 515 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




though he might hear the door pop into existence. He 
heard nothing, however, except the distant twittering 
of birds outside. He opened his eyes. 

There was still no door. 

Harry swore. Someone screamed. He looked around to 
see a gaggle of first years running back around the 
corner, apparently under the impression that they 
had just encountered a particularly foulmouthed 
ghost. 

Harry tried every variation of “I need to see what 
Draco Malfoy is doing inside you” that he could think 
of for a whole hour, at the end of which he was forced 
to concede that Hermione might have had a point: 

The room simply did not want to open for him. 
Frustrated and annoyed, he set off for Defense 
Against the Dark Arts, pulling off his Invisibility Cloak 
and stuffing it into his bag as he went. 

“Late again, Potter,” said Snape coldly, as Harry 
hurried into the candlelit classroom. “Ten points from 
Gryffindor.” 

Harry scowled at Snape as he flung himself into the 
seat beside Ron; half the class was still on its feet, 
taking out books and organizing their things; he 
could not be much later than any of them. 

“Before we start, I want your dementor essays,” said 
Snape, waving his wand carelessly, so that twenty- 
five scrolls of parchment soared into the air and 
landed in a neat pile on his desk. “And I hope for your 
sakes they are better than the tripe I had to endure 
on resisting the Imperius Curse. Now, if you will all 
open your books to page — what is it, Mr. Finnigan?” 



Page | 516 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Sir,” said Seamus, “I’ve been wondering, how do you 
tell the difference between an Inferius and a ghost? 
Because there was something in the paper about an 
Inferius — ” 

“No, there wasn’t,” said Snape in a bored voice. 

“But sir, I heard people talking — ” 

“If you had actually read the article in question, Mr. 
Finnigan, you would have known that the so-called 
Inferius was nothing but a smelly sneak thief by the 
name of Mundungus Fletcher.” 

“I thought Snape and Mundungus were on the same 
side,” muttered Harry to Ron and Hermione. 
“Shouldn’t he be upset Mundungus has been arrest 



“But Potter seems to have a lot to say on the subject,” 
said Snape, pointing suddenly at the back of the 
room, his black eyes fixed on Harry “Let us ask Potter 
how we would tell the difference between an Inferius 
and a ghost.” 

The whole class looked around at Harry, who hastily 
tried to recall what Dumbledore had told him the 
night that they had gone to visit Slughorn. 

“Er — well — ghosts are transparent — ” he said. 

“Oh, very good,” interrupted Snape, his lip curling. 
“Yes, it is easy to see that nearly six years of magical 
education have not been wasted on you, Potter. 
‘Ghosts are transparent.’ ” 

Pansy Parkinson let out a high-pitched giggle. Several 
other people were smirking. Harry took a deep breath 
and continued calmly, though his insides were 

Page | 517 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




boiling, “Yeah, ghosts are transparent, but Inferi are 
dead bodies, aren’t they? So they’d be solid — ” 

“A five-year-old could have told us as much,” sneered 
Snape. “The Inferius is a corpse that has been 
reanimated by a Dark wizard’s spells. It is not alive, it 
is merely used like a puppet to do the wizard’s 
bidding. A ghost, as I trust that you are all aware by 
now, is the imprint of a departed soul left upon the 
earth ... and of course, as Potter so wisely tells us, 
transparent.” 

“Well, what Harry said is the most useful if we’re 
trying to tell them apart!” said Ron. “When we come 
face-to-face with one down a dark alley, we’re going to 
be having a shufti to see if it’s solid, aren’t we, we’re 
not going to be asking, ‘Excuse me, are you the 
imprint of a departed soul?’ ” 

There was a ripple of laughter, instantly quelled by 
the look Snape gave the class. 

“Another ten points from Gryffindor,” said Snape. “I 
would expect nothing more sophisticated from you, 
Ronald Weasley, the boy so solid he cannot Apparate 
half an inch across a room.” 

“IVo!” whispered Hermione, grabbing Harry’s arm as 
he opened his mouth furiously. “There’s no point, 
you’ll just end up in detention again, leave it!” 

“Now open your books to page two hundred and 
thirteen,” said Snape, smirking a little, “and read the 
first two paragraphs on the Cruciatus Curse. ...” 

Ron was very subdued all through the class. When 
the bell sounded at the end of the lesson, Lavender 
caught up with Ron and Harry (Hermione 
mysteriously melted out of sight as she approached) 

Page | 518 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




and abused Snape hotly for his jibe about Ron’s 
