      difficult to see how else she could truthfully have spoken.

      It was not a subject which the Forsytes could talk about even
      among themselves—to use the word Soames had invented to
      characterize to himself the situation, it was “subterranean.”

      Yet, within a week of Mrs. MacAnder’s encounter in Richmond Park,
      to all of them—save Timothy, from whom it was carefully kept—to
      James on his domestic beat from the Poultry to Park Lane, to
      George the wild one, on his daily adventure from the bow window
      at the Haversnake to the billiard room at the “Red Pottle,” was
      it known that “those two” had gone to extremes.

      George (it was he who invented many of those striking expressions
      still current in fashionable circles) voiced the sentiment more
      accurately than any one when he said to his brother Eustace that
      “the Buccaneer” was “going it”. he expected Soames was about “fed
      up.”

      It was felt that he must be, and yet, what could be done? He
      ought perhaps to take steps; but to take steps would be
      deplorable.

      Without an open scandal which they could not see their way to
      recommending, it was difficult to see what steps could be taken.
      In this impasse, the only thing was to say nothing to Soames, and
      nothing to each other; in fact, to pass it over.

      By displaying towards Irene a dignified coldness, some impression
      might be made upon her; but she was seldom now to be seen, and
      there seemed a slight difficulty in seeking her out on purpose to
      show her coldness. Sometimes in the privacy of his bedroom James
      would reveal to Emily the real suffering that his son’s
      misfortune caused him.

      “_I_ can’t tell,” he would say; “it worries me out of my life.
      There’ll be a scandal, and that’ll do him no good. I shan’t say
      anything to him. There might be nothing in it. What do you think?
      She’s very artistic, they tell me. What? Oh, you’re a ‘regular
      Juley’! Well, I don’t know; I expect the worst. This is what
      comes of having no children. I knew how it would be from the
      first. They never told me they didn’t mean to have any
      children—nobody tells me anything!”

      On his knees by the side of the bed, his eyes open and fixed with
      worry, he would breathe into the counterpane. Clad in his
      nightshirt, his neck poked forward, his back rounded, he
      resembled some long white bird.

      “Our Father—,” he repeated, turning over and over again the
      thought of this possible scandal.

      Like old Jolyon, he, too, at the bottom of his heart set the
      blame of the tragedy down to family interference. What business
      had that lot—he began to think of the Stanhope Gate branch,
      including young Jolyon and his daughter, as “that lot”—to
      introduce a person like this Bosinney into the family? (He had
      heard George’s soubriquet, “The Buccaneer,” but he could make
      nothing of that—the young man was an architect.)

      He began to feel that his brother Jolyon, to whom he had always
      looked up and on whose opinion he had relied, was not quite what
      he had expected.

      Not having his eldest brother’s force of character, he was more
      sad than angry. His great comfort was to go to Winifred’s, and
      take the little Darties in his carriage over to Kensington
      Gardens, and there, by the Round Pond, he could often be seen
      walking with his eyes fixed anxiously on little Publius Dartie’s
      sailing-boat, which he had himself freighted with a penny, as
      though convinced that it would never again come to shore; while
      little Publius—who, James delighted to say, was not a bit like
      his father skipping along under his lee, would try to get him to
      bet another that it never would, having found that it always did.
      And James would make the bet; he always paid—sometimes as many as
      three or four pennies in the afternoon, for the game seemed never
      to pall on little Publius—and always in paying he said: “Now,
      that’s for your money-box. Why, you’re getting quite a rich man!”
      The thought of his little grandson’s growing wealth was a real
      pleasure to him. But little Publius knew a sweet-shop, and a
      trick worth two of that.

      And they would walk home across the Park, James’ figure, with
      high shoulders and absorbed and worried face, exercising its
      tall, lean protectorship, pathetically unregarded, over the
      robust child-figures of Imogen and little Publius.

      But those Gardens and that Park were not sacred to James.
      Forsytes and tramps, children and lovers, rested and wandered day
      after day, night after night, seeking one and all some freedom
      from labour, from the reek and turmoil of the streets.

      The leaves browned slowly, lingering with the sun and summer-like
      warmth of the nights.

      On Saturday, October 5, the sky that had been blue all day
      deepened after sunset to the bloom of purple grapes. There was no
      moon, and a clear dark, like some velvety garment, was wrapped
      around the trees, whose thinned branches, resembling plumes,
      stirred not in the still, warm air. All London had poured into
      the Park, draining the cup of summer to its dregs.

      Couple after couple, from every gate, they streamed along the
      paths and over the burnt grass, and one after another, silently
      out of the lighted spaces, stole into the shelter of the feathery
      trees, where, blotted against some trunk, or under the shadow of
      shrubs, they were lost to all but themselves in the heart of the
      soft darkness.

      To fresh-comers along the paths, these forerunners formed but
      part of that passionate dusk, whence only a strange murmur, like
      the confused beating of hearts, came forth. But when that murmur
      reached each couple in the lamp-light their voices wavered, and
      ceased; their arms enlaced, their eyes began seeking, searching,
      probing the blackness. Suddenly, as though drawn by invisible
      hands, they, too, stepped over the railing, and, silent as
      shadows, were gone from the light.

      The stillness, enclosed in the far, inexorable roar of the town,
      was alive with the myriad passions, hopes, and loves of
      multitudes of struggling human atoms; for in spite of the
      disapproval of that great body of Forsytes, the Municipal
      Council—to whom Love had long been considered, next to the Sewage
      Question, the gravest danger to the community—a process was going
      on that night in the Park, and in a hundred other parks, without
      which the thousand factories, churches, shops, taxes, and drains,
      of which they were custodians, were as arteries without blood, a
      man without a heart.

      The instincts of self-forgetfulness, of passion, and of love,
      hiding under the trees, away from the trustees of their
      remorseless enemy, the “sense of property,” were holding a
      stealthy revel, and Soames, returning from Bayswater—for he had
      been alone to dine at Timothy’s walking home along the water,
      with his mind upon that coming lawsuit, had the blood driven from
      his heart by a low laugh and the sound of kisses. He thought of
      writing to _The Times_ the next morning, to draw the attention of
      the Editor to the condition of our parks. He did not, however,
      for he had a horror of seeing his name in print.

      But starved as he was, the whispered sounds in the stillness, the
      half-seen forms in the dark, acted on him like some morbid
      stimulant. He left the path along the water and stole under the
      trees, along the deep shadow of little plantations, where the
      boughs of chestnut trees hung their great leaves low, and there
      was blacker refuge, shaping his course in circles which had for
      their object a stealthy inspection of chairs side by side,
      against tree-trunks, of enlaced lovers, who stirred at his
      approach.

      Now he stood still on the rise overlooking the Serpentine, where,
      in full lamp-light, black against the silver water, sat a couple
      who never moved, the woman’s face buried on the man’s neck—a
      single form, like a carved emblem of passion, silent and
      unashamed.

      And, stung by the sight, Soames hurried on deeper into the shadow
      of the trees.

      In this search, who knows what he thought and what he sought?
      Bread for hunger—light in darkness? Who knows what he expected to
      find—impersonal knowledge of the human heart—the end of his
      private subterranean tragedy—for, again, who knew, but that each
      dark couple, unnamed, unnameable, might not be he and she?

      But it could not be such knowledge as this that he was
      seeking—the wife of Soames Forsyte sitting in the Park like a
      common wench! Such thoughts were inconceivable; and from tree to
      tree, with his noiseless step, he passed.

      Once he was sworn at; once the whisper, “If only it could always
      be like this!” sent the blood flying again from his heart, and he
      waited there, patient and dogged, for the two to move. But it was
      only a poor thin slip of a shop-girl in her draggled blouse who
      passed him, clinging to her lover’s arm.

      A hundred other lovers too whispered that hope in the stillness
      of the trees, a hundred other lovers clung to each other.

      But shaking himself with sudden disgust, Soames returned to the
      path, and left that seeking for he knew not what.




      CHAPTER III MEETING AT THE BOTANICAL

      Young Jolyon, whose circumstances were not those of a Forsyte,
      found at times a difficulty in sparing the money needful for
      those country jaunts and researches into Nature, without having
      prosecuted which no watercolour artist ever puts brush to paper.

      He was frequently, in fact, obliged to take his colour-box into
      the Botanical Gardens, and there, on his stool, in the shade of a
      monkey-puzzler or in the lee of some India-rubber plant, he would
      spend long hours sketching.

      An Art critic who had recently been looking at his work had
      delivered himself as follows:

      “In a way your drawings are very good; tone and colour, in some
      of them certainly quite a feeling for Nature. But, you see,
      they’re so scattered; you’ll never get the public to look at
      them. Now, if you’d taken a definite subject, such as ‘London by
      Night,’ or ‘The Crystal Palace in the Spring,’ and made a regular
      series, the public would have known at once what they were
      looking at. I can’t lay too much stress upon that. All the men
      who are making great names in Art, like Crum Stone or Bleeder,
      are making them by avoiding the unexpected; by specializing and
      putting their works all in the same pigeon-hole, so that the
      public know at once where to go. And this stands to reason, for
      if a man’s a collector he doesn’t want people to smell at the
      canvas to find out whom his pictures are by; he wants them to be
      able to say at once, ‘A capital Forsyte!’ It is all the more
      important for you to be careful to choose a subject that they can
      lay hold of on the spot, since there’s no very marked originality
      in your style.”

      Young Jolyon, standing by the little piano, where a bowl of dried
      rose leaves, the only produce of the garden, was deposited on a
      bit of faded damask, listened with his dim smile.

      Turning to his wife, who was looking at the speaker with an angry
      expression on her thin face, he said:

      “You see, dear?”

      “I do _not_,” she answered in her staccato voice, that still had
      a little foreign accent; “your style _has_ originality.”

      The critic looked at her, smiled’ deferentially, and said no
      more. Like everyone else, he knew their history.

      The words bore good fruit with young Jolyon; they were contrary
      to all that he believed in, to all that he theoretically held
      good in his Art, but some strange, deep instinct moved him
      against his will to turn them to profit.

      He discovered therefore one morning that an idea had come to him
      for making a series of watercolour drawings of London. How the
      idea had arisen he could not tell; and it was not till the
      following year, when he had completed and sold them at a very
      fair price, that in one of his impersonal moods, he found himself
      able to recollect the Art critic, and to discover in his own
      achievement another proof that he was a Forsyte.

      He decided to commence with the Botanical Gardens, where he had
      already made so many studies, and chose the little artificial
      pond, sprinkled now with an autumn shower of red and yellow
      leaves, for though the gardeners longed to sweep them off, they
      could not reach them with their brooms. The rest of the gardens
      they swept bare enough, removing every morning Nature’s rain of
      leaves; piling them in heaps, whence from slow fires rose the
      sweet, acrid smoke that, like the cuckoo’s note for spring, the
      scent of lime trees for the summer, is the true emblem of the
      fall. The gardeners’ tidy souls could not abide the gold and
      green and russet pattern on the grass. The gravel paths must lie
      unstained, ordered, methodical, without knowledge of the
      realities of life, nor of that slow and beautiful decay which
      flings crowns underfoot to star the earth with fallen glories,
      whence, as the cycle rolls, will leap again wild spring.

      Thus each leaf that fell was marked from the moment when it
      fluttered a good-bye and dropped, slow turning, from its twig.

      But on that little pond the leaves floated in peace, and praised
      Heaven with their hues, the sunlight haunting over them.

      And so young Jolyon found them.

      Coming there one morning in the middle of October, he was
      disconcerted to find a bench about twenty paces from his stand
      occupied, for he had a proper horror of anyone seeing him at
      work.

      A lady in a velvet jacket was sitting there, with her eyes fixed
      on the ground. A flowering laurel, however, stood between, and,
      taking shelter behind this, young Jolyon prepared his easel.

      His preparations were leisurely; he caught, as every true artist
      should, at anything that might delay for a moment the effort of
      his work, and he found himself looking furtively at this unknown
      dame.

      Like his father before him, he had an eye for a face. This face
      was charming!

      He saw a rounded chin nestling in a cream ruffle, a delicate face
      with large dark eyes and soft lips. A black “picture” hat
      concealed the hair; her figure was lightly poised against the
      back of the bench, her knees were crossed; the tip of a
      patent-leather shoe emerged beneath her skirt. There was
      something, indeed, inexpressibly dainty about the person of this
      lady, but young Jolyon’s attention was chiefly riveted by the
      look on her face, which reminded him of his wife. It was as
      though its owner had come into contact with forces too strong for
      her. It troubled him, arousing vague feelings of attraction and
      chivalry. Who was she? And what doing there, alone?

      Two young gentlemen of that peculiar breed, at once forward and
      shy, found in the Regent’s Park, came by on their way to lawn
      tennis, and he noted with disapproval their furtive stares of
      admiration. A loitering gardener halted to do something
      unnecessary to a clump of pampas grass; he, too, wanted an excuse
      for peeping. A gentleman, old, and, by his hat, a professor of
      horticulture, passed three times to scrutinize her long and
      stealthily, a queer expression about his lips.

      With all these men young Jolyon felt the same vague irritation.
      She looked at none of them, yet was he certain that every man who
      passed would look at her like that.

      Her face was not the face of a sorceress, who in every look holds
      out to men the offer of pleasure; it had none of the “devil’s
      beauty” so highly prized among the first Forsytes of the land;
      neither was it of that type, no less adorable, associated with
      the box of chocolate; it was not of the spiritually passionate,
      or passionately spiritual order, peculiar to house-decoration and
      modern poetry; nor did it seem to promise to the playwright
      material for the production of the interesting and neurasthenic
      figure, who commits suicide in the last act.

      In shape and colouring, in its soft persuasive passivity, its
      sensuous purity, this woman’s face reminded him of Titian’s
      “Heavenly Love,” a reproduction of which hung over the sideboard
      in his dining-room. And her attraction seemed to be in this soft
      passivity, in the feeling she gave that to pressure she must
      yield.

      For what or whom was she waiting, in the silence, with the trees
      dropping here and there a leaf, and the thrushes strutting close
      on grass, touched with the sparkle of the autumn rime? Then her
      charming face grew eager, and, glancing round, with almost a
      lover’s jealousy, young Jolyon saw Bosinney striding across the
      grass.

      Curiously he watched the meeting, the look in their eyes, the
      long clasp of their hands. They sat down close together, linked
      for all their outward discretion. He heard the rapid murmur of
      their talk; but what they said he could not catch.

      He had rowed in the galley himself! He knew the long hours of
      waiting and the lean minutes of a half-public meeting; the
      tortures of suspense that haunt the unhallowed lover.

      It required, however, but a glance at their two faces to see that
      this was none of those affairs of a season that distract men and
      women about town; none of those sudden appetites that wake up
      ravening, and are surfeited and asleep again in six weeks. This
      was the real thing! This was what had happened to himself! Out of
      this anything might come!

      Bosinney was pleading, and she so quiet, so soft, yet immovable
      in her passivity, sat looking over the grass.

      Was he the man to carry her off, that tender, passive being, who
      would never stir a step for herself? Who had given him all
      herself, and would die for him, but perhaps would never run away
      with him!

      It seemed to young Jolyon that he could hear her saying: “But,
      darling, it would ruin you!” For he himself had experienced to
      the full the gnawing fear at the bottom of each woman’s heart
      that she is a drag on the man she loves.

      And he peeped at them no more; but their soft, rapid talk came to
      his ears, with the stuttering song of some bird who seemed trying
      to remember the notes of spring: Joy—tragedy? Which—which?

      And gradually their talk ceased; long silence followed.

      “And where does Soames come in?” young Jolyon thought. “People
      think she is concerned about the sin of deceiving her husband!
      Little they know of women! She’s eating, after starvation—taking
      her revenge! And Heaven help her—for he’ll take his.”

      He heard the swish of silk, and, spying round the laurel, saw
      them walking away, their hands stealthily joined....

      At the end of July old Jolyon had taken his grand-daughter to the
      mountains; and on that visit (the last they ever paid) June
      recovered to a great extent her health and spirits. In the
      hotels, filled with British Forsytes—for old Jolyon could not
      bear a “set of Germans,” as he called all foreigners—she was
      looked upon with respect—the only grand-daughter of that
      fine-looking, and evidently wealthy, old Mr. Forsyte. She did not
      mix freely with people—to mix freely with people was not Jun’s
      habit—but she formed some friendships, and notably one in the
      Rhone Valley, with a French girl who was dying of consumption.

      Determining at once that her friend should not die, she forgot,
      in the institution of a campaign against Death, much of her own
      trouble.

      Old Jolyon watched the new intimacy with relief and disapproval;
      for this additional proof that her life was to be passed amongst
      “lame ducks” worried him. Would she never make a friendship or
      take an interest in something that would be of real benefit to
      her?

      “Taking up with a parcel of foreigners,” he called it. He often,
      however, brought home grapes or roses, and presented them to
      “Mam’zelle” with an ingratiating twinkle.

      Towards the end of September, in spite of Jun’s disapproval,
      Mademoiselle Vigor breathed her last in the little hotel at St.
      Luc, to which they had moved her; and June took her defeat so
      deeply to heart that old Jolyon carried her away to Paris. Here,
      in contemplation of the “Venus de Milo” and the “Madeleine,” she
      shook off her depression, and when, towards the middle of
      October, they returned to town, her grandfather believed that he
      had effected a cure.

      No sooner, however, had they established themselves in Stanhope
      Gate than he perceived to his dismay a return of her old absorbed
      and brooding manner. She would sit, staring in front of her, her
      chin on her hand, like a little Norse spirit, grim and intent,
      while all around in the electric light, then just installed,
      shone the great, drawing-room brocaded up to the frieze, full of
      furniture from Baple and Pullbred’s. And in the huge gilt mirror
      were reflected those Dresden china groups of young men in tight
      knee breeches, at the feet of full-bosomed ladies nursing on
      their laps pet lambs, which old Jolyon had bought when he was a
      bachelor and thought so highly of in these days of degenerate
      taste. He was a man of most open mind, who, more than any Forsyte
      of them all, had moved with the times, but he could never forget
      that he had bought these groups at Jobson’s, and given a lot of
      money for them. He often said to June, with a sort of
      disillusioned contempt:

      “_You_ don’t care about them! They’re not the gimcrack things you
      and your friends like, but they cost me seventy pounds!” He was
      not a man who allowed his taste to be warped when he knew for
      solid reasons that it was sound.

      One of the first things that June did on getting home was to go
      round to Timothy’s. She persuaded herself that it was her duty to
      call there, and cheer him with an account of all her travels; but
      in reality she went because she knew of no other place where, by
      some random speech, or roundabout question, she could glean news
      of Bosinney.

      They received her most cordially: And how was her dear
      grandfather? He had not been to see them since May. Her Uncle
      Timothy was very poorly, he had had a lot of trouble with the
      chimney-sweep in his bedroom; the stupid man had let the soot
      down the chimney! It had quite upset her uncle.

      June sat there a long time, dreading, yet passionately hoping,
      that they would speak of Bosinney.

      But paralyzed by unaccountable discretion, Mrs. Septimus Small
      let fall no word, neither did she question June about him. In
      desperation the girl asked at last whether Soames and Irene were
      in town—she had not yet been to see anyone.

      It was Aunt Hester who replied: Oh, yes, they were in town, they
      had not been away at all. There was some little difficulty about
      the house, she believed. June had heard, no doubt! She had better
      ask her Aunt Juley!

      June turned to Mrs. Small, who sat upright in her chair, her
      hands clasped, her face covered with innumerable pouts. In answer
      to the girl’s look she maintained a strange silence, and when she
      spoke it was to ask June whether she had worn night-socks up in
      those high hotels where it must be so cold of a night.

      June answered that she had not, she hated the stuffy things; and
      rose to leave.

      Mrs. Small’s infallibly chosen silence was far more ominous to
      her than anything that could have been said.

      Before half an hour was over she had dragged the truth from Mrs.
      Baynes in Lowndes Square, that Soames was bringing an action
      against Bosinney over the decoration of the house.

      Instead of disturbing her, the news had a strangely calming
      effect; as though she saw in the prospect of this struggle new
      hope for herself. She learnt that the case was expected to come
      on in about a month, and there seemed little or no prospect of
      Bosinney’s success.

      “And whatever he’ll do I can’t think,” said Mrs. Baynes; “it’s
      very dreadful for him, you know—he’s got no money—he’s very hard
      up. And we can’t help him, I’m sure. I’m told the money-lenders
      won’t lend if you have no security, and he has none—none at all.”

      Her embonpoint had increased of late; she was in the full swing
      of autumn organization, her writing-table literally strewn with
      the menus of charity functions. She looked meaningly at June,
      with her round eyes of parrot-grey.

      The sudden flush that rose on the girl’s intent young face—she
      must have seen spring up before her a great hope—the sudden
      sweetness of her smile, often came back to Lady Baynes in after
      years (Baynes was knighted when he built that public Museum of
      Art which has given so much employment to officials, and so
      little pleasure to those working classes for whom it was
      designed).

      The memory of that change, vivid and touching, like the breaking
      open of a flower, or the first sun after long winter, the memory,
      too, of all that came after, often intruded itself,
      unaccountably, inopportunely on Lady Baynes, when her mind was
      set upon the most important things.

      This was the very afternoon of the day that young Jolyon
      witnessed the meeting in the Botanical Gardens, and on this day,
      too, old Jolyon paid a visit to his solicitors, Forsyte, Bustard,
      and Forsyte, in the Poultry. Soames was not in, he had gone down
      to Somerset House; Bustard was buried up to the hilt in papers
      and that inaccessible apartment, where he was judiciously placed,
      in order that he might do as much work as possible; but James was
      in the front office, biting a finger, and lugubriously turning
      over the pleadings in Forsyte _v_. Bosinney.

      This sound lawyer had only a sort of luxurious dread of the “nice
      point,” enough to set up a pleasurable feeling of fuss; for his
      good practical sense told him that if he himself were on the
      Bench he would not pay much attention to it. But he was afraid
      that this Bosinney would go bankrupt and Soames would have to
      find the money after all, and costs into the bargain. And behind
      this tangible dread there was always that intangible trouble,
      lurking in the background, intricate, dim, scandalous, like a bad
      dream, and of which this action was but an outward and visible
      sign.

      He raised his head as old Jolyon came in, and muttered: “How are
      you, Jolyon? Haven’t seen you for an age. You’ve been to
      Switzerland, they tell me. This young Bosinney, he’s got himself
      into a mess. I knew how it would be!” He held out the papers,
      regarding his elder brother with nervous gloom.

      Old Jolyon read them in silence, and while he read them James
      looked at the floor, biting his fingers the while.

      Old Jolyon pitched them down at last, and they fell with a thump
      amongst a mass of affidavits in “_re_ Buncombe, deceased,” one of
      the many branches of that parent and profitable tree, “Fryer _v_.
      Forsyte.”

      “I don’t know what Soames is about,” he said, “to make a fuss
      over a few hundred pounds. I thought he was a man of property.”

      James’ long upper lip twitched angrily; he could not bear his son
      to be attacked in such a spot.

      “It’s not the money,” he began, but meeting his brother’s glance,
      direct, shrewd, judicial, he stopped.

      There was a silence.

      “I’ve come in for my Will,” said old Jolyon at last, tugging at
      his moustache.

      James’ curiosity was roused at once. Perhaps nothing in this life
      was more stimulating to him than a Will; it was the supreme deal
      with property, the final inventory of a man’s belongings, the
      last word on what he was worth. He sounded the bell.

      “Bring in Mr. Jolyon’s Will,” he said to an anxious, dark-haired
      clerk.

      “You going to make some alterations?” And through his mind there
      flashed the thought: “Now, am I worth as much as he?”

      Old Jolyon put the Will in his breast pocket, and James twisted
      his long legs regretfully.

      “You’ve made some nice purchases lately, they tell me,” he said.

      “I don’t know where you get your information from,” answered old
      Jolyon sharply. “When’s this action coming on? Next month? I
      can’t tell what you’ve got in your minds. You must manage your
      own affairs; but if you take my advice, you’ll settle it out of
      Court. Good-bye!” With a cold handshake he was gone.

      James, his fixed grey-blue eye corkscrewing round some secret
      anxious image, began again to bite his finger.

      Old Jolyon took his Will to the offices of the New Colliery
      Company, and sat down in the empty Board Room to read it through.
      He answered “Down-by-the-starn” Hemmings so tartly when the
      latter, seeing his Chairman seated there, entered with the new
      Superintendent’s first report, that the Secretary withdrew with
      regretful dignity; and sending for the transfer clerk, blew him
      up till the poor youth knew not where to look.

      It was not—by George—as he (Down-by-the-starn) would have him
      know, for a whippersnapper of a young fellow like him, to come
      down to that office, and think that he was God Almighty. He
      (Down-by-the-starn) had been head of that office for more years
      than a boy like him could count, and if he thought that when he
      had finished all his work, he could sit there doing nothing, he
      did not know him, Hemmings (Down-by-the-starn), and so forth.

      On the other side of the green baize door old Jolyon sat at the
      long, mahogany-and-leather board table, his thick, loose-jointed,
      tortoiseshell eye-glasses perched on the bridge of his nose, his
      gold pencil moving down the clauses of his Will.

      It was a simple affair, for there were none of those vexatious
      little legacies and donations to charities, which fritter away a
      man’s possessions, and damage the majestic effect of that little
      paragraph in the morning papers accorded to Forsytes who die with
      a hundred thousand pounds.

      A simple affair. Just a bequest to his son of twenty thousand,
      and “as to the residue of my property of whatsoever kind whether
      realty or personalty, or partaking of the nature of either—upon
      trust to pay the proceeds rents annual produce dividends or
      interest thereof and thereon to my said grand-daughter June
      Forsyte or her assigns during her life to be for her sole use and
      benefit and without, etc... and from and after her death or
      decease upon trust to convey assign transfer or make over the
      said last-mentioned lands hereditaments premises trust moneys
      stocks funds investments and securities or such as shall then
      stand for and represent the same unto such person or persons
      whether one or more for such intents purposes and uses and
      generally in such manner way and form in all respects as the said
      June Forsyte notwithstanding coverture shall by her last Will and
      Testament or any writing or writings in the nature of a Will
      testament or testamentary disposition to be by her duly made
      signed and published direct appoint or make over give and dispose
      of the same And in default etc.... Provided always...” and so on,
      in seven folios of brief and simple phraseology.

      The Will had been drawn by James in his palmy days. He had
      foreseen almost every contingency.

      Old Jolyon sat a long time reading this Will; at last he took
      half a sheet of paper from the rack, and made a prolonged pencil
      note; then buttoning up the Will, he caused a cab to be called
      and drove to the offices of Paramor and Herring, in Lincoln’s Inn
      Fields. Jack Herring was dead, but his nephew was still in the
      firm, and old Jolyon was closeted with him for half an hour.

      He had kept the hansom, and on coming out, gave the driver the
      address—3, Wistaria Avenue.

      He felt a strange, slow satisfaction, as though he had scored a
      victory over James and the man of property. They should not poke
      their noses into his affairs any more; he had just cancelled
      their trusteeships of his Will; he would take the whole of his
      business out of their hands, and put it into the hands of young
      Herring, and he would move the business of his Companies too. If
      that young Soames were such a man of property, he would never
      miss a thousand a year or so; and under his great white moustache
      old Jolyon grimly smiled. He felt that what he was doing was in
      the nature of retributive justice, richly deserved.

      Slowly, surely, with the secret inner process that works the
      destruction of an old tree, the poison of the wounds to his
      happiness, his will, his pride, had corroded the comely edifice
      of his philosophy. Life had worn him down on one side, till, like
      that family of which he was the head, he had lost balance.

      To him, borne northwards towards his son’s house, the thought of
      the new disposition of property, which he had just set in motion,
      appeared vaguely in the light of a stroke of punishment, levelled
      at that family and that Society, of which James and his son
      seemed to him the representatives. He had made a restitution to
      young Jolyon, and restitution to young Jolyon satisfied his
      secret craving for revenge—revenge against Time, sorrow, and
      interference, against all that incalculable sum of disapproval
      that had been bestowed by the world for fifteen years on his only
      son. It presented itself as the one possible way of asserting
      once more the domination of his will; of forcing James, and
      Soames, and the family, and all those hidden masses of Forsytes—a
      great stream rolling against the single dam of his obstinacy—to
      recognise once and for all that _he would be master_. It was
      sweet to think that at last he was going to make the boy a richer
      man by far than that son of James, that “man of property.” And it
      was sweet to give to Jo, for he loved his son.

      Neither young Jolyon nor his wife were in (young Jolyon indeed
      was not back from the Botanical), but the little maid told him
      that she expected the master at any moment:

      “He’s always at ’ome to tea, sir, to play with the children.”

      Old Jolyon said he would wait; and sat down patiently enough in
      the faded, shabby drawing room, where, now that the summer
      chintzes were removed, the old chairs and sofas revealed all
      their threadbare deficiencies. He longed to send for the
      children; to have them there beside him, their supple bodies
      against his knees; to hear Jolly’s: “Hallo, Gran!” and see his
      rush; and feel Holly’s soft little hand stealing up against his
      cheek. But he would not. There was solemnity in what he had come
      to do, and until it was over he would not play. He amused himself
      by thinking how with two strokes of his pen he was going to
      restore the look of caste so conspicuously absent from everything
      in that little house; how he could fill these rooms, or others in
      some larger mansion, with triumphs of art from Baple and
      Pullbred’s; how he could send little Jolly to Harrow and Oxford
      (he no longer had faith in Eton and Cambridge, for his son had
      been there); how he could procure little Holly the best musical
      instruction, the child had a remarkable aptitude.

      As these visions crowded before him, causing emotion to swell his
      heart, he rose, and stood at the window, looking down into the
      little walled strip of garden, where the pear-tree, bare of
      leaves before its time, stood with gaunt branches in the
      slow-gathering mist of the autumn afternoon. The dog Balthasar,
      his tail curled tightly over a piebald, furry back, was walking
      at the farther end, sniffing at the plants, and at intervals
      placing his leg for support against the wall.

      And old Jolyon mused.

      What pleasure was there left but to give? It was pleasant to
      give, when you could find one who would be thankful for what you
      gave—one of your own flesh and blood! There was no such
      satisfaction to be had out of giving to those who did not belong
      to you, to those who had no claim on you! Such giving as that was
      a betrayal of the individualistic convictions and actions of his
      life, of all his enterprise, his labour, and his moderation, of
      the great and proud fact that, like tens of thousands of Forsytes
      before him, tens of thousands in the present, tens of thousands
      in the future, he had always made his own, and held his own, in
      the world.

      And, while he stood there looking down on the smut-covered
      foliage of the laurels, the black-stained grass-plot, the
      progress of the dog Balthasar, all the suffering of the fifteen
      years during which he had been baulked of legitimate enjoyment
      mingled its gall with the sweetness of the approaching moment.

      Young Jolyon came at last, pleased with his work, and fresh from
      long hours in the open air. On hearing that his father was in the
      drawing room, he inquired hurriedly whether Mrs. Forsyte was at
      home, and being informed that she was not, heaved a sigh of
      relief. Then putting his painting materials carefully in the
      little coat-closet out of sight, he went in.

      With characteristic decision old Jolyon came at once to the
      point. “I’ve been altering my arrangements, Jo,” he said. “You
      can cut your coat a bit longer in the future—I’m settling a
      thousand a year on you at once. June will have fifty thousand at
      my death; and you the rest. That dog of yours is spoiling the
      garden. I shouldn’t keep a dog, if I were you!”

      The dog Balthasar, seated in the centre of the lawn, was
      examining his tail.

      Young Jolyon looked at the animal, but saw him dimly, for his
      eyes were misty.

      “Yours won’t come short of a hundred thousand, my boy,” said old
      Jolyon; “I thought you’d better know. I haven’t much longer to
      live at my age. I shan’t allude to it again. How’s your wife?
      And—give her my love.”

      Young Jolyon put his hand on his father’s shoulder, and, as
      neither spoke, the episode closed.

      Having seen his father into a hansom, young Jolyon came back to
      the drawing-room and stood, where old Jolyon had stood, looking
      down on the little garden. He tried to realize all that this
      meant to him, and, Forsyte that he was, vistas of property were
      opened out in his brain; the years of half rations through which
      he had passed had not sapped his natural instincts. In extremely
      practical form, he thought of travel, of his wife’s costume, the
      children’s education, a pony for Jolly, a thousand things; but in
      the midst of all he thought, too, of Bosinney and his mistress,
      and the broken song of the thrush. Joy—tragedy! Which? Which?

      The old past—the poignant, suffering, passionate, wonderful past,
      that no money could buy, that nothing could restore in all its
      burning sweetness—had come back before him.

      When his wife came in he went straight up to her and took her in
      his arms; and for a long time he stood without speaking, his eyes
      closed, pressing her to him, while she looked at him with a
      wondering, adoring, doubting look in her eyes.




      CHAPTER IV VOYAGE INTO THE INFERNO

      The morning after a certain night on which Soames at last
      asserted his rights and acted like a man, he breakfasted alone.

      He breakfasted by gaslight, the fog of late November wrapping the
      town as in some monstrous blanket till the trees of the Square
      even were barely visible from the dining-room window.

      He ate steadily, but at times a sensation as though he could not
      swallow attacked him. Had he been right to yield to his
      overmastering hunger of the night before, and break down the
      resistance which he had suffered now too long from this woman who
      was his lawful and solemnly constituted helpmate?

      He was strangely haunted by the recollection of her face, from
      before which, to soothe her, he had tried to pull her hands—of
      her terrible smothered sobbing, the like of which he had never
      heard, and still seemed to hear; and he was still haunted by the
      odd, intolerable feeling of remorse and shame he had felt, as he
      stood looking at her by the flame of the single candle, before
      silently slinking away.

      And somehow, now that he had acted like this, he was surprised at
      himself.

      Two nights before, at Winifred Dartie’s, he had taken Mrs.
      MacAnder into dinner. She had said to him, looking in his face
      with her sharp, greenish eyes: “And so your wife is a great
      friend of that Mr. Bosinney’s?”

      Not deigning to ask what she meant, he had brooded over her
      words.

      They had roused in him a fierce jealousy, which, with the
      peculiar perversion of this instinct, had turned to fiercer
      desire.

      Without the incentive of Mrs. MacAnder’s words he might never
      have done what he had done. Without their incentive and the
      accident of finding his wife’s door for once unlocked, which had
      enabled him to steal upon her asleep.

      Slumber had removed his doubts, but the morning brought them
      again. One thought comforted him: No one would know—it was not
      the sort of thing that she would speak about.

      And, indeed, when the vehicle of his daily business life, which
      needed so imperatively the grease of clear and practical thought,
      started rolling once more with the reading of his letters, those
      nightmare-like doubts began to assume less extravagant importance
      at the back of his mind. The incident was really not of great
      moment; women made a fuss about it in books; but in the cool
      judgment of right-thinking men, of men of the world, of such as
      he recollected often received praise in the Divorce Court, he had
      but done his best to sustain the sanctity of marriage, to prevent
      her from abandoning her duty, possibly, if she were still seeing
      Bosinney, from....

      No, he did not regret it.

      Now that the first step towards reconciliation had been taken,
      the rest would be comparatively—comparatively....

      He, rose and walked to the window. His nerve had been shaken. The
      sound of smothered sobbing was in his ears again. He could not
      get rid of it.

      He put on his fur coat, and went out into the fog; having to go
      into the City, he took the underground railway from Sloane Square
      station.

      In his corner of the first-class compartment filled with City men
      the smothered sobbing still haunted him, so he opened _The Times_
      with the rich crackle that drowns all lesser sounds, and,
      barricaded behind it, set himself steadily to con the news.

      He read that a Recorder had charged a grand jury on the previous
      day with a more than usually long list of offences. He read of
      three murders, five manslaughters, seven arsons, and as many as
      eleven rapes—a surprisingly high number—in addition to many less
      conspicuous crimes, to be tried during a coming Sessions; and
      from one piece of news he went on to another, keeping the paper
      well before his face.

      And still, inseparable from his reading, was the memory of
      Irene’s tear-stained face, and the sounds from her broken heart.

      The day was a busy one, including, in addition to the ordinary
      affairs of his practice, a visit to his brokers, Messrs. Grin and
      Grinning, to give them instructions to sell his shares in the New
      Colliery Co., Ltd., whose business he suspected, rather than
      knew, was stagnating (this enterprise afterwards slowly declined,
      and was ultimately sold for a song to an American syndicate); and
      a long conference at Waterbuck, Q.C.’s chambers, attended by
      Boulter, by Fiske, the junior counsel, and Waterbuck, Q.C.,
      himself.

      The case of Forsyte _v_. Bosinney was expected to be reached on
      the morrow, before Mr. Justice Bentham.

      Mr. Justice Bentham, a man of common-sense rather than too great
      legal knowledge, was considered to be about the best man they
      could have to try the action. He was a “strong” Judge.

      Waterbuck, Q.C., in pleasing conjunction with an almost rude
      neglect of Boulter and Fiske paid to Soames a good deal of
      attention, by instinct or the sounder evidence of rumour, feeling
      him to be a man of property.

      He held with remarkable consistency to the opinion he had already
      expressed in writing, that the issue would depend to a great
      extent on the evidence given at the trial, and in a few well
      directed remarks he advised Soames not to be too careful in
      giving that evidence. “A little bluffness, Mr. Forsyte,” he said,
      “a little bluffness,” and after he had spoken he laughed firmly,
      closed his lips tight, and scratched his head just below where he
      had pushed his wig back, for all the world like the
      gentleman-farmer for whom he loved to be taken. He was considered
      perhaps the leading man in breach of promise cases.

      Soames used the underground again in going home.

      The fog was worse than ever at Sloane Square station. Through the
      still, thick blur, men groped in and out; women, very few,
      grasped their reticules to their bosoms and handkerchiefs to
      their mouths; crowned with the weird excrescence of the driver,
      haloed by a vague glow of lamp-light that seemed to drown in
      vapour before it reached the pavement, cabs loomed dim-shaped
      ever and again, and discharged citizens, bolting like rabbits to
      their burrows.

      And these shadowy figures, wrapped each in his own little shroud
      of fog, took no notice of each other. In the great warren, each
      rabbit for himself, especially those clothed in the more
      expensive fur, who, afraid of carriages on foggy days, are driven
      underground.

      One figure, however, not far from Soames, waited at the station
      door.

      Some buccaneer or lover, of whom each Forsyte thought: “Poor
      devil! looks as if he were having a bad time!” Their kind hearts
      beat a stroke faster for that poor, waiting, anxious lover in the
      fog; but they hurried by, well knowing that they had neither time
      nor money to spare for any suffering but their own.

      Only a policeman, patrolling slowly and at intervals, took an
      interest in that waiting figure, the brim of whose slouch hat
      half hid a face reddened by the cold, all thin, and haggard, over
      which a hand stole now and again to smooth away anxiety, or renew
      the resolution that kept him waiting there. But the waiting lover
      (if lover he were) was used to policemen’s scrutiny, or too
      absorbed in his anxiety, for he never flinched. A hardened case,
      accustomed to long trysts, to anxiety, and fog, and cold, if only
      his mistress came at last. Foolish lover! Fogs last until the
      spring; there is also snow and rain, no comfort anywhere; gnawing
      fear if you bring her out, gnawing fear if you bid her stay at
      home!

      “Serve him right; he should arrange his affairs better!”

      So any respectable Forsyte. Yet, if that sounder citizen could
      have listened at the waiting lover’s heart, out there in the fog
      and the cold, he would have said again: “Yes, poor devil he’s
      having a bad time!”

      Soames got into his cab, and, with the glass down, crept along
      Sloane Street, and so along the Brompton Road, and home. He
      reached his house at five.

      His wife was not in. She had gone out a quarter of an hour
      before. Out at such a time of night, into this terrible fog! What
      was the meaning of that?

      He sat by the dining-room fire, with the door open, disturbed to
      the soul, trying to read the evening paper. A book was no good—in
      daily papers alone was any narcotic to such worry as his. From
      the customary events recorded in the journal he drew some
      comfort. “Suicide of an actress”—“Grave indisposition of a
      Statesman” (that chronic sufferer)—“Divorce of an army
      officer”—“Fire in a colliery”—he read them all. They helped him a
      little—prescribed by the greatest of all doctors, our natural
      taste.

      It was nearly seven when he heard her come in.

      The incident of the night before had long lost its importance
      under stress of anxiety at her strange sortie into the fog. But
      now that Irene was home, the memory of her broken-hearted sobbing
      came back to him, and he felt nervous at the thought of facing
      her.

      She was already on the stairs; her grey fur coat hung to her
      knees, its high collar almost hid her face, she wore a thick
      veil.

      She neither turned to look at him nor spoke. No ghost or stranger
      could have passed more silently.

      Bilson came to lay dinner, and told him that Mrs. Forsyte was not
      coming down; she was having the soup in her room.

      For once Soames did not “change”; it was, perhaps, the first time
      in his life that he had sat down to dinner with soiled cuffs,
      and, not even noticing them, he brooded long over his wine. He
      sent Bilson to light a fire in his picture-room, and presently
      went up there himself.

      Turning on the gas, he heaved a deep sigh, as though amongst
      these treasures, the backs of which confronted him in stacks,
      around the little room, he had found at length his peace of mind.
      He went straight up to the greatest treasure of them all, an
      undoubted Turner, and, carrying it to the easel, turned its face
      to the light. There had been a movement in Turners, but he had
      not been able to make up his mind to part with it. He stood for a
      long time, his pale, clean-shaven face poked forward above his
      stand-up collar, looking at the picture as though he were adding
      it up; a wistful expression came into his eyes; he found,
      perhaps, that it came to too little. He took it down from the
