happier. He’d really done something to be proud of 
now — no one could say he was just a famous name 
any more. The evening air had never smelled so 
sweet. He walked over the damp grass, reliving the 
last hour in his head, which was a happy blur: 
Gryffindors running to lift him onto their shoulders; 
Ron and Hermione in the distance, jumping up and 
down, Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed. 

Harry had reached the shed. He leaned against the 
wooden door and looked up at Hogwarts, with its 
windows glowing red in the setting sun. Gryffindor in 
the lead. He’d done it, he’d shown Snape. ... 

And speaking of Snape . . . 

A hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of 
the castle. Clearly not wanting to be seen, it walked 
as fast as possible toward the forbidden forest. 
Harry’s victory faded from his mind as he watched. 
He recognized the figure’s prowling walk. Snape, 
sneaking into the forest while everyone else was at 
dinner — what was going on? 

Harry jumped back on his Nimbus Two Thousand 
and took off. Gliding silently over the castle he saw 
Snape enter the forest at a run. He followed. 

The trees were so thick he couldn’t see where Snape 
had gone. He flew in circles, lower and lower, 
brushing the top branches of trees until he heard 



Page | 252 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




voices. He glided toward them and landed noiselessly 
in a towering beech tree. 

He climbed carefully along one of the branches, 
holding tight to his broomstick, trying to see through 
the leaves. 

Below, in a shadowy clearing, stood Snape, but he 
wasn’t alone. Quirrell was there, too. Harry couldn’t 
make out the look on his face, but he was stuttering 
worse than ever. Harry strained to catch what they 
were saying. 

"... d-don’t know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of 
all p-places, Severus ...” 

“Oh, I thought we’d keep this private,” said Snape, his 
voice icy. “Students aren’t supposed to know about 
the Sorcerer’s Stone, after all.” 

Harry leaned forward. Quirrell was mumbling 
something. Snape interrupted him. 

“Have you found out how to get past that beast of 
Hagrid’s yet?” 

“B-b-but Severus, I — ” 

“You don’t want me as your enemy, Quirrell,” said 
Snape, taking a step toward him. 

“I-I don’t know what you — ” 

“You know perfectly well what I mean.” 

An owl hooted loudly, and Harry nearly fell out of the 
tree. He steadied himself in time to hear Snape say, 

“ — your little bit of hocus-pocus. I’m waiting.” 



Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“B-but I d-d-don’t — ” 



“Very well,” Snape cut in. “Well have another little 
chat soon, when you’ve had time to think things over 
and decided where your loyalties lie.” 

He threw his cloak over his head and strode out of the 
clearing. It was almost dark now, but Harry could see 
Quirrell, standing quite still as though he was 
petrified. 



Jc Jc Jc 



“Harry, where have you been?” Hermione squeaked. 

“We won! You won! We won!” shouted Ron, thumping 
Harry on the back. “And I gave Malfoy a black eye, 
and Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle single- 
handed! He’s still out cold but Madam Pomfrey says 
he’ll be all right — talk about showing Slytherin! 
Everyone’s waiting for you in the common room, we’re 
having a party, Fred and George stole some cakes and 
stuff from the kitchens.” 

“Never mind that now,” said Harry breathlessly. “Let’s 
find an empty room, you wait ’til you hear this. ...” 

He made sure Peeves wasn’t inside before shutting 
the door behind them, then he told them what he’d 
seen and heard. 

“So we were right, it is the Sorcerer’s Stone, and 
Snape’s trying to force Quirrell to help him get it. He 
asked if he knew how to get past Fluffy — and he said 
something about Quirrell’s ‘hocus-pocus’ — I reckon 
there are other things guarding the stone apart from 
Fluffy, loads of enchantments, probably, and Quirrell 



Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




would have done some anti-Dark Arts spell that 
Snape needs to break through — ” 

“So you mean the Stone’s only safe as long as Quirrell 
stands up to Snape?” said Hermione in alarm. 

“It’ll be gone by next Tuesday,” said Ron. 



Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 






NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN 
RIDGEBACK 

Quirrell, however, must have been braver than they’d 
thought. In the weeks that followed he did seem to be 
getting paler and thinner, but it didn’t look as though 
he’d cracked yet. 

Every time they passed the third-floor corridor, Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione would press their ears to the door 
to check that Fluffy was still growling inside. Snape 
was sweeping about in his usual bad temper, which 
surely meant that the Stone was still safe. Whenever 
Harry passed Quirrell these days he gave him an 
encouraging sort of smile, and Ron had started telling 
people off for laughing at Quirrell’s stutter. 

Hermione, however, had more on her mind than the 
Sorcerer’s Stone. She had started drawing up study 
schedules and color-coding all her notes. Harry and 
Ron wouldn’t have minded, but she kept nagging 
them to do the same. 



Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



“Hermione, the exams are ages away.” 

“Ten weeks,” Hermione snapped. “That’s not ages, 
that’s like a second to Nicolas Flamel.” 

“But we’re not six hundred years old,” Ron reminded 
her. “Anyway, what are you studying for, you already 
know it all.” 

“What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize 
we need to pass these exams to get into the second 
year? They’re very important, I should have started 
studying a month ago, I don’t know what’s gotten into 
me.” 

Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking 
along the same lines as Hermione. They piled so 
much homework on them that the Easter holidays 
weren’t nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. It 
was hard to relax with Hermione next to you reciting 
the twelve uses of dragon’s blood or practicing wand 
movements. Moaning and yawning, Harry and Ron 
spent most of their free time in the library with her, 
trying to get through all their extra work. 

“I’ll never remember this,” Ron burst out one 
afternoon, throwing down his quill and looking 
longingly out of the library window. It was the first 
really fine day they’d had in months. The sky was a 
clear, forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in 
the air of summer coming. 

Harry, who was looking up “Dittany” in One Thousand 
Magical Herbs and Fungi, didn’t look up until he 
heard Ron say, “Hagrid! What are you doing in the 
library?” 



Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid shuffled into view, hiding something behind 
his back. He looked very out of place in his moleskin 
overcoat. 

“Jus’ lookin’,” he said, in a shifty voice that got their 
interest at once. “An’ what’re you lot up ter?” He 
looked suddenly suspicious. “Yer not still lookin’ fer 
Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?” 

“Oh, we found out who he is ages ago,” said Ron 
impressively. “And we know what that dog’s guarding, 
it’s a Sorcerer’s St — ” 

“Shhhh\” Hagrid looked around quickly to see if 
anyone was listening. “Don’ go shoutin’ about it, 
what’s the matter with yeh?” 

“There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a 
matter of fact,” said Harry, “about what’s guarding 
the Stone apart from Fluffy — ” 

“SHHHH!” said Hagrid again. “Listen — come an’ see 
me later, I’m not promisin’ I’ll tell yeh anythin’, mind, 
but don’ go rabbitin’ about it in here, students aren’ 
s’pposed ter know. They’ll think I’ve told yeh — ” 

“See you later, then,” said Harry. 

Hagrid shuffled off. 

“What was he hiding behind his back?” said 
Hermione thoughtfully. 

“Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?” 

“I’m going to see what section he was in,” said Ron, 
who’d had enough of working. He came back a 
minute later with a pile of books in his arms and 
slammed them down on the table. 

Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Dragons'.” he whispered. “Hagrid was looking up stuff 
about dragons! Look at these: Dragon Species of Great 
Britain and Ireland; From Egg to Inferno, A Dragon 
Keeper’s Guide.” 

“Hagrid ’s always wanted a dragon, he told me so the 
first time I ever met him,” said Harry. 

“But it’s against our laws,” said Ron. “Dragon 
breeding was outlawed by the Warlocks’ Convention 
of 1709, everyone knows that. It’s hard to stop 
Muggles from noticing us if we’re keeping dragons in 
the back garden — anyway, you can’t tame dragons, 
it’s dangerous. You should see the burns Charlie’s got 
off wild ones in Romania.” 

“But there aren’t wild dragons in Britain?” said Harry. 

“Of course there are,” said Ron. “Common Welsh 
Green and Hebridean Blacks. The Ministry of Magic 
has a job hushing them up, I can tell you. Our kind 
have to keep putting spells on Muggles who’ve spotted 
them, to make them forget.” 

“So what on earth’s Hagrid up to?” said Hermione. 

When they knocked on the door of the gamekeeper’s 
hut an hour later, they were surprised to see that all 
the curtains were closed. Hagrid called “Who is it?” 
before he let them in, and then shut the door quickly 
behind them. 

It was stifling hot inside. Even though it was such a 
warm day, there was a blazing fire in the grate. 

Hagrid made them tea and offered them stoat 
sandwiches, which they refused. 

“So — yeh wanted to ask me somethin’?” 



Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Harry. There was no point beating around 
the bush. “We were wondering if you could tell us 
what’s guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone apart from 
Fluffy.” 

Hagrid frowned at him. 

“O’ course I can’t,” he said. “Number one, I don’ know 
meself. Number two, yeh know too much already, so I 
wouldn’ tell yeh if I could. That Stone’s here fer a good 
reason. It was almost stolen outta Gringotts — I 
s’ppose yeh’ve worked that out an’ all? Beats me how 
yeh even know abou’ Fluffy.” 

“Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell us, 
but you do know, you know everything that goes on 
round here,” said Hermione in a warm, flattering 
voice. Hagrid ’s beard twitched and they could tell he 
was smiling. “We only wondered who had done the 
guarding, really.” Hermione went on. “We wondered 
who Dumbledore had trusted enough to help him, 
apart from you.” 

Hagrid ’s chest swelled at these last words. Harry and 
Ron beamed at Hermione. 

“Well, I don’ s’pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that ... 
let’s see ... he borrowed Fluffy from me ... then some 
o’ the teachers did enchantments ... Professor Sprout 
— Professor Flitwick — Professor McGonagall — ” he 
ticked them off on his fingers, “Professor Quirrell — 
an’ Dumbledore himself did somethin’, o’ course. 

Hang on, I’ve forgotten someone. Oh yeah, Professor 
Snape.” 

“Snape?” 



Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah — yer not still on abou’ that, are yeh? Look, 
Snape helped protect the Stone, he’s not about ter 
steal it.” 

Harry knew Ron and Hermione were thinking the 
same as he was. If Snape had been in on protecting 
the Stone, it must have been easy to find out how the 
other teachers had guarded it. He probably knew 
everything — except, it seemed, Quirrell’s spell and 
how to get past Fluffy. 

“You’re the only one who knows how to get past 
Fluffy, aren’t you, Hagrid?” said Harry anxiously. 

“And you wouldn’t tell anyone, would you? Not even 
one of the teachers?” 

“Not a soul knows except me an’ Dumbledore,” said 
Hagrid proudly. 

“Well, that’s something,” Harry muttered to the 
others. “Hagrid, can we have a window open? I’m 
boiling.” 

“Can’t, Harry, sorry,” said Hagrid. Harry noticed him 
glance at the fire. Harry looked at it, too. 

“Hagrid — what’s that?” 

But he already knew what it was. In the very heart of 
the fire, underneath the kettle, was a huge, black egg. 

“Ah,” said Hagrid, fiddling nervously with his beard, 
“That’s — er ...” 

“Where did you get it, Hagrid?” said Ron, crouching 
over the fire to get a closer look at the egg. “It must’ve 
cost you a fortune.” 



Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Won it,” said Hagrid. “Las’ night. I was down in the 
village havin’ a few drinks an’ got into a game o’ cards 
with a stranger. Think he was quite glad ter get rid of 
it, ter be honest.” 

“But what are you going to do with it when it’s 
hatched?” said Hermione. 

“Well, I’ve bin doin’ some readin’,” said Hagrid, pulling 
a large book from under his pillow. “Got this outta the 
library — Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit — 
it’s a bit outta date, o’ course, but it’s all in here. Keep 
the egg in the fire, ’cause their mothers breathe on 
’em, see, an’ when it hatches, feed it on a bucket o’ 
brandy mixed with chicken blood every half hour. An’ 
see here — how ter recognize diff’rent eggs — what I 
got there’s a Norwegian Ridge-back. They’re rare, 
them.” 

He looked very pleased with himself, but Hermione 
didn’t. 

“Hagrid, you live in a wooden house,” she said. 

But Hagrid wasn’t listening. He was humming merrily 
as he stoked the fire. 

So now they had something else to worry about: what 
might happen to Hagrid if anyone found out he was 
hiding an illegal dragon in his hut. 

“Wonder what it’s like to have a peaceful life,” Ron 
sighed, as evening after evening they struggled 
through all the extra homework they were getting. 
Hermione had now started making study schedules 
for Harry and Ron, too. It was driving them nuts. 



Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Then, one breakfast time, Hedwig brought Harry 
another note from Hagrid. He had written only two 
words: It’s hatching. 

Ron wanted to skip Herbology and go straight down to 
the hut. Hermione wouldn’t hear of it. 

“Hermione, how many times in our lives are we going 
to see a dragon hatching?” 

“We’ve got lessons, we’ll get into trouble, and that’s 
nothing to what Hagrid ’s going to be in when someone 
finds out what he’s doing — ” 

“Shut up!” Harry whispered. 

Malfoy was only a few feet away and he had stopped 
dead to listen. How much had he heard? Harry didn’t 
like the look on Malfoy’s face at all. 

Ron and Hermione argued all the way to Herbology 
and in the end, Hermione agreed to run down to 
Hagrid’s with the other two during morning break. 
When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of 
their lesson, the three of them dropped their trowels 
at once and hurried through the grounds to the edge 
of the forest. Hagrid greeted them, looking flushed 
and excited. 

“It’s nearly out.” He ushered them inside. 

The egg was lying on the table. There were deep 
cracks in it. Something was moving inside; a funny 
clicking noise was coming from it. 

They all drew their chairs up to the table and watched 
with bated breath. 



Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




All at once there was a scraping noise and the egg 
split open. The baby dragon flopped onto the table. It 
wasn’t exactly pretty; Harry thought it looked like a 
crumpled, black umbrella. Its spiny wings were huge 
compared to its skinny jet body, it had a long snout 
with wide nostrils, the stubs of horns and bulging, 
orange eyes. 

It sneezed. A couple of sparks flew out of its snout. 

“Isn’t he beautiful?” Hagrid murmured. He reached 
out a hand to stroke the dragon’s head. It snapped at 
his fingers, showing pointed fangs. 

“Bless him, look, he knows his mommy!” said Hagrid. 

“Hagrid,” said Hermione, “how fast do Norwegian 
Ridgebacks grow, exactly?” 

Hagrid was about to answer when the color suddenly 
drained from his face — he leapt to his feet and ran to 
the window. 

“What’s the matter?” 

“Someone was lookin’ through the gap in the curtains 
— it’s a kid — he’s runnin’ back up ter the school.” 

Harry bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a 
distance there was no mistaking him. 

Malfoy had seen the dragon. 

Something about the smile lurking on Malfoy’s face 
during the next week made Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
very nervous. They spent most of their free time in 
Hagrid ’s darkened hut, trying to reason with him. 

“Just let him go,” Harry urged. “Set him free.” 

Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“I can’t,” said Hagrid. “He’s too little. He’d die.” 



They looked at the dragon. It had grown three times 
in length in just a week. Smoke kept furling out of its 
nostrils. Hagrid hadn’t been doing his gamekeeping 
duties because the dragon was keeping him so busy. 
There were empty brandy bottles and chicken 
feathers all over the floor. 

“I’ve decided to call him Norbert,” said Hagrid, looking 
at the dragon with misty eyes. “He really knows me 
now, watch. Norbert! Norbert! Where’s Mommy?” 

“He’s lost his marbles,” Ron muttered in Harry’s ear. 

“Hagrid,” said Harry loudly, “give it two weeks and 
Norbert’s going to be as long as your house. Malfoy 
could go to Dumbledore at any moment.” 

Hagrid bit his lip. 

“I — I know I can’t keep him forever, but I can’t jus’ 
dump him, can’t.” 

Harry suddenly turned to Ron. 

“Charlie,” he said. 

“You’re losing it, too,” said Ron. “I’m Ron, remember?” 

“No — Charlie — your brother, Charlie. In Romania. 
Studying dragons. We could send Norbert to him. 
Charlie can take care of him and then put him back 
in the wild!” 

“Brilliant!” said Ron. “How about it, Hagrid?” 

And in the end, Hagrid agreed that they could send 
an owl to Charlie to ask him. 

Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




The following week dragged by. Wednesday night 
found Hermione and Harry sitting alone in the 
common room, long after everyone else had gone to 
bed. The clock on the wall had just chimed midnight 
when the portrait hole burst open. Ron appeared out 
of nowhere as he pulled off Harry’s Invisibility Cloak. 
He had been down at Hagrid’s hut, helping him feed 
Norbert, who was now eating dead rats by the crate. 

“It bit me!” he said, showing them his hand, which 
was wrapped in a bloody handkerchief. “I’m not going 
to be able to hold a quill for a week. I tell you, that 
dragon’s the most horrible animal I’ve ever met, but 
the way Hagrid goes on about it, you’d think it was a 
fluffy little bunny rabbit. When it bit me he told me off 
for frightening it. And when I left, he was singing it a 
lullaby.” 

There was a tap on the dark window. 

“It’s Hedwig!” said Harry, hurrying to let her in. “She’ll 
have Charlie’s answer!” 

The three of them put their heads together to read the 
note. 

Dear Ron, 

How are you? Thanks for the letter — I’d be glad to 
take the Norwegian Ridgeback, but it won’t be easy 
getting him here. I think the best thing will be to send 
him over with some friends of mine who are coming to 
visit me next week. Trouble is, they mustn’t be seen 
carrying an illegal dragon. 

Could you get the Ridgeback up the tallest tower at 
midnight on Saturday? They can meet you there and 
take him away while it’s still dark. 



Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Send me an answer as soon as possible. 



Love, 

Charlie 

They looked at one another. 

“We’ve got the Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. “It 
shouldn’t be too difficult — I think the cloak’s big 
enough to cover two of us and Norbert.” 

It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that 
the other two agreed with him. Anything to get rid of 
Norbert — and Malfoy. 

There was a hitch. By the next morning, Ron’s bitten 
hand had swollen to twice its usual size. He didn’t 
know whether it was safe to go to Madam Pomfrey — 
would she recognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon, 
though, he had no choice. The cut had turned a nasty 
shade of green. It looked as if Norbert’s fangs were 
poisonous. 

Harry and Hermione rushed up to the hospital wing 
at the end of the day to find Ron in a terrible state in 
bed. 

“It’s not just my hand,” he whispered, “although that 
feels like it’s about to fall off. Malfoy told Madam 
Pomfrey he wanted to borrow one of my books so he 
could come and have a good laugh at me. He kept 
threatening to tell her what really bit me — I’ve told 
her it was a dog, but I don’t think she believes me — I 
shouldn’t have hit him at the Quidditch match, that’s 
why he’s doing this.” 

Harry and Hermione tried to calm Ron down. 

Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“It’ll all be over at midnight on Saturday,” said 
Hermione, but this didn’t soothe Ron at all. On the 
contrary, he sat bolt upright and broke into a sweat. 

“Midnight on Saturday!” he said in a hoarse voice. 

“Oh no — oh no — I’ve just remembered — Charlie’s 
letter was in that book Malfoy took, he’s going to 
know we’re getting rid of Norbert.” 

Harry and Hermione didn’t get a chance to answer. 
Madam Pomfrey came over at that moment and made 
them leave, saying Ron needed sleep. 

“It’s too late to change the plan now,” Harry told 
Hermione. “We haven’t got time to send Charlie 
another owl, and this could be our only chance to get 
rid of Norbert. We’ll have to risk it. And we have got 
the Invisibility Cloak, Malfoy doesn’t know about 
that.” 

They found Fang the boarhound sitting outside with a 
bandaged tail when they went to tell Hagrid, who 
opened a window to talk to them. 

“I won’t let you in,” he puffed. “Norbert’s at a tricky 
stage — nothin’ I can’t handle.” 

When they told him about Charlie’s letter, his eyes 
filled with tears, although that might have been 
because Norbert had just bitten him on the leg. 

“Aargh! It’s all right, he only got my boot — jus’ 
playin’ — he’s only a baby, after all.” 

The baby banged its tail on the wall, making the 
windows rattle. Harry and Hermione walked back to 
the castle feeling Saturday couldn’t come quickly 
enough. 



Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




They would have felt sorry for Hagrid when the time 
came for him to say good-bye to Norbert if they hadn’t 
been so worried about what they had to do. It was a 
very dark, cloudy night, and they were a bit late 
arriving at Hagrid ’s hut because they’d had to wait for 
Peeves to get out of their way in the entrance hall, 
where he’d been playing tennis against the wall. 

Hagrid had Norbert packed and ready in a large crate. 

“He’s got lots o’ rats an’ some brandy fer the journey,” 
said Hagrid in a muffled voice. “An’ I’ve packed his 
teddy bear in case he gets lonely.” 

From inside the crate came ripping noises that 
sounded to Harry as though the teddy was having his 
head torn off. 

“Bye-bye, Norbert!” Hagrid sobbed, as Harry and 
Hermione covered the crate with the Invisibility Cloak 
and stepped underneath it themselves. “Mommy will 
never forget you!” 

How they managed to get the crate back up to the 
castle, they never knew. Midnight ticked nearer as 
they heaved Norbert up the marble staircase in the 
entrance hall and along the dark corridors. Up 
another staircase, then another — even one of Harry’s 
shortcuts didn’t make the work much easier. 

“Nearly there!” Harry panted as they reached the 
corridor beneath the tallest tower. 

Then a sudden movement ahead of them made them 
almost drop the crate. Forgetting that they were 
already invisible, they shrank into the shadows, 
staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling 
with each other ten feet away. A lamp flared. 



Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Professor McGonagall, in a tartan bathrobe and a hair 
net, had Malfoy by the ear. 



“Detention!” she shouted. “And twenty points from 
Slytherin! Wandering around in the middle of the 
night, how dare you — ” 

“You don’t understand, Professor. Harry Potter’s 
coming — he’s got a dragon!” 

“What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies! 
Come on — I shall see Professor Snape about you, 
Malfoy!” 

The steep spiral staircase up to the top of the tower 
seemed the easiest thing in the world after that. Not 
until they’d stepped out into the cold night air did 
they throw off the cloak, glad to be able to breathe 
properly again. Hermione did a sort of jig. 

“Malfoy’s got detention! I could sing!” 

“Don’t,” Harry advised her. 

Chuckling about Malfoy, they waited, Norbert 
thrashing about in his crate. About ten minutes later, 
four broomsticks came swooping down out of the 
darkness. 

Charlie’s friends were a cheery lot. They showed 
Harry and Hermione the harness they’d rigged up, so 
they could suspend Norbert between them. They all 
helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Harry 
and Hermione shook hands with the others and 
thanked them very much. 

At last, Norbert was going ... going ... gone. 



Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




They slipped back down the spiral staircase, their 
hearts as light as their hands, now that Norbert was 
off them. No more dragon — Malfoy in detention — 
what could spoil their happiness? 

The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the 
stairs. As they stepped into the corridor, Filch’s face 
loomed suddenly out of the darkness. 

“Well, well, well,” he whispered, “we are in trouble.” 

They’d left the Invisibility Cloak on top of the tower. 



Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 








THE FORBIDDEN FOREST 

Things couldn’t have been worse. 

Filch took them down to Professor McGonagall’s 
study on the first floor, where they sat and waited 
without saying a word to each other. Hermione was 
trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover-up stories 
chased each other around Harry’s brain, each more 
feeble than the last. He couldn’t see how they were 
going to get out of trouble this time. They were 
cornered. How could they have been so stupid as to 
forget the cloak? There was no reason on earth that 
Professor McGonagall would accept for their being out 
of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of 
night, let alone being up the tallest Astronomy Tower, 
which was out-of-bounds except for classes. Add 
Norbert and the Invisibility Cloak, and they might as 
well be packing their bags already. 

Had Harry thought that things couldn’t have been 
worse? He was wrong. When Professor McGonagall 
appeared, she was leading Neville. 



Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



“Harry!” Neville burst out, the moment he saw the 
other two. “I was trying to find you to warn you, I 
heard Malfoy saying he was going to catch you, he 
said you had a drag — ” 

Harry shook his head violently to shut Neville up, but 
Professor McGonagall had seen. She looked more 
likely to breathe fire than Norbert as she towered over 
the three of them. 

“I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr. Filch 
says you were up in the Astronomy Tower. It’s one 
o’clock in the morning. Explain yourselves.” 

It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to 
answer a teacher’s question. She was staring at her 
slippers, as still as a statue. 

“I think I’ve got a good idea of what’s been going on,” 
said Professor McGonagall. “It doesn’t take a genius 
to work it out. You fed Draco Malfoy some cock-and- 
bull story about a dragon, trying to get him out of bed 
and into trouble. I’ve already caught him. I suppose 
you think it’s funny that Longbottom here heard the 
story and believed it, too?” 

Harry caught Neville’s eye and tried to tell him 
without words that this wasn’t true, because Neville 
was looking stunned and hurt. Poor, blundering 
Neville — Harry knew what it must have cost him to 
try and find them in the dark, to warn them. 

“I’m disgusted,” said Professor McGonagall. “Four 
students out of bed in one night! I’ve never heard of 
such a thing before! You, Miss Granger, I thought you 
had more sense. As for you, Mr. Potter, I thought 
Gryffindor meant more to you than this. All three of 
you will receive detentions — yes, you too, Mr. 
Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk 
Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




around school at night, especially these days, it’s very 
dangerous — and fifty points will be taken from 
Gryffindor.” 

“Fifty?” Harry gasped — they would lose the lead, the 
lead he’d won in the last Quidditch match. 

“Fifty points each,” said Professor McGonagall, 
breathing heavily through her long, pointed nose. 

“Professor — please — ” 

“You can’t—” 

“Don’t tell me what I can and can’t do, Potter. Now get 
back to bed, all of you. I’ve never been more ashamed 
of Gryffindor students.” 

A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in 
last place. In one night, they’d ruined any chance 
Gryffindor had had for the House Cup. Harry felt as 
though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach. 
How could they ever make up for this? 

Harry didn’t sleep all night. He could hear Neville 
sobbing into his pillow for what seemed like hours. 
Harry couldn’t think of anything to say to comfort 
him. He knew Neville, like himself, was dreading the 
dawn. What would happen when the rest of 
Gryffindor found out what they’d done? 

At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses 
that recorded the House points the next day thought 
there ’d been a mistake. How could they suddenly 
have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday? 
And then the story started to spread: Harry Potter, 
the famous Harry Potter, their hero of two Quidditch 
matches, had lost them all those points, him and a 
couple of other stupid first years. 

Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




From being one of the most popular and admired 
people at the school, Harry was suddenly the most 
hated. Even Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs turned on 
him, because everyone had been longing to see 
Slytherin lose the House Cup. Everywhere Harry 
went, people pointed and didn’t trouble to lower their 
voices as they insulted him. Slytherins, on the other 
hand, clapped as he walked past them, whistling and 
cheering, “Thanks Potter, we owe you one!” 

Only Ron stood by him. 

“They’ll all forget this in a few weeks. Fred and George 
have lost loads of points in all the time they’ve been 
here, and people still like them.” 

“They’ve never lost a hundred and fifty points in one 
go, though, have they?” said Harry miserably. 

“Well — no,” Ron admitted. 

It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Harry 
swore to himself not to meddle in things that weren’t 
his business from now on. He’d had it with sneaking 
around and spying. He felt so ashamed of himself that 
he went to Wood and offered to resign from the 
Quidditch team. 

“Resign?” Wood thundered. “What good’ll that do? 

How are we going to get any points back if we can’t 
win at Quidditch?” 

But even Quidditch had lost its fun. The rest of the 
