
Sirius threw aside the bread he had just lifted to his 
mouth and instead picked up the flask of pumpkin 
juice and drained it. 

“So old Crouch lost it all, just when he thought he 
had it made,” he continued, wiping his mouth with 
the back of his hand. “One moment, a hero, poised to 
become Minister of Magic . . . next, his son dead, his 
wife dead, the family name dishonored, and, so I’ve 
heard since I escaped, a big drop in popularity. Once 
the boy had died, people started feeling a bit more 
sympathetic toward the son and started asking how a 
nice young lad from a good family had gone so badly 
astray. The conclusion was that his father never 
cared much for him. So Cornelius Fudge got the top 
job, and Crouch was shunted sideways into the 
Department of International Magical Cooperation.” 

There was a long silence. Harry was thinking of the 
way Crouch’s eyes had bulged as he’d looked down at 
his disobedient house-elf back in the wood at the 
Quidditch World Cup. This, then, must have been 
why Crouch had overreacted to Winky being found 
beneath the Dark Mark. It had brought back 
memories of his son, and the old scandal, and his fall 
from grace at the Ministry. 

“Moody says Crouch is obsessed with catching Dark 
wizards,” Harry told Sirius. 

Page | 584 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, I’ve heard it’s become a bit of a mania with 
him,” said Sirius, nodding. “If you ask me, he still 
thinks he can bring back the old popularity by 
catching one more Death Eater.” 

“And he sneaked up here to search Snape’s office!” 
said Ron triumphantly, looking at Hermione. 

“Yes, and that doesn’t make sense at all,” said Sirius. 

“Yeah, it does!” said Ron excitedly, but Sirius shook 
his head. 

“Listen, if Crouch wants to investigate Snape, why 
hasn’t he been coming to judge the tournament? It 
would be an ideal excuse to make regular visits to 
Hogwarts and keep an eye on him.” 

“So you think Snape could be up to something, then?” 
asked Harry, but Hermione broke in. 

“Look, I don’t care what you say, Dumbledore trusts 
Snape — ” 

“Oh give it a rest, Hermione,” said Ron impatiently. “I 
know Dumbledore ’s brilliant and everything, but that 
doesn’t mean a really clever Dark wizard couldn’t fool 
him — ” 



“Why did Snape save Harry’s life in the first year, 
then? Why didn’t he just let him die?” 

“I dunno — maybe he thought Dumbledore would 
kick him out — ” 

“What d’you think, Sirius?” Harry said loudly, and 
Ron and Hermione stopped bickering to listen. 



Page | 585 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I think they’ve both got a point,” said Sirius, looking 
thoughtfully at Ron and Hermione. “Ever since I 
found out Snape was teaching here, I’ve wondered 
why Dumbledore hired him. Snape ’s always been 
fascinated by the Dark Arts, he was famous for it at 
school. Slimy, oily, greasy-haired kid, he was,” Sirius 
added, and Harry and Ron grinned at each other. 
“Snape knew more curses when he arrived at school 
than half the kids in seventh year, and he was part of 
a gang of Slytherins who nearly all turned out to be 
Death Eaters.” 

Sirius held up his fingers and began ticking off 
names. 

“Rosier and Wilkes — they were both killed by Aurors 
the year before Voldemort fell. The Lestranges — 
they’re a married couple — they’re in Azkaban. Avery 

— from what I’ve heard he wormed his way out of 
trouble by saying he’d been acting under the Imperius 
Curse — he’s still at large. But as far as I know, 

Snape was never even accused of being a Death Eater 

— not that that means much. Plenty of them were 
never caught. And Snape ’s certainly clever and 
cunning enough to keep himself out of trouble.” 

“Snape knows Karkaroff pretty well, but he wants to 
keep that quiet,” said Ron. 

“Yeah, you should’ve seen Snape’s face when 
Karkaroff turned up in Potions yesterday!” said Harry 
quickly. “Karkaroff wanted to talk to Snape, he says 
Snape’s been avoiding him. Karkaroff looked really 
worried. He showed Snape something on his arm, but 
I couldn’t see what it was.” 

“He showed Snape something on his arm?” said 
Sirius, looking frankly bewildered. He ran his fingers 
distractedly through his filthy hair, then shrugged 

Page | 586 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




again. “Well, I’ve no idea what that’s about ... but if 
Karkaroff’s genuinely worried, and he’s going to 
Snape for answers ...” 

Sirius stared at the cave wall, then made a grimace of 
frustration. 

“There’s still the fact that Dumbledore trusts Snape, 
and I know Dumbledore trusts where a lot of other 
people wouldn’t, but I just can’t see him letting Snape 
teach at Hogwarts if he’d ever worked for Voldemort.” 

“Why are Moody and Crouch so keen to get into 
Snape ’s office then?” said Ron stubbornly. 

“Well,” said Sirius slowly, “I wouldn’t put it past Mad- 
Eye to have searched every single teacher’s office 
when he got to Hogwarts. He takes his Defense 
Against the Dark Arts seriously, Moody. I’m not sure 
he trusts anyone at all, and after the things he’s seen, 
it’s not surprising. I’ll say this for Moody, though, he 
never killed if he could help it. Always brought people 
in alive where possible. He was tough, but he never 
descended to the level of the Death Eaters. Crouch, 
though ... he’s a different matter ... is he really ill? If 
he is, why did he make the effort to drag himself up to 
Snape ’s office? And if he’s not ... what’s he up to? 
What was he doing at the World Cup that was so 
important he didn’t turn up in the Top Box? What’s 
he been doing while he should have been judging the 
tournament?” 

Sirius lapsed into silence, still staring at the cave 
wall. Buckbeak was ferreting around on the rocky 
floor, looking for bones he might have overlooked. 
Finally, Sirius looked up at Ron. 



Page | 587 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You say your brother’s Crouch’s personal assistant? 
Any chance you could ask him if he’s seen Crouch 
lately?” 

“I can try,” said Ron doubtfully. “Better not make it 
sound like I reckon Crouch is up to anything dodgy, 
though. Percy loves Crouch.” 

“And you might try and find out whether they’ve got 
any leads on Bertha Jorkins while you’re at it,” said 
Sirius, gesturing to the second copy of the Daily 
Prophet. 

“Bagman told me they hadn’t,” said Harry. 

“Yes, he’s quoted in the article in there,” said Sirius, 
nodding at the paper. “Blustering on about how bad 
Bertha’s memory is. Well, maybe she’s changed since 
I knew her, but the Bertha I knew wasn’t forgetful at 
all — quite the reverse. She was a bit dim, but she 
had an excellent memory for gossip. It used to get her 
into a lot of trouble; she never knew when to keep her 
mouth shut. I can see her being a bit of a liability at 
the Ministry of Magic ... maybe that’s why Bagman 
didn’t bother to look for her for so long. ...” 

Sirius heaved an enormous sigh and rubbed his 
shadowed eyes. 

“What’s the time?” 

Harry checked his watch, then remembered it hadn’t 
been working since it had spent over an hour in the 
lake. 

“It’s half past three,” said Hermione. 

“You’d better get back to school,” Sirius said, getting 
to his feet. “Now listen ...” He looked particularly hard 

Page | 588 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




at Harry. “I don’t want you lot sneaking out of school 
to see me, all right? Just send notes to me here. I still 
want to hear about anything odd. But you’re not to go 
leaving Hogwarts without permission; it would be an 
ideal opportunity for someone to attack you.” 

“No one’s tried to attack me so far, except a dragon 
and a couple of grindylows,” Harry said, but Sirius 
scowled at him. 

“I don’t care ... I’ll breathe freely again when this 
tournament’s over, and that’s not until June. And 
don’t forget, if you’re talking about me among 
yourselves, call me Snuffles, okay?” 

He handed Harry the empty napkin and flask and 
went to pat Buckbeak good-bye. “I’ll walk to the edge 
of the village with you,” said Sirius, “see if I can 
scrounge another paper.” 

He transformed into the great black dog before they 
left the cave, and they walked back down the 
mountainside with him, across the boulder-strewn 
ground, and back to the stile. Here he allowed each of 
them to pat him on the head, before turning and 
setting off at a run around the outskirts of the village. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione made their way back into 
Hogsmeade and up toward Hogwarts. 

“Wonder if Percy knows all that stuff about Crouch?” 
Ron said as they walked up the drive to the castle. 
“But maybe he doesn’t care ... it’d probably just make 
him admire Crouch even more. Yeah, Percy loves 
rules. He’d just say Crouch was refusing to break 
them for his own son.” 

“Percy would never throw any of his family to the 
dementors,” said Hermione severely. 



Page | 589 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t know,” said Ron. “If he thought we were 
standing in the way of his career . . . Percy’s really 
ambitious, you know. ...” 

They walked up the stone steps into the entrance 
hall, where the delicious smells of dinner wafted 
toward them from the Great Hall. 

“Poor old Snuffles,” said Ron, breathing deeply. “He 
must really like you, Harry. ... Imagine having to live 
off rats.” 



Page | 590 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE MADNESS OF MR. CROUCH 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery 
after breakfast on Sunday to send a letter to Percy, 
asking, as Sirius had suggested, whether he had seen 
Mr. Crouch lately. They used Hedwig, because it had 
been so long since she’d had a job. When they had 
watched her fly out of sight through the Owlery 
window, they proceeded down to the kitchen to give 
Dobby his new socks. 

The house-elves gave them a very cheery welcome, 
bowing and curtsying and bustling around making 
tea again. Dobby was ecstatic about his present. 

“Harry Potter is too good to Dobby!” he squeaked, 
wiping large tears out of his enormous eyes. 

“You saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you 
really did,” said Harry. 

“No chance of more of those eclairs, is there?” said 
Ron, who was looking around at the beaming and 
bowing house-elves. 

Page | 591 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“You’ve just had breakfast!” said Hermione irritably, 
but a great silver platter of eclairs was already 
zooming toward them, supported by four elves. 

“We should get some stuff to send up to Snuffles,” 
Harry muttered. 

“Good idea,” said Ron. “Give Pig something to do. You 
couldn’t give us a bit of extra food, could you?” he 
said to the surrounding elves, and they bowed 
delightedly and hurried off to get some more. 

“Dobby, where’s Winky?” said Hermione, who was 
looking around. 

“Winky is over there by the fire, miss,” said Dobby 
quietly, his ears drooping slightly. 

“Oh dear,” said Hermione as she spotted Winky. 

Harry looked over at the fireplace too. Winky was 
sitting on the same stool as last time, but she had 
allowed herself to become so filthy that she was not 
immediately distinguishable from the smoke- 
blackened brick behind her. Her clothes were ragged 
and unwashed. She was clutching a bottle of 
butterbeer and swaying slightly on her stool, staring 
into the fire. As they watched her, she gave an 
enormous hiccup. 

“Winky is getting through six bottles a day now,” 
Dobby whispered to Harry. 

“Well, it’s not strong, that stuff,” Harry said. 

But Dobby shook his head. “ Tis strong for a house- 
elf, sir,” he said. 



Page | 592 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Winky hiccuped again. The elves who had brought the 
eclairs gave her disapproving looks as they returned 
to work. 

“Winky is pining, Harry Potter,” Dobby whispered 
sadly. “Winky wants to go home. Winky still thinks 
Mr. Crouch is her master, sir, and nothing Dobby 
says will persuade her that Professor Dumbledore is 
her master now.” 

“Hey, Winky,” said Harry, struck by a sudden 
inspiration, walking over to her, and bending down, 
“you don’t know what Mr. Crouch might be up to, do 
you? Because he’s stopped turning up to judge the 
Triwizard Tournament.” 

Winky’s eyes flickered. Her enormous pupils focused 
on Harry. She swayed slightly again and then said, “M 
— Master is stopped — hie — coming?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “we haven’t seen him since the 
first task. The Daily Prophet’s saying he’s ill.” 

Winky swayed some more, staring blurrily at Harry. 

“Master — hie — ill?” 

Her bottom lip began to tremble. 

“But we’re not sure if that’s true,” said Hermione 
quickly. 

“Master is needing his — hie — Winky!” whimpered 
the elf. “Master cannot — hie — manage — hie — all 
by himself. ...” 

“Other people manage to do their own housework, 
you know, Winky,” Hermione said severely. 



Page | 593 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Winky — hie — is not only — hie — doing housework 
for Mr. Crouch!” Winky squeaked indignantly, 
swaying worse than ever and slopping butterbeer 
down her already heavily stained blouse. “Master is — 
hie — trusting Winky with — hie — the most 
important — hie — the most secret — ” 

“What?” said Harry. 

But Winky shook her head very hard, spilling more 
butterbeer down herself. 

“Winky keeps — hie — her master’s secrets,” she said 
mutinously, swaying very heavily now, frowning up at 
Harry with her eyes crossed. “You is — hie — nosing, 
you is.” 

“Winky must not talk like that to Harry Potter!” said 
Dobby angrily. “Harry Potter is brave and noble and 
Harry Potter is not nosy!” 

“He is nosing — hie — into my master’s — hie — 
private and secret — hie — Winky is a good house-elf 
— hie — Winky keeps her silence — hie — people 
trying to — hie — pry and poke — hie — ” 

Winky’s eyelids drooped and suddenly, without 
warning, she slid off her stool into the hearth, snoring 
loudly. The empty bottle of butterbeer rolled away 
across the stone-flagged floor. Half a dozen house- 
elves came hurrying forward, looking disgusted. One 
of them picked up the bottle; the others covered 
Winky with a large checked tablecloth and tucked the 
ends in neatly, hiding her from view. 

“We is sorry you had to see that, sirs and miss!” 
squeaked a nearby elf, shaking his head and looking 
very ashamed. “We is hoping you will not judge us all 
by Winky, sirs and miss!” 

Page | 594 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s unhappy!” said Hermione, exasperated. “Why 
don’t you try and cheer her up instead of covering her 
up?” 

“Begging your pardon, miss,” said the house-elf, 
bowing deeply again, “but house-elves has no right to 
be unhappy when there is work to be done and 
masters to be served.” 

“Oh for heaven’s sake!” Hermione cried. “Listen to me, 
all of you! You’ve got just as much right as wizards to 
be unhappy! You’ve got the right to wages and 
holidays and proper clothes, you don’t have to do 
everything you’re told — look at Dobby!” 

“Miss will please keep Dobby out of this,” Dobby 
mumbled, looking scared. The cheery smiles had 
vanished from the faces of the house-elves around the 
kitchen. They were suddenly looking at Hermione as 
though she were mad and dangerous. 

“We has your extra food!” squeaked an elf at Harry’s 
elbow, and he shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes, and 
some fruit into Harry’s arms. “Good-bye!” 

The house-elves crowded around Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione and began shunting them out of the 
kitchen, many little hands pushing in the smalls of 
their backs. 

“Thank you for the socks, Harry Potter!” Dobby called 
miserably from the hearth, where he was standing 
next to the lumpy tablecloth that was Winky. 

“You couldn’t keep your mouth shut, could you, 
Hermione?” said Ron angrily as the kitchen door 
slammed shut behind them. “They won’t want us 
visiting them now! We could’ve tried to get more stuff 
out of Winky about Crouch!” 

Page | 595 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh as if you care about that!” scoffed Hermione. “You 
only like coming down here for the food!” 

It was an irritable sort of day after that. Harry got so 
tired of Ron and Hermione sniping at each other over 
their homework in the common room that he took 
Sirius’s food up to the Owlery that evening on his 
own. 

Pigwidgeon was much too small to carry an entire 
ham up to the mountain by himself, so Harry enlisted 
the help of two school screech owls as well. When 
they had set off into the dusk, looking extremely odd 
carrying the large package between them, Harry 
leaned on the windowsill, looking out at the grounds, 
at the dark, rustling treetops of the Forbidden Forest, 
and the rippling sails of the Durmstrang ship. An 
eagle owl flew through the coil of smoke rising from 
Hagrid’s chimney; it soared toward the castle, around 
the Owlery, and out of sight. Looking down, Harry 
saw Hagrid digging energetically in front of his cabin. 
Harry wondered what he was doing; it looked as 
though he were making a new vegetable patch. As he 
watched, Madame Maxime emerged from the 
Beauxbatons carriage and walked over to Hagrid. She 
appeared to be trying to engage him in conversation. 
Hagrid leaned upon his spade, but did not seem keen 
to prolong their talk, because Madame Maxime 
returned to the carriage shortly afterward. 

Unwilling to go back to Gryffindor Tower and listen to 
Ron and Hermione snarling at each other, Harry 
watched Hagrid digging until the darkness swallowed 
him and the owls around Harry began to awake, 
swooshing past him into the night. 

By breakfast the next day Ron’s and Hermione’s bad 
moods had burnt out, and to Harry’s relief, Ron’s 
dark predictions that the house-elves would send 

Page | 596 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




substandard food up to the Gryffindor table because 
Hermione had insulted them proved false; the bacon, 
eggs, and kippers were quite as good as usual. 

When the post owls arrived, Hermione looked up 
eagerly; she seemed to be expecting something. 

“Percy won’t’ve had time to answer yet,” said Ron. “We 
only sent Hedwig yesterday.” 

“No, it’s not that,” said Hermione. “I’ve taken out a 
subscription to the Daily Prophet I’m getting sick of 
finding everything out from the Slytherins.” 

“Good thinking!” said Harry, also looking up at the 
owls. “Hey, Hermione, I think you’re in luck — ” 

A gray owl was soaring down toward Hermione. 

“It hasn’t got a newspaper, though,” she said, looking 
disappointed. “It’s — ” 

But to her bewilderment, the gray owl landed in front 
of her plate, closely followed by four barn owls, a 
brown owl, and a tawny. 

“How many subscriptions did you take out?” said 
Harry, seizing Hermione ’s goblet before it was 
knocked over by the cluster of owls, all of whom were 
jostling close to her, trying to deliver their own letter 
first. 

“What on earth — ?” Hermione said, taking the letter 
from the gray owl, opening it, and starting to read. 

“Oh really!” she sputtered, going rather red. 

“What’s up?” said Ron. 

“It’s — oh how ridiculous — ” 

Page | 597 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She thrust the letter at Harry, who saw that it was 
not handwritten, but composed from pasted letters 
that seemed to have been cut out of the Daily Prophet. 

You are a WickEd giRL. HarRy PotTER desErves 

BeTteR. GO back wherE you cAMe from mUGgle. 

“They’re all like it!” said Hermione desperately, 
opening one letter after another. “ ‘Harry Potter can do 
much better than the likes of you. ...’ ‘You deserve to 
be boiled in frog spawn. ...’ Ouch!” 

She had opened the last envelope, and yellowish- 
green liquid smelling strongly of petrol gushed over 
her hands, which began to erupt in large yellow boils. 

“Undiluted bubotuber pus!” said Ron, picking up the 
envelope gingerly and sniffing it. 

“Ow!” said Hermione, tears starting in her eyes as she 
tried to rub the pus off her hands with a napkin, but 
her fingers were now so thickly covered in painful 
sores that it looked as though she were wearing a pair 
of thick, knobbly gloves. 

“You’d better get up to the hospital wing,” said Harry 
as the owls around Hermione took flight. “We’ll tell 
Professor Sprout where you’ve gone. ...” 

“I warned her!” said Ron as Hermione hurried out of 
the Great Hall, cradling her hands. “I warned her not 
to annoy Rita Skeeter! Look at this one ...” He read 
out one of the letters Hermione had left behind: “ ‘I 
read in Witch Weekly about how you are playing 
Harry Potter false and that boy has had enough 
hardship and I will be sending you a curse by next 



Page | 598 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




post as soon as I can find a big enough envelope.’ 
Blimey, she’d better watch out for herself.” 

Hermione didn’t turn up for Herbology. As Harry and 
Ron left the greenhouse for their Care of Magical 
Creatures class, they saw Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle 
descending the stone steps of the castle. Pansy 
Parkinson was whispering and giggling behind them 
with her gang of Slytherin girls. Catching sight of 
Harry, Pansy called, “Potter, have you split up with 
your girlfriend? Why was she so upset at breakfast?” 

Harry ignored her; he didn’t want to give her the 
satisfaction of knowing how much trouble the Witch 
Weekly article had caused. 

Hagrid, who had told them last lesson that they had 
finished with unicorns, was waiting for them outside 
his cabin with a fresh supply of open crates at his 
feet. Harry’s heart sank at the sight of the crates — 
surely not another skrewt hatching? — but when he 
got near enough to see inside, he found himself 
looking at a number of fluffy black creatures with 
long snouts. Their front paws were curiously flat, like 
spades, and they were blinking up at the class, 
looking politely puzzled at all the attention. 

“These’re nifflers,” said Hagrid, when the class had 
gathered around. “Yeh find ’em down mines mostly. 
They like sparkly stuff. ... There yeh go, look.” 

One of the nifflers had suddenly leapt up and 
attempted to bite Pansy Parkinson’s watch off her 
wrist. She shrieked and jumped backward. 

“Useful little treasure detectors,” said Hagrid happily. 
“Thought we’d have some fun with ’em today. See over 
there?” He pointed at the large patch of freshly turned 
earth Harry had watched him digging from the Owlery 

Page | 599 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




window. “I’ve buried some gold coins. I’ve got a prize 
fer whoever picks the niffler that digs up most. Jus’ 
take off all yer valuables, an’ choose a niffler, an’ get 
ready ter set ’em loose.” 

Harry took off his watch, which he was only wearing 
out of habit, as it didn’t work anymore, and stuffed it 
into his pocket. Then he picked up a niffler. It put its 
long snout in Harry’s ear and sniffed enthusiastically. 
It was really quite cuddly. 

“Hang on,” said Hagrid, looking down into the crate, 
“there’s a spare niffler here ... who’s missin’? Where’s 
Hermione?” 

“She had to go to the hospital wing,” said Ron. 

“Well explain later,” Harry muttered; Pansy 
Parkinson was listening. 

It was easily the most fun they had ever had in Care 
of Magical Creatures. The nifflers dived in and out of 
the patch of earth as though it were water, each 
scurrying back to the student who had released it and 
spitting gold into their hands. Ron’s was particularly 
efficient; it had soon filled his lap with coins. 

“Can you buy these as pets, Hagrid?” he asked 
excitedly as his niffler dived back into the soil, 
splattering his robes. 

“Yer mum wouldn’ be happy, Ron,” said Hagrid, 
grinning. “They wreck houses, nifflers. I reckon 
they’ve nearly got the lot, now,” he added, pacing 
around the patch of earth while the nifflers continued 
to dive. “I on’y buried a hundred coins. Oh there 
y’are, Hermione!” 



Page | 600 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione was walking toward them across the lawn. 
Her hands were very heavily bandaged and she looked 
miserable. Pansy Parkinson was watching her 
beadily. 

“Well, let’s check how yeh’ve done!” said Hagrid. 
“Count yer coins! An’ there’s no point tryin’ ter steal 
any, Goyle,” he added, his beetle-black eyes 
narrowed. “It’s leprechaun gold. Vanishes after a few 
hours.” 

Goyle emptied his pockets, looking extremely sulky. It 
turned out that Ron’s niffler had been most 
successful, so Hagrid gave him an enormous slab of 
Honeydukes chocolate for a prize. The bell rang 
across the grounds for lunch; the rest of the class set 
off back to the castle, but Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
stayed behind to help Hagrid put the nifflers back in 
their boxes. Harry noticed Madame Maxime watching 
them out of her carriage window. 

“What yeh done ter your hands, Hermione?” said 
Hagrid, looking concerned. 

Hermione told him about the hate mail she had 
received that morning, and the envelope full of 
bubotuber pus. 

“Aaah, don’ worry,” said Hagrid gently, looking down 
at her. “I got some o’ those letters an’ all, after Rita 
Skeeter wrote abou’ me mum. ‘Yeh’re a monster an’ 
yeh should be put down.’ ‘Yer mother killed innocent 
people an’ if you had any decency you’d jump in a 
lake. ’ ” 

“No!” said Hermione, looking shocked. 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, heaving the niffler crates over by 
his cabin wall. “They’re jus’ nutters, Hermione. Don’ 

Page | 601 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




open ’em if yeh get any more. Chuck ’em straigh’ in 
the fire.” 



“You missed a really good lesson,” Harry told 
Hermione as they headed back toward the castle. 
“They’re good, nifflers, aren’t they, Ron?” 

Ron, however, was frowning at the chocolate Hagrid 
had given him. He looked thoroughly put out about 
something. 

“What’s the matter?” said Harry. “Wrong flavor?” 

“No,” said Ron shortly. “Why didn’t you tell me about 
the gold?” 

“What gold?” said Harry. 

“The gold I gave you at the Quidditch World Cup,” 
said Ron. “The leprechaun gold I gave you for my 
Omnioculars. In the Top Box. Why didn’t you tell me 
it disappeared?” 

Harry had to think for a moment before he realized 
what Ron was talking about. 

“Oh ...” he said, the memory coming back to him at 
last. “I dunno ... I never noticed it had gone. I was 
more worried about my wand, wasn’t I?” 

They climbed the steps into the entrance hall and 
went into the Great Hall for lunch. 

“Must be nice,” Ron said abruptly, when they had sat 
down and started serving themselves roast beef and 
Yorkshire puddings. “To have so much money you 
don’t notice if a pocketful of Galleons goes missing.” 



Page | 602 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Listen, I had other stuff on my mind that night!” said 
Harry impatiently. “We all did, remember?” 



“I didn’t know leprechaun gold vanishes,” Ron 
muttered. “I thought I was paying you back. You 
shouldn’t ’ve given me that Chudley Cannon hat for 
Christmas.” 

“Forget it, all right?” said Harry. 

Ron speared a roast potato on the end of his fork, 
glaring at it. Then he said, “I hate being poor.” 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other. Neither of 
them really knew what to say. 

“It’s rubbish,” said Ron, still glaring down at his 
potato. “I don’t blame Fred and George for trying to 
make some extra money. Wish I could. Wish I had a 
niffler.” 

“Well, we know what to get you next Christmas,” said 
Hermione brightly. Then, when Ron continued to look 
gloomy, she said, “Come on, Ron, it could be worse. 

At least your fingers aren’t full of pus.” Hermione was 
having a lot of difficulty managing her knife and fork, 
her fingers were so stiff and swollen. “I hate that 
Skeeter woman!” she burst out savagely. “I’ll get her 
back for this if it’s the last thing I do!” 



Hate mail continued to arrive for Hermione over the 
following week, and although she followed Hagrid’s 
advice and stopped opening it, several of her ill- 
wishers sent Howlers, which exploded at the 
Gryffindor table and shrieked insults at her for the 
whole Hall to hear. Even those people who didn’t read 
Witch Weekly knew all about the supposed Harry- 
Page | 603 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Krum-Hermione triangle now. Harry was getting sick 
of telling people that Hermione wasn’t his girlfriend. 

“It’ll die down, though,” he told Hermione, “if we just 
ignore it. ... People got bored with that stuff she wrote 
about me last time — ” 

“I want to know how she’s listening into private 
conversations when she’s supposed to be banned 
from the grounds!” said Hermione angrily. 

Hermione hung back in their next Defense Against 
the Dark Arts lesson to ask Professor Moody 
something. The rest of the class was very eager to 
leave; Moody had given them such a rigorous test of 
hex-deflection that many of them were nursing small 
injuries. Harry had such a bad case of Twitchy Ears, 
he had to hold his hands clamped over them as he 
walked away from the class. 

“Well, Rita’s definitely not using an Invisibility Cloak!” 
Hermione panted five minutes later, catching up with 
Harry and Ron in the entrance hall and pulling 
Harry’s hand away from one of his wiggling ears so 
that he could hear her. “Moody says he didn’t see her 
anywhere near the judges’ table at the second task, or 
anywhere near the lake!” 

“Hermione, is there any point in telling you to drop 
this?” said Ron. 

“No!” said Hermione stubbornly. “I want to know how 
she heard me talking to Viktor! And how she found 
out about Hagrid’s mum!” 

“Maybe she had you bugged,” said Harry. 

“Bugged?” said Ron blankly. “What ... put fleas on her 
or something?” 

Page | 604 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry started explaining about hidden microphones 
and recording equipment. Ron was fascinated, but 
Hermione interrupted them. 

“Aren’t you two ever going to read Hogwarts, A 
History?” 

“What’s the point?” said Ron. “You know it by heart, 
we can just ask you.” 

“All those substitutes for magic Muggles use — 
electricity, computers, and radar, and all those things 
— they all go haywire around Hogwarts, there’s too 
much magic in the air. No, Rita’s using magic to 
eavesdrop, she must be. ... If I could just find out 
what it is ... ooh, if it’s illegal, I’ll have her ...” 

“Haven’t we got enough to worry about?” Ron asked 
her. “Do we have to start a vendetta against Rita 
Skeeter as well?” 

“I’m not asking you to help!” Hermione snapped. “I’ll 
do it on my own!” 

She marched back up the marble staircase without a 
backward glance. Harry was quite sure she was going 
to the library. 

“What’s the betting she comes back with a box of / 
Hate Rita Skeeter badges?” said Ron. 

Hermione, however, did not ask Harry and Ron to 
help her pursue vengeance against Rita Skeeter, for 
which they were both grateful, because their workload 
was mounting ever higher in the days before the 
Easter holidays. Harry frankly marveled at the fact 
that Hermione could research magical methods of 
eavesdropping as well as everything else they had to 
do. He was working flat-out just to get through all 
Page | 605 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




their homework, though he made a point of sending 
regular food packages up to the cave in the mountain 
for Sirius; after last summer, Harry had not forgotten 
what it felt like to be continually hungry. He enclosed 
notes to Sirius, telling him that nothing out of the 
ordinary had happened, and that they were still 
waiting for an answer from Percy. 

Hedwig didn’t return until the end of the Easter 
holidays. Percy’s letter was enclosed in a package of 
Easter eggs that Mrs. Weasley had sent. Both Harry’s 
and Ron’s were the size of dragon eggs and full of 
homemade toffee. Hermione’s, however, was smaller 
