
Everyone except Percy and Mrs. Weasley snorted into 
their pudding. 

“Why are the Ministry providing cars, Father?” Percy 
asked again, in a dignified voice. 

“Well, as we haven’t got one anymore,” said Mr. 
Weasley, “ — and as I work there, they’re doing me a 
favor — ” 

His voice was casual, but Harry couldn’t help noticing 
that Mr. Weasley’s ears had gone red, just like Ron’s 
did when he was under pressure. 

“Good thing, too,” said Mrs. Weasley briskly. “Do you 
realize how much luggage you’ve all got between you? 
A nice sight you’d be on the Muggle Underground. ... 
You are all packed, aren’t you?” 

“Ron hasn’t put all his new things in his trunk yet,” 
said Percy, in a long-suffering voice. “He’s dumped 
them on my bed.” 

“You’d better go and pack properly, Ron, because we 
won’t have much time in the morning,” Mrs. Weasley 
called down the table. Ron scowled at Percy. 

After dinner everyone felt very full and sleepy. One by 
one they made their way upstairs to their rooms to 
check their things for the next day. Ron and Percy 
were next door to Harry. He had just closed and 
locked his own trunk when he heard angry voices 
through the wall, and went to see what was going on. 
Page | 70 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The door of number twelve was ajar and Percy was 
shouting. 

“It was here, on the bedside table, I took it off for 
polishing — ” 

“I haven’t touched it, all right?” Ron roared back. 
“What’s up?” said Harry. 

“My Head Boy badge is gone,” said Percy, rounding on 
Harry. 

“So’s Scabbers’s rat tonic,” said Ron, throwing things 
out of his trunk to look. “I think I might’ve left it in 
the bar — ” 

“You’re not going anywhere till you’ve found my 
badge!” yelled Percy. 

“I’ll get Scabbers’s stuff, I’m packed,” Harry said to 
Ron, and he went downstairs. 

Harry was halfway along the passage to the bar, 
which was now very dark, when he heard another 
pair of angry voices coming from the parlor. A second 
later, he recognized them as Mr. and Mrs. Weasleys’. 
He hesitated, not wanting them to know he’d heard 
them arguing, when the sound of his own name made 
him stop, then move closer to the parlor door. 

“... makes no sense not to tell him,” Mr. Weasley was 
saying heatedly. “Harry’s got a right to know. I’ve tried 
to tell Fudge, but he insists on treating Harry like a 
child. He’s thirteen years old and — ” 

“Arthur, the truth would terrify him!” said Mrs. 
Weasley shrilly. “Do you really want to send Harry 



Page | 71 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




back to school with that hanging over him? For 
heaven’s sake, he’s happy not knowing!” 

“I don’t want to make him miserable, I want to put 
him on his guard!” retorted Mr. Weasley. “You know 
what Harry and Ron are like, wandering off by 
themselves — they’ve even ended up in the Forbidden 
Forest! But Harry mustn’t do that this year! When I 
think what could have happened to him that night he 
ran away from home! If the Knight Bus hadn’t picked 
him up, I’m prepared to bet he would have been dead 
before the Ministry found him.” 

“But he’s not dead, he’s fine, so what’s the point — ” 

“Molly, they say Sirius Black’s mad, and maybe he is, 
but he was clever enough to escape from Azkaban, 
and that’s supposed to be impossible. It’s been a 
month, and no one’s seen hide nor hair of him, and I 
don’t care what Fudge keeps telling the Daily Prophet, 
we’re no nearer catching Black than inventing self- 
spelling wands. The only thing we know for sure is 
what Black’s after — ” 

“But Harry will be perfectly safe at Hogwarts.” 

“We thought Azkaban was perfectly safe. If Black can 
break out of Azkaban, he can break into Hogwarts.” 

“But no one’s really sure that Black’s after Harry — ” 

There was a thud on wood, and Harry was sure Mr. 
Weasley had banged his fist on the table. 

“Molly, how many times do I have to tell you? They 
didn’t report it in the press because Fudge wanted it 
kept quiet, but Fudge went out to Azkaban the night 
Black escaped. The guards told Fudge that Black’s 
been talking in his sleep for a while now. Always the 
Page | 72 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




same words: ‘He’s at Hogwarts ... he’s at Hogwarts.’ 
Black is deranged, Molly, and he wants Harry dead. If 
you ask me, he thinks murdering Harry will bring 
You-Know-Who back to power. Black lost everything 
the night Harry stopped You-Know-Who, and he’s had 
twelve years alone in Azkaban to brood on that. ...” 

There was a silence. Harry leaned still closer to the 
door, desperate to hear more. 

“Well, Arthur, you must do what you think is right. 
But you’re forgetting Albus Dumbledore. I don’t think 
anything could hurt Harry at Hogwarts while 
Dumbledore ’s headmaster. I suppose he knows about 
all this?” 

“Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he minds 
the Azkaban guards stationing themselves around the 
entrances to the school grounds. He wasn’t happy 
about it, but he agreed.” 

“Not happy? Why shouldn’t he be happy, if they’re 
there to catch Black?” 

“Dumbledore isn’t fond of the Azkaban guards,” said 
Mr. Weasley heavily. “Nor am I, if it comes to that ... 
but when you’re dealing with a wizard like Black, you 
sometimes have to join forces with those you’d rather 
avoid.” 

“If they save Harry — ” 

“ — then I will never say another word against them,” 
said Mr. Weasley wearily. “It’s late, Molly, we’d better 
go up. ...” 

Harry heard chairs move. As quietly as he could, he 
hurried down the passage to the bar and out of sight. 
The parlor door opened, and a few seconds later 

Page | 73 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




footsteps told him that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were 
climbing the stairs. 



The bottle of rat tonic was lying under the table they 
had sat at earlier. Harry waited until he heard Mr. 
and Mrs. Weasley’s bedroom door close, then headed 
back upstairs with the bottle. 

Fred and George were crouching in the shadows on 
the landing, heaving with laughter as they listened to 
Percy dismantling his and Ron’s room in search of his 
badge. 

“We’ve got it,” Fred whispered to Harry. “We’ve been 
improving it.” 

The badge now read BigheacL Boy. 

Harry forced a laugh, went to give Ron the rat tonic, 
then shut himself in his room and lay down on his 
bed. 

So Sirius Black was after him. This explained 
everything. Fudge had been lenient with him because 
he was so relieved to find him alive. He’d made Harry 
promise to stay in Diagon Alley where there were 
plenty of wizards to keep an eye on him. And he was 
sending two Ministry cars to take them all to the 
station tomorrow, so that the Weasleys could look 
after Harry until he was on the train. 

Harry lay listening to the muffled shouting next door 
and wondered why he didn’t feel more scared. Sirius 
Black had murdered thirteen people with one curse; 
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley obviously thought Harry would 
be panic-stricken if he knew the truth. But Harry 
happened to agree wholeheartedly with Mrs. Weasley 
that the safest place on earth was wherever Albus 
Dumbledore happened to be. Didn’t people always say 
Page | 74 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




that Dumbledore was the only person Lord Voldemort 
had ever been afraid of? Surely Black, as Voldemort’s 
right-hand man, would be just as frightened of him? 

And then there were these Azkaban guards everyone 
kept talking about. They seemed to scare most people 
senseless, and if they were stationed all around the 
school, Black’s chances of getting inside seemed very 
remote. 

No, all in all, the thing that bothered Harry most was 
the fact that his chances of visiting Hogsmeade now 
looked like zero. Nobody would want Harry to leave 
the safety of the castle until Black was caught; in 
fact, Harry suspected his every move would be 
carefully watched until the danger had passed. 

He scowled at the dark ceiling. Did they think he 
couldn’t look after himself? He’d escaped Lord 
Voldemort three times; he wasn’t completely useless. 



Unbidden, the image of the beast in the shadows of 
Magnolia Crescent crossed his mind. What to do when 
you know the worst is coming. . . . 

“I’m not going to be murdered,” Harry said out loud. 

“That’s the spirit, dear,” said his mirror sleepily. 



Page | 75 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




5 




THE DEMENTOR 

Tom woke Harry the next morning with his usual 
toothless grin and a cup of tea. Harry got dressed and 
was just persuading a disgruntled Hedwig to get back 
into her cage when Ron banged his way into the 
room, pulling a sweatshirt over his head and looking 
irritable. 

“The sooner we get on the train, the better,” he said. 
“At least I can get away from Percy at Hogwarts. Now 
he’s accusing me of dripping tea on his photo of 
Penelope Clearwater. You know,” Ron grimaced, “his 
girlfriend. She’s hidden her face under the frame 
because her nose has gone all blotchy. ...” 

“I’ve got something to tell you,” Harry began, but they 
were interrupted by Fred and George, who had looked 
in to congratulate Ron on infuriating Percy again. 

They headed down to breakfast, where Mr. Weasley 
was reading the front page of the Daily Prophet with a 
furrowed brow and Mrs. Weasley was telling 

Page | 76 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Hermione and Ginny about a love potion she’d made 
as a young girl. All three of them were rather giggly. 

“What were you saying?” Ron asked Harry as they sat 
down. 

“Later,” Harry muttered as Percy stormed in. 

Harry had no chance to speak to Ron or Hermione in 
the chaos of leaving; they were too busy heaving all 
their trunks down the Leaky Cauldron’s narrow 
staircase and piling them up near the door, with 
Hedwig and Hermes, Percy’s screech owl, perched on 
top in their cages. A small wickerwork basket stood 
beside the heap of trunks, spitting loudly. 

“It’s all right, Crookshanks,” Hermione cooed through 
the wickerwork. “I’ll let you out on the train.” 

“You won’t,” snapped Ron. “What about poor 
Scabbers, eh?” 

He pointed at his chest, where a large lump indicated 
that Scabbers was curled up in his pocket. 

Mr. Weasley, who had been outside waiting for the 
Ministry cars, stuck his head inside. 

“They’re here,” he said. “Harry, come on.” 

Mr. Weasley marched Harry across the short stretch 
of pavement toward the first of two old-fashioned dark 
green cars, each of which was driven by a furtive- 
looking wizard wearing a suit of emerald velvet. 

“In you get, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, glancing up and 
down the crowded street. 



Page | 77 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry got into the back of the car and was shortly 
joined by Hermione, Ron, and, to Ron’s disgust, 

Percy. 

The journey to King’s Cross was very uneventful 
compared with Harry’s trip on the Knight Bus. The 
Ministry of Magic cars seemed almost ordinary, 
though Harry noticed that they could slide through 
gaps that Uncle Vernon’s new company car certainly 
couldn’t have managed. They reached King’s Cross 
with twenty minutes to spare; the Ministry drivers 
found them trolleys, unloaded their trunks, touched 
their hats in salute to Mr. Weasley, and drove away, 
somehow managing to jump to the head of an 
unmoving line at the traffic lights. 

Mr. Weasley kept close to Harry’s elbow all the way 
into the station. 

“Right then,” he said, glancing around them. “Let’s do 
this in pairs, as there are so many of us. I’ll go 
through first with Harry.” 

Mr. Weasley strolled toward the barrier between 
platforms nine and ten, pushing Harry’s trolley and 
apparently very interested in the Intercity 125 that 
had just arrived at platform nine. With a meaningful 
look at Harry, he leaned casually against the barrier. 
Harry imitated him. 

In a moment, they had fallen sideways through the 
solid metal onto platform nine and three-quarters and 
looked up to see the Hogwarts Express, a scarlet 
steam engine, puffing smoke over a platform packed 
with witches and wizards seeing their children onto 
the train. 



Page | 78 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Percy and Ginny suddenly appeared behind Harry. 
They were panting and had apparently taken the 
barrier at a run. 

“Ah, there’s Penelope!” said Percy, smoothing his hair 
and going pink again. Ginny caught Harry’s eye, and 
they both turned away to hide their laughter as Percy 
strode over to a girl with long, curly hair, walking with 
his chest thrown out so that she couldn’t miss his 
shiny badge. 

Once the remaining Weasleys and Hermione had 
joined them, Harry and Ron led the way to the end of 
the train, past packed compartments, to a carriage 
that looked quite empty. They loaded the trunks onto 
it, stowed Hedwig and Crookshanks in the luggage 
rack, then went back outside to say good-bye to Mr. 
and Mrs. Weasley. 

Mrs. Weasley kissed all her children, then Hermione, 
and finally, Harry. He was embarrassed, but really 
quite pleased, when she gave him an extra hug. 

“Do take care, won’t you, Harry?” she said as she 
straightened up, her eyes oddly bright. Then she 
opened her enormous handbag and said, “I’ve made 
you all sandwiches. ... Here you are, Ron ... no, 
they’re not corned beef. ... Fred? Where’s Fred? Here 
you are, dear. ...” 

“Harry,” said Mr. Weasley quietly, “come over here a 
moment.” 

He jerked his head toward a pillar, and Harry followed 
him behind it, leaving the others crowded around 
Mrs. Weasley. 

“There’s something I’ve got to tell you before you leave 
— ” said Mr. Weasley, in a tense voice. 

Page | 79 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s all right, Mr. Weasley,” said Harry. “I already 
know.” 

“You know? How could you know?” 

“I — er — I heard you and Mrs. Weasley talking last 
night. I couldn’t help hearing,” Harry added quickly. 
“Sorry — ” 

“That’s not the way I’d have chosen for you to find 
out,” said Mr. Weasley, looking anxious. 

“No — honestly, it’s okay. This way, you haven’t 
broken your word to Fudge and I know what’s going 
on.” 

“Harry, you must be very scared — ” 

“I’m not,” said Harry sincerely. “Really” he added, 
because Mr. Weasley was looking disbelieving. “I’m 
not trying to be a hero, but seriously, Sirius Black 
can’t be worse than Voldemort, can he?” 

Mr. Weasley flinched at the sound of the name but 
overlooked it. 

“Harry, I knew you were, well, made of stronger stuff 
than Fudge seems to think, and I’m obviously pleased 
that you’re not scared, but — ” 

“Arthur!” called Mrs. Weasley, who was now 
shepherding the rest onto the train. “Arthur, what are 
you doing? It’s about to go!” 

“He’s coming, Molly!” said Mr. Weasley but he turned 
back to Harry and kept talking in a lower and more 
hurried voice. “Listen, I want you to give me your 
word — ” 



Page | 80 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ — that I’ll be a good boy and stay in the castle?” said 
Harry gloomily. 

“Not entirely,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked more 
serious than Harry had ever seen him. “Harry, swear 
to me you won’t go looking for Black.” 

Harry stared. “What?” 

There was a loud whistle. Guards were walking along 
the train, slamming all the doors shut. 

“Promise me, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, talking more 
quickly still, “that whatever happens — ” 

“Why would I go looking for someone I know wants to 
kill me?” said Harry blankly. 

“Swear to me that whatever you might hear — ” 

“Arthur, quickly!” cried Mrs. Weasley. 

Steam was billowing from the train; it had started to 
move. Harry ran to the compartment door and Ron 
threw it open and stood back to let him on. They 
leaned out of the window and waved at Mr. and Mrs. 
Weasley until the train turned a corner and blocked 
them from view. 

“I need to talk to you in private,” Harry muttered to 
Ron and Hermione as the train picked up speed. 

“Go away, Ginny,” said Ron. 

“Oh, that’s nice,” said Ginny huffily, and she stalked 
off. 



Page | 81 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off down the corridor, 
looking for an empty compartment, but all were full 
except for the one at the very end of the train. 

This had only one occupant, a man sitting fast asleep 
next to the window. Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
checked on the threshold. The Hogwarts Express was 
usually reserved for students and they had never seen 
an adult there before, except for the witch who 
pushed the food cart. 

The stranger was wearing an extremely shabby set of 
wizard’s robes that had been darned in several places. 
He looked ill and exhausted. Though quite young, his 
light brown hair was flecked with gray. 

“Who d’you reckon he is?” Ron hissed as they sat 
down and slid the door shut, taking the seats farthest 
away from the window. 

“Professor R. J. Lupin,” whispered Hermione at once. 
“How d’you know that?” 

“It’s on his case,” she replied, pointing at the luggage 
rack over the man’s head, where there was a small, 
battered case held together with a large quantity of 
neatly knotted string. The name Professor R. J. Lupin 
was stamped across one corner in peeling letters. 

“Wonder what he teaches?” said Ron, frowning at 
Professor Lupin’s pallid profile. 

“That’s obvious,” whispered Hermione. “There’s only 
one vacancy, isn’t there? Defense Against the Dark 
Arts.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione had already had two 
Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers, both of 

Page | 82 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




whom had lasted only one year. There were rumors 
that the job was jinxed. 

“Well, I hope he’s up to it,” said Ron doubtfully. “He 
looks like one good hex would finish him off, doesn’t 
he? Anyway ...” He turned to Harry. “What were you 
going to tell us?” 

Harry explained all about Mr. and Mrs. Weasley’s 
argument and the warning Mr. Weasley had just 
given him. When he’d finished, Ron looked 
thunderstruck, and Hermione had her hands over her 
mouth. She finally lowered them to say, “Sirius Black 
escaped to come after you? Oh, Harry ... you’ll have to 
be really, really careful. Don’t go looking for trouble, 
Harry — ” 

“I don’t go looking for trouble,” said Harry, nettled. 
“Trouble usually finds me.” 

“How thick would Harry have to be, to go looking for a 
nutter who wants to kill him?” said Ron shakily. 

They were taking the news worse than Harry had 
expected. Both Ron and Hermione seemed to be much 
more frightened of Black than he was. 

“No one knows how he got out of Azkaban,” said Ron 
uncomfortably. “No one’s ever done it before. And he 
was a top-security prisoner too.” 

“But they’ll catch him, won’t they?” said Hermione 
earnestly. “I mean, they’ve got all the Muggles looking 
out for him too. ...” 

“What’s that noise?” said Ron suddenly. 

A faint, tinny sort of whistle was coming from 
somewhere. They looked all around the compartment. 

Page | 83 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s coming from your trunk, Harry,” said Ron, 
standing up and reaching into the luggage rack. A 
moment later he had pulled the Pocket Sneakoscope 
out from between Harry’s robes. It was spinning very 
fast in the palm of Ron’s hand and glowing brilliantly. 

“Is that a Sneakoscope?” said Hermione interestedly, 
standing up for a better look. 

“Yeah ... mind you, it’s a very cheap one,” Ron said. 

“It went haywire just as I was tying it to Errol’s leg to 
send it to Harry.” 

“Were you doing anything untrustworthy at the time?” 
said Hermione shrewdly. 

“No! Well ... I wasn’t supposed to be using Errol. You 
know he’s not really up to long journeys ... but how 
else was I supposed to get Harry’s present to him?” 

“Stick it back in the trunk,” Harry advised as the 
Sneakoscope whistled piercingly, “or it’ll wake him 
up.” 

He nodded toward Professor Lupin. Ron stuffed the 
Sneakoscope into a particularly horrible pair of Uncle 
Vernon’s old socks, which deadened the sound, then 
closed the lid of the trunk on it. 

“We could get it checked in Hogsmeade,” said Ron, 
sitting back down. “They sell that sort of thing in 
Dervish and Banges, magical instruments and stuff. 
Fred and George told me.” 

“Do you know much about Hogsmeade?” asked 
Hermione keenly. “I’ve read it’s the only entirely non- 
Muggle settlement in Britain — ” 



Page | 84 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, I think it is,” said Ron in an offhand sort of 
way, “but that’s not why I want to go. I just want to 
get inside Honeydukes!” 

“What’s that?” said Hermione. 

“It’s this sweetshop,” said Ron, a dreamy look coming 
over his face, “where they’ve got everything. ... Pepper 
Imps — they make you smoke at the mouth — and 
great fat Chocoballs full of strawberry mousse and 
clotted cream, and really excellent sugar quills, which 
you can suck in class and just look like you’re 
thinking what to write next — ” 

“But Hogsmeade’s a very interesting place, isn’t it?” 
Hermione pressed on eagerly. “In Sites of Historical 
Sorcery it says the inn was the headquarters for the 
1612 goblin rebellion, and the Shrieking Shack’s 
supposed to be the most severely haunted building in 
Britain — ” 

“ — and massive sherbet balls that make you levitate a 
few inches off the ground while you’re sucking them,” 
said Ron, who was plainly not listening to a word 
Hermione was saying. 

Hermione looked around at Harry. 

“Won’t it be nice to get out of school for a bit and 
explore Hogsmeade?” 

“ ’Spect it will,” said Harry heavily. “You’ll have to tell 
me when you’ve found out.” 

“What d’you mean?” said Ron. 

“I can’t go. The Dursleys didn’t sign my permission 
form, and Fudge wouldn’t either.” 



Page | 85 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Ron looked horrified. 



“You’re not allowed to come? But — no way — 
McGonagall or someone will give you permission — ” 

Harry gave a hollow laugh. Professor McGonagall, 
head of Gryffindor House, was very strict. 

“ — or we can ask Fred and George, they know every 
secret passage out of the castle — ” 

“Ron!” said Hermione sharply. “I don’t think Harry 
should be sneaking out of school with Black on the 
loose — ” 

“Yeah, I expect that’s what McGonagall will say when 
I ask for permission,” said Harry bitterly. 

“But if we’re with him,” said Ron spiritedly to 
Hermione, “Black wouldn’t dare — ” 

“Oh, Ron, don’t talk rubbish,” snapped Hermione. 
“Black’s already murdered a whole bunch of people in 
the middle of a crowded street. Do you really think 
he’s going to worry about attacking Harry just 
because we’re there?” 

She was fumbling with the straps of Crookshanks’s 
basket as she spoke. 

“Don’t let that thing out!” Ron said, but too late; 
Crookshanks leapt lightly from the basket, stretched, 
yawned, and sprang onto Ron’s knees; the lump in 
Ron’s pocket trembled and he shoved Crookshanks 
angrily away. 

“Get out of here!” 

“Ron, don’t!” said Hermione angrily. 

Page | 86 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Ron was about to answer back when Professor Lupin 
stirred. They watched him apprehensively, but he 
simply turned his head the other way, mouth slightly 
open, and slept on. 

The Hogwarts Express moved steadily north and the 
scenery outside the window became wilder and darker 
while the clouds overhead thickened. People were 
chasing backward and forward past the door of their 
compartment. Crookshanks had now settled in an 
empty seat, his squashed face turned toward Ron, his 
yellow eyes on Ron’s top pocket. 

At one o’clock, the plump witch with the food cart 
arrived at the compartment door. 

“D’you think we should wake him up?” Ron asked 
awkwardly, nodding toward Professor Lupin. “He 
looks like he could do with some food.” 

Hermione approached Professor Lupin cautiously. 

“Er — Professor?” she said. “Excuse me — Professor?” 

He didn’t move. 

“Don’t worry, dear,” said the witch as she handed 
Harry a large stack of Cauldron Cakes. “If he’s hungry 
when he wakes, I’ll be up front with the driver.” 

“I suppose he is asleep?” said Ron quietly as the witch 
slid the compartment door closed. “I mean — he 
hasn’t died, has he?” 

“No, no, he’s breathing,” whispered Hermione, taking 
the Cauldron Cake Harry passed her. 

He might not be very good company, but Professor 
Lupin’s presence in their compartment had its uses. 

Page | 87 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Midafternoon, just as it had started to rain, blurring 
the rolling hills outside the window, they heard 
footsteps in the corridor again, and their three least 
favorite people appeared at the door: Draco Malfoy, 
flanked by his cronies, Vincent Crabbe and Gregory 
Goyle. 

Draco Malfoy and Harry had been enemies ever since 
they had met on their very first train journey to 
Hogwarts. Malfoy, who had a pale, pointed, sneering 
face, was in Slytherin House; he played Seeker on the 
Slytherin Quidditch team, the same position that 
Harry played on the Gryffindor team. Crabbe and 
Goyle seemed to exist to do Malfoy’s bidding. They 
were both wide and musclely; Crabbe was taller, with 
a pudding-bowl haircut and a very thick neck; Goyle 
had short, bristly hair and long, gorilla-ish arms. 

“Well, look who it is,” said Malfoy in his usual lazy 
drawl, pulling open the compartment door. “Potty and 
the Weasel.” 

Crabbe and Goyle chuckled trollishly. 

“I heard your father finally got his hands on some 
gold this summer, Weasley,” said Malfoy. “Did your 
mother die of shock?” 

Ron stood up so quickly he knocked Crookshanks’s 
basket to the floor. Professor Lupin gave a snort. 

“Who’s that?” said Malfoy, taking an automatic step 
backward as he spotted Lupin. 

“New teacher,” said Harry, who got to his feet, too, in 
case he needed to hold Ron back. “What were you 
saying, Malfoy?” 



Page | 88 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy’s pale eyes narrowed; he wasn’t fool enough to 
pick a fight right under a teacher’s nose. 

“C’mon,” he muttered resentfully to Crabbe and 
Goyle, and they disappeared. 

Harry and Ron sat down again, Ron massaging his 
knuckles. 

“I’m not going to take any crap from Malfoy this year,” 
he said angrily. “I mean it. If he makes one more 
crack about my family, I’m going to get hold of his 
head and — ” 

Ron made a violent gesture in midair. 

“Ron,” hissed Hermione, pointing at Professor Lupin, 
“be careful ...” 

But Professor Lupin was still fast asleep. 

The rain thickened as the train sped yet farther north; 
the windows were now a solid, shimmering gray, 
which gradually darkened until lanterns flickered into 
life all along the corridors and over the luggage racks. 
The train rattled, the rain hammered, the wind 
roared, but still, Professor Lupin slept. 

“We must be nearly there,” said Ron, leaning forward 
to look past Professor Lupin at the now completely 
black window. 

The words had hardly left him when the train started 
to slow down. 

“Great,” said Ron, getting up and walking carefully 
past Professor Lupin to try and see outside. “I’m 
starving. I want to get to the feast. ...” 



Page | 89 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“We can’t be there yet,” said Hermione, checking her 
watch. 

“So why’re we stopping?” 

The train was getting slower and slower. As the noise 
of the pistons fell away, the wind and rain sounded 
louder than ever against the windows. 

Harry, who was nearest the door, got up to look into 
the corridor. All along the carriage, heads were 
sticking curiously out of their compartments. 

The train came to a stop with a jolt, and distant thuds 
and bangs told them that luggage had fallen out of 
the racks. Then, without warning, all the lamps went 
out and they were plunged into total darkness. 

“What’s going on?” said Ron’s voice from behind 
Harry. 

“Ouch!” gasped Hermione. “Ron, that was my foot!” 
Harry felt his way back to his seat. 

“D’you think we’ve broken down?” 

“Dunno ...” 

There was a squeaking sound, and Harry saw the dim 
black outline of Ron, wiping a patch clean on the 
window and peering out. 

“There’s something moving out there,” Ron said. “I 
think people are coming aboard. ...” 

The compartment door suddenly opened and someone 
fell painfully over Harry’s legs. 



Page | 90 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sorry — d’you know what’s going on? — Ouch — 
sorry — ” 

“Hullo, Neville,” said Harry, feeling around in the dark 
and pulling Neville up by his cloak. 

“Harry? Is that you? What’s happening?” 

“No idea — sit down — ” 

There was a loud hissing and a yelp of pain; Neville 
had tried to sit on Crookshanks. 

“I’m going to go and ask the driver what’s going on,” 
came Hermione’s voice. Harry felt her pass him, heard 
the door slide open again, and then a thud and two 
loud squeals of pain. 

“Who’s that?” 

“Who’s that?” 

“Ginny?” 

“Hermione?” 

“What are you doing?” 

“I was looking for Ron — ” 

“Come in and sit down — ” 

“Not here!” said Harry hurriedly. “I’m here!” 

“Ouch!” said Neville. 

“Quiet!” said a hoarse voice suddenly. 



Page | 91 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Lupin appeared to have woken up at last. 
Harry could hear movements in his corner. None of 
them spoke. 

There was a soft, crackling noise, and a shivering 
light filled the compartment. Professor Lupin 
appeared to be holding a handful of flames. They 
illuminated his tired, gray face, but his eyes looked 
alert and wary. 

“Stay where you are,” he said in the same hoarse 
voice, and he got slowly to his feet with his handful of 
fire held out in front of him. 

But the door slid slowly open before Lupin could 
reach it. 

Standing in the doorway, illuminated by the shivering 
flames in Lupin’s hand, was a cloaked figure that 
towered to the ceiling. Its face was completely hidden 
beneath its hood. Harry’s eyes darted downward, and 
what he saw made his stomach contract. There was a 
hand protruding from the cloak and it was glistening, 
grayish, slimy-looking, and scabbed, like something 
dead that had decayed in water. . . . 

But it was visible only for a split second. As though 
the creature beneath the cloak sensed Harry’s gaze, 
the hand was suddenly withdrawn into the folds of its 
black cloak. 

