
“Where is Hermione?” he said again. 

A group of Slytherins came up the steps from their 
dungeon common room. Malfoy was in front; he was 
wearing dress robes of black velvet with a high collar, 
which in Harry’s opinion made him look like a vicar. 
Pansy Parkinson in very frilly robes of pale pink was 
clutching Malfoy’s arm. Crabbe and Goyle were both 
Page | 455 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




wearing green; they resembled moss-colored boulders, 
and neither of them, Harry was pleased to see, had 
managed to find a partner. 

The oak front doors opened, and everyone turned to 
look as the Durmstrang students entered with 
Professor Karkaroff. Krum was at the front of the 
party, accompanied by a pretty girl in blue robes 
Harry didn’t know. Over their heads he saw that an 
area of lawn right in front of the castle had been 
transformed into a sort of grotto full of fairy lights — 
meaning hundreds of actual living fairies were sitting 
in the rosebushes that had been conjured there, and 
fluttering over the statues of what seemed to be 
Father Christmas and his reindeer. 

Then Professor McGonagall’s voice called, 

“Champions over here, please!” 

Parvati readjusted her bangles, beaming; she and 
Harry said “See you in a minute” to Ron and Padma 
and walked forward, the chattering crowd parting to 
let them through. Professor McGonagall, who was 
wearing dress robes of red tartan and had arranged a 
rather ugly wreath of thistles around the brim of her 
hat, told them to wait on one side of the doors while 
everyone else went inside; they were to enter the 
Great Hall in procession when the rest of the students 
had sat down. Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies 
stationed themselves nearest the doors; Davies looked 
so stunned by his good fortune in having Fleur for a 
partner that he could hardly take his eyes off her. 
Cedric and Cho were close to Harry too; he looked 
away from them so he wouldn’t have to talk to them. 
His eyes fell instead on the girl next to Krum. His jaw 
dropped. 

It was Hermione. 



Page | 456 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But she didn’t look like Hermione at all. She had done 
something with her hair; it was no longer bushy but 
sleek and shiny, and twisted up into an elegant knot 
at the back of her head. She was wearing robes made 
of a floaty, periwinkle-blue material, and she was 
holding herself differently, somehow — or maybe it 
was merely the absence of the twenty or so books she 
usually had slung over her back. She was also 
smiling — rather nervously, it was true — but the 
reduction in the size of her front teeth was more 
noticeable than ever; Harry couldn’t understand how 
he hadn’t spotted it before. 

“Hi, Harry!” she said. “Hi, Parvati!” 

Parvati was gazing at Hermione in unflattering 
disbelief. She wasn’t the only one either; when the 
doors to the Great Hall opened, Krum’s fan club from 
the library stalked past, throwing Hermione looks of 
deepest loathing. Pansy Parkinson gaped at her as 
she walked by with Malfoy, and even he didn’t seem 
to be able to find an insult to throw at her. Ron, 
however, walked right past Hermione without looking 
at her. 

Once everyone else was settled in the Hall, Professor 
McGonagall told the champions and their partners to 
get in line in pairs and to follow her. They did so, and 
everyone in the Great Hall applauded as they entered 
and started walking up toward a large round table at 
the top of the Hall, where the judges were sitting. 

The walls of the Hall had all been covered in sparkling 
silver frost, with hundreds of garlands of mistletoe 
and ivy crossing the starry black ceiling. The House 
tables had vanished; instead, there were about a 
hundred smaller, lantern-lit ones, each seating about 
a dozen people. 



Page | 457 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry concentrated on not tripping over his feet. 
Parvati seemed to be enjoying herself; she was 
beaming around at everybody, steering Harry so 
forcefully that he felt as though he were a show dog 
she was putting through its paces. He caught sight of 
Ron and Padma as he neared the top table. Ron was 
watching Hermione pass with narrowed eyes. Padma 
was looking sulky. 

Dumbledore smiled happily as the champions 
approached the top table, but Karkaroff wore an 
expression remarkably like Ron’s as he watched 
Krum and Hermione draw nearer. Ludo Bagman, 
tonight in robes of bright purple with large yellow 
stars, was clapping as enthusiastically as any of the 
students; and Madame Maxime, who had changed 
her usual uniform of black satin for a flowing gown of 
lavender silk, was applauding them politely. But Mr. 
Crouch, Harry suddenly realized, was not there. The 
fifth seat at the table was occupied by Percy Weasley. 

When the champions and their partners reached the 
table, Percy drew out the empty chair beside him, 
staring pointedly at Harry. Harry took the hint and 
sat down next to Percy, who was wearing brand-new, 
navy-blue dress robes and an expression of such 
smugness that Harry thought it ought to be fined. 

“I’ve been promoted,” Percy said before Harry could 
even ask, and from his tone, he might have been 
announcing his election as supreme ruler of the 
universe. “I’m now Mr. Crouch’s personal assistant, 
and I’m here representing him.” 

“Why didn’t he come?” Harry asked. He wasn’t looking 
forward to being lectured on cauldron bottoms all 
through dinner. 



Page | 458 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm afraid to say Mr. Crouch isn’t well, not well at all. 
Hasn’t been right since the World Cup. Hardly 
surprising — overwork. He’s not as young as he was 
— though still quite brilliant, of course, the mind 
remains as great as it ever was. But the World Cup 
was a fiasco for the whole Ministry, and then, Mr. 
Crouch suffered a huge personal shock with the 
misbehavior of that house-elf of his, Blinky, or 
whatever she was called. Naturally, he dismissed her 
immediately afterward, but — well, as I say, he’s 
getting on, he needs looking after, and I think he’s 
found a definite drop in his home comforts since she 
left. And then we had the tournament to arrange, and 
the aftermath of the Cup to deal with — that revolting 
Skeeter woman buzzing around — no, poor man, he’s 
having a well earned, quiet Christmas. I’m just glad 
he knew he had someone he could rely upon to take 
his place.” 

Harry wanted very much to ask whether Mr. Crouch 
had stopped calling Percy “Weatherby” yet, but 
resisted the temptation. 

There was no food as yet on the glittering golden 
plates, but small menus were lying in front of each of 
them. Harry picked his up uncertainly and looked 
around — there were no waiters. Dumbledore, 
however, looked carefully down at his own menu, 
then said very clearly to his plate, “Pork chops!” 

And pork chops appeared. Getting the idea, the rest of 
the table placed their orders with their plates too. 
Harry glanced up at Hermione to see how she felt 
about this new and more complicated method of 
dining — surely it meant plenty of extra work for the 
house-elves? — but for once, Hermione didn’t seem to 
be thinking about S.P.E.W. She was deep in talk with 
Viktor Krum and hardly seemed to notice what she 
was eating. 

Page | 459 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




It now occurred to Harry that he had never actually 
heard Krum speak before, but he was certainly 
talking now, and very enthusiastically at that. 

“Veil, ve have a castle also, not as big as this, nor as 
comfortable, I am thinking,” he was telling Hermione. 
“Ve have just four floors, and the fires are lit only for 
magical purposes. But ve have grounds larger even 
than these — though in vinter, ve have very little 
daylight, so ve are not enjoying them. But in summer 
ve are flying every day, over the lakes and the 
mountains — ” 

“Now, now, Viktor!” said Karkaroff with a laugh that 
didn’t reach his cold eyes, “don’t go giving away 
anything else, now, or your charming friend will know 
exactly where to find us!” 

Dumbledore smiled, his eyes twinkling. “Igor, all this 
secrecy ... one would almost think you didn’t want 
visitors.” 

“Well, Dumbledore,” said Karkaroff, displaying his 
yellowing teeth to their fullest extent, “we are all 
protective of our private domains, are we not? Do we 
not jealously guard the halls of learning that have 
been entrusted to us? Are we not right to be proud 
that we alone know our school’s secrets, and right to 
protect them?” 

“Oh I would never dream of assuming I know all 
Hogwarts’ secrets, Igor,” said Dumbledore amicably. 
“Only this morning, for instance, I took a wrong 
turning on the way to the bathroom and found myself 
in a beautifully proportioned room I have never seen 
before, containing a really rather magnificent 
collection of chamber pots. When I went back to 
investigate more closely, I discovered that the room 
had vanished. But I must keep an eye out for it. 

Page | 460 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Possibly it is only accessible at five-thirty in the 
morning. Or it may only appear at the quarter moon 
— or when the seeker has an exceptionally full 
bladder.” 

Harry snorted into his plate of goulash. Percy 
frowned, but Harry could have sworn Dumbledore 
had given him a very small wink. 

Meanwhile Fleur Delacour was criticizing the 
Hogwarts decorations to Roger Davies. 

“Zis is nothing,” she said dismissively, looking around 
at the sparkling walls of the Great Hall. “At ze Palace 
of Beauxbatons, we ’ave ice sculptures all around ze 
dining chamber at Chreestmas. Zey do not melt, of 
course . . . zey are like ’uge statues of diamond, 
glittering around ze place. And ze food is seemply 
superb. And we ’ave choirs of wood nymphs, ’oo 
serenade us as we eat. We ’ave none of zis ugly armor 
in ze ’alls, and eef a poltergeist ever entaired into 
Beauxbatons, ’e would be expelled like zat.” She 
slapped her hand onto the table impatiently. 

Roger Davies was watching her talk with a very dazed 
look on his face, and he kept missing his mouth with 
his fork. Harry had the impression that Davies was 
too busy staring at Fleur to take in a word she was 
saying. 

“Absolutely right,” he said quickly, slapping his own 
hand down on the table in imitation of Fleur. “Like 
that. Yeah.” 

Harry looked around the Hall. Hagrid was sitting at 
one of the other staff tables; he was back in his 
horrible hairy brown suit and gazing up at the top 
table. Harry saw him give a small wave, and looking 



Page | 461 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




around, saw Madame Maxime return it, her opals 
glittering in the candlelight. 

Hermione was now teaching Krum to say her name 
properly; he kept calling her “Hermy-own.” 

“Her-my-oh-nee,” she said slowly and clearly. 

“Herm-own-ninny.” 

“Close enough,” she said, catching Harry’s eye and 
grinning. 

When all the food had been consumed, Dumbledore 
stood up and asked the students to do the same. 

Then, with a wave of his wand, all the tables zoomed 
back along the walls leaving the floor clear, and then 
he conjured a raised platform into existence along the 
right wall. A set of drums, several guitars, a lute, a 
cello, and some bagpipes were set upon it. 

The Weird Sisters now trooped up onto the stage to 
wildly enthusiastic applause; they were all extremely 
hairy and dressed in black robes that had been 
artfully ripped and torn. They picked up their 
instruments, and Harry, who had been so interested 
in watching them that he had almost forgotten what 
was coming, suddenly realized that the lanterns on all 
the other tables had gone out, and that the other 
champions and their partners were standing up. 

“Come on!” Parvati hissed. “We’re supposed to dance!” 

Harry tripped over his dress robes as he stood up. 

The Weird Sisters struck up a slow, mournful tune; 
Harry walked onto the brightly lit dance floor, 
carefully avoiding catching anyone’s eye (he could see 
Seamus and Dean waving at him and sniggering), and 
next moment, Parvati had seized his hands, placed 
Page | 462 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




one around her waist, and was holding the other 
tightly in hers. 

It wasn’t as bad as it could have been, Harry thought, 
revolving slowly on the spot (Parvati was steering) . He 
kept his eyes fixed over the heads of the watching 
people, and very soon many of them too had come 
onto the dance floor, so that the champions were no 
longer the center of attention. Neville and Ginny were 
dancing nearby — he could see Ginny wincing 
frequently as Neville trod on her feet — and 
Dumbledore was waltzing with Madame Maxime. He 
was so dwarfed by her that the top of his pointed hat 
barely tickled her chin; however, she moved very 
gracefully for a woman so large. Mad-Eye Moody was 
doing an extremely ungainly two-step with Professor 
Sinistra, who was nervously avoiding his wooden leg. 

“Nice socks, Potter,” Moody growled as he passed, his 
magical eye staring through Harry’s robes. 

“Oh — yeah, Dobby the house-elf knitted them for 
me,” said Harry, grinning. 

“He is so creepy\” Parvati whispered as Moody 
clunked away. “I don’t think that eye should be 
allowed]” 

Harry heard the final, quavering note from the 
bagpipe with relief. The Weird Sisters stopped playing, 
applause filled the hall once more, and Harry let go of 
Parvati at once. 

“Let’s sit down, shall we?” 

“Oh — but — this is a really good one!” Parvati said 
as the Weird Sisters struck up a new song, which was 
much faster. 



Page | 463 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No, I don’t like it,” Harry lied, and he led her away 
from the dance floor, past Fred and Angelina, who 
were dancing so exhuberantly that people around 
them were backing away in fear of injury, and over to 
the table where Ron and Padma were sitting. 

“How’s it going?” Harry asked Ron, sitting down and 
opening a bottle of butterbeer. 

Ron didn’t answer. He was glaring at Hermione and 
Krum, who were dancing nearby. Padma was sitting 
with her arms and legs crossed, one foot jiggling in 
time to the music. Every now and then she threw a 
disgruntled look at Ron, who was completely ignoring 
her. Parvati sat down on Harry’s other side, crossed 
her arms and legs too, and within minutes was asked 
to dance by a boy from Beauxbatons. 

“You don’t mind, do you, Harry?” Parvati said. 

“What?” said Harry, who was now watching Cho and 
Cedric. 

“Oh never mind,” snapped Parvati, and she went off 
with the boy from Beauxbatons. When the song 
ended, she did not return. 

Hermione came over and sat down in Parvati’s empty 
chair. She was a bit pink in the face from dancing. 

“Hi,” said Harry. Ron didn’t say anything. 

“It’s hot, isn’t it?” said Hermione, fanning herself with 
her hand. “Viktor’s just gone to get some drinks.” 

Ron gave her a withering look. “Viktor?” he said. 
“Hasn’t he asked you to call him Vicky yet?” 



Page | 464 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione looked at him in surprise. “What’s up with 
you?” she said. 

“If you don’t know,” said Ron scathingly, “I’m not 
going to tell you.” 

Hermione stared at him, then at Harry, who 
shrugged. 

“Ron, what — ?” 

“He’s from Durmstrang!” spat Ron. “He’s competing 
against Harry! Against Hogwarts! You — you’re — ” 
Ron was obviously casting around for words strong 
enough to describe Hermione ’s crime, “ fraternizing 
with the enemy, that’s what you’re doing!” 

Hermione’s mouth fell open. 

“Don’t be so stupid!” she said after a moment. “The 
enemy\ Honestly — who was the one who was all 
excited when they saw him arrive? Who was the one 
who wanted his autograph? Who’s got a model of him 
up in their dormitory?” 

Ron chose to ignore this. “I s’pose he asked you to 
come with him while you were both in the library?” 

“Yes, he did,” said Hermione, the pink patches on her 
cheeks glowing more brightly. “So what?” 

“What happened — trying to get him to join spew, 
were you?” 

“No, I wasn’t! If you really want to know, he — he said 
he’d been coming up to the library every day to try 
and talk to me, but he hadn’t been able to pluck up 
the courage!” 



Page | 465 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione said this very quickly, and blushed so 
deeply that she was the same color as Parvati’s robes. 

“Yeah, well — that’s his story,” said Ron nastily. 

“And what’s that supposed to mean?” 

“Obvious, isn’t it? He’s Karkaroff’s student, isn’t he? 
He knows who you hang around with. ... He’s just 
trying to get closer to Harry — get inside information 
on him — or get near enough to jinx him — ” 

Hermione looked as though Ron had slapped her. 
When she spoke, her voice quivered. 

“For your information, he hasn’t asked me one single 
thing about Harry, not one — ” 

Ron changed tack at the speed of light. 

“Then he’s hoping you’ll help him find out what his 
egg means! I suppose you’ve been putting your heads 
together during those cozy little library sessions — ” 

“I’d never help him work out that egg!” said Hermione, 
looking outraged. “Never. How could you say 
something like that — I want Harry to win the 
tournament, Harry knows that, don’t you, Harry?” 

“You’ve got a funny way of showing it,” sneered Ron. 

“This whole tournament’s supposed to be about 
getting to know foreign wizards and making friends 
with them!” said Hermione hotly. 

“No it isn’t!” shouted Ron. “It’s about winning!” 

People were starting to stare at them. 



Page | 466 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron,” said Harry quietly, “I haven’t got a problem 
with Hermione coming with Krum — ” 

But Ron ignored Harry too. 

“Why don’t you go and find Vicky, he’ll be wondering 
where you are,” said Ron. 

“Don’t call him Vickyl” 

Hermione jumped to her feet and stormed off across 
the dance floor, disappearing into the crowd. Ron 
watched her go with a mixture of anger and 
satisfaction on his face. 

“Are you going to ask me to dance at all?” Padma 
asked him. 

“No,” said Ron, still glaring after Hermione. 

“Fine,” snapped Padma, and she got up and went to 
join Parvati and the Beauxbatons boy, who conjured 
up one of his friends to join them so fast that Harry 
could have sworn he had zoomed him there by a 
Summoning Charm. 

“Vare is Herm-own-ninny?” said a voice. 

Krum had just arrived at their table clutching two 
butterbeers. 

“No idea,” said Ron mulishly, looking up at him. “Lost 
her, have you?” 

Krum was looking surly again. 

“Veil, if you see her, tell her I haff drinks,” he said, 
and he slouched off. 



Page | 467 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Made friends with Viktor Krum, have you, Ron?” 



Percy had bustled over, rubbing his hands together 
and looking extremely pompous. “Excellent! That’s 
the whole point, you know — international magical 
cooperation!” 

To Harry’s displeasure, Percy now took Padma’s 
vacated seat. The top table was now empty; Professor 
Dumbledore was dancing with Professor Sprout, Ludo 
Bagman with Professor McGonagall; Madame Maxime 
and Hagrid were cutting a wide path around the 
dance floor as they waltzed through the students, and 
Karkaroff was nowhere to be seen. When the next 
song ended, everybody applauded once more, and 
Harry saw Ludo Bagman kiss Professor McGonagall’s 
hand and make his way back through the crowds, at 
which point Fred and George accosted him. 

“What do they think they’re doing, annoying senior 
Ministry members?” Percy hissed, watching Fred and 
George suspiciously. “No respect ...” 

Ludo Bagman shook off Fred and George fairly 
quickly, however, and, spotting Harry, waved and 
came over to their table. 

“I hope my brothers weren’t bothering you, Mr. 
Bagman?” said Percy at once. 

“What? Oh not at all, not at all!” said Bagman. “No, 
they were just telling me a bit more about those fake 
wands of theirs. Wondering if I could advise them on 
the marketing. I’ve promised to put them in touch 
with a couple of contacts of mine at Zonko’s Joke 
Shop. ...” 

Percy didn’t look happy about this at all, and Harry 
was prepared to bet he would be rushing to tell Mrs. 

Page | 468 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Weasley about this the moment he got home. 
Apparently Fred and George’s plans had grown even 
more ambitious lately, if they were hoping to sell to 
the public. Bagman opened his mouth to ask Harry 
something, but Percy diverted him. 

“How do you feel the tournament’s going, Mr. 

Bagman? Our department’s quite satisfied — the 
hitch with the Goblet of Fire” — he glanced at Harry 
— “was a little unfortunate, of course, but it seems to 
have gone very smoothly since, don’t you think?” 

“Oh yes,” Bagman said cheerfully, “it’s all been 
enormous fun. How’s old Barty doing? Shame he 
couldn’t come.” 

“Oh I’m sure Mr. Crouch will be up and about in no 
time,” said Percy importantly, “but in the meantime, 
I’m more than willing to take up the slack. Of course, 
it’s not all attending balls” — he laughed airily — “oh 
no, I’ve had to deal with all sorts of things that have 
cropped up in his absence — you heard Ali Bashir 
was caught smuggling a consignment of flying carpets 
into the country? And then we’ve been trying to 
persuade the Transylvanians to sign the International 
Ban on Dueling. I’ve got a meeting with their Head of 
Magical Cooperation in the new year — ” 

“Let’s go for a walk,” Ron muttered to Harry, “get 
away from Percy. ...” 

Pretending they wanted more drinks, Harry and Ron 
left the table, edged around the dance floor, and 
slipped out into the entrance hall. The front doors 
stood open, and the fluttering fairy lights in the rose 
garden winked and twinkled as they went down the 
front steps, where they found themselves surrounded 
by bushes; winding, ornamental paths; and large 
stone statues. Harry could hear splashing water, 

Page | 469 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




which sounded like a fountain. Here and there, people 
were sitting on carved benches. He and Ron set off 
along one of the winding paths through the 
rosebushes, but they had gone only a short way when 
they heard an unpleasantly familiar voice. 

"... don’t see what there is to fuss about, Igor.” 

“Severus, you cannot pretend this isn’t happening!” 
Karkaroff’s voice sounded anxious and hushed, as 
though keen not to be overheard. “It’s been getting 
clearer and clearer for months. I am becoming 
seriously concerned, I can’t deny it — ” 

“Then flee,” said Snape’s voice curtly. “Flee — I will 
make your excuses. I, however, am remaining at 
Hogwarts.” 

Snape and Karkaroff came around the corner. Snape 
had his wand out and was blasting rosebushes apart, 
his expression most ill-natured. Squeals issued from 
many of the bushes, and dark shapes emerged from 
them. 

“Ten points from Ravenclaw, Fawcett!” Snape snarled 
as a girl ran past him. “And ten points from Hufflepuff 
too, Stebbins!” as a boy went rushing after her. “And 
what are you two doing?” he added, catching sight of 
Harry and Ron on the path ahead. Karkaroff, Harry 
saw, looked slightly discomposed to see them 
standing there. His hand went nervously to his 
goatee, and he began winding it around his finger. 

“We’re walking,” Ron told Snape shortly. “Not against 
the law, is it?” 

“Keep walking, then!” Snape snarled, and he brushed 
past them, his long black cloak billowing out behind 



Page | 470 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




him. Karkaroff hurried away after Snape. Harry and 
Ron continued down the path. 

“What’s got Karkaroff all worried?” Ron muttered. 

“And since when have he and Snape been on first- 
name terms?” said Harry slowly. 

They had reached a large stone reindeer now, over 
which they could see the sparkling jets of a tall 
fountain. The shadowy outlines of two enormous 
people were visible on a stone bench, watching the 
water in the moonlight. And then Harry heard Hagrid 
speak. 

“Momen’ I saw yeh, I knew,” he was saying, in an 
oddly husky voice. 

Harry and Ron froze. This didn’t sound like the sort of 
scene they ought to walk in on, somehow. . . . Harry 
looked around, back up the path, and saw Fleur 
Delacour and Roger Davies standing half-concealed in 
a rosebush nearby. He tapped Ron on the shoulder 
and jerked his head toward them, meaning that they 
could easily sneak off that way without being noticed 
(Fleur and Davies looked very busy to Harry), but 
Ron, eyes widening in horror at the sight of Fleur, 
shook his head vigorously, and pulled Harry deeper 
into the shadows behind the reindeer. 

“What did you know, ’Agrid?” said Madame Maxime, a 
purr in her low voice. 

Harry definitely didn’t want to listen to this; he knew 
Hagrid would hate to be overheard in a situation like 
this (he certainly would have) — if it had been 
possible he would have put his fingers in his ears and 
hummed loudly, but that wasn’t really an option. 
Instead he tried to interest himself in a beetle 
Page | 471 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




crawling along the stone reindeer’s back, but the 
beetle just wasn’t interesting enough to block out 
Hagrid’s next words. 

“I jus’ knew ... knew you were like me. ... Was it yer 
mother or yer father?” 

“I — I don’t know what you mean, ’Agrid. ...” 

“It was my mother,” said Hagrid quietly. “She was one 
o’ the las’ ones in Britain. ’Course, I can’ remember 
her too well ... she left, see. When I was abou’ three. 
She wasn’ really the maternal sort. Well ... it’s not in 
their natures, is it? Dunno what happened to her ... 
might be dead fer all I know. ...” 

Madame Maxime didn’t say anything. And Harry, in 
spite of himself, took his eyes off the beetle and 
looked over the top of the reindeer’s antlers, listening. 

. . . He had never heard Hagrid talk about his 
childhood before. 

“Me dad was broken-hearted when she wen’. Tiny 
little bloke, my dad was. By the time I was six I could 
lift him up an’ put him on top o’ the dresser if he 
annoyed me. Used ter make him laugh. ...” Hagrid’s 
deep voice broke. Madame Maxime was listening, 
motionless, apparently staring at the silvery fountain. 
“Dad raised me ... but he died, o’ course, jus’ after I 
started school. Sorta had ter make me own way after 
that. Dumbledore was a real help, mind. Very kind ter 
me, he was. ...” 

Hagrid pulled out a large spotted silk handkerchief 
and blew his nose heavily. 

“So ... anyway ... enough abou’ me. What about you? 
Which side you got it on?” 



Page | 472 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But Madame Maxime had suddenly got to her feet. 

“It is chilly,” she said — but whatever the weather 
was doing, it was nowhere near as cold as her voice. 

“I think I will go in now.” 

“Eh?” said Hagrid blankly. “No, don’ go! I’ve — I’ve 
never met another one before!” 

“Anuzzer what, precisely?” said Madame Maxime, her 
tone icy. 

Harry could have told Hagrid it was best not to 
answer; he stood there in the shadows gritting his 
teeth, hoping against hope he wouldn’t — but it was 
no good. 

“Another half-giant, o’ course!” said Hagrid. 

“ ’Ow dare you!” shrieked Madame Maxime. Her voice 
exploded through the peaceful night air like a 
foghorn; behind him, Harry heard Fleur and Roger fall 
out of their rosebush. “I ’ave nevair been more 
insulted in my life! ’Alf-giant? Moi? I ’ave — I ’ave big 
bones!” 

She stormed away; great multicolored swarms of 
fairies rose into the air as she passed, angrily pushing 
aside bushes. Hagrid was still sitting on the bench, 
staring after her. It was much too dark to make out 
his expression. Then, after about a minute, he stood 
up and strode away, not back to the castle, but off 
out into the dark grounds in the direction of his 
cabin. 

“C’mon,” Harry said, very quietly to Ron. “Let’s go. ...” 
But Ron didn’t move. 



Page | 473 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s up?” said Harry, looking at him. 

Ron looked around at Harry, his expression very 
serious indeed. 

“Did you know?” he whispered. “About Hagrid being 
half-giant?” 

“No,” Harry said, shrugging. “So what?” 

He knew immediately, from the look Ron was giving 
him, that he was once again revealing his ignorance 
of the wizarding world. Brought up by the Dursleys, 
there were many things that wizards took for granted 
that were revelations to Harry, but these surprises 
had become fewer with each successive year. Now, 
however, he could tell that most wizards would not 
have said “So what?” upon finding out that one of 
their friends had a giantess for a mother. 

“I’ll explain inside,” said Ron quietly, “c’mon. ...” 

Fleur and Roger Davies had disappeared, probably 
into a more private clump of bushes. Harry and Ron 
returned to the Great Hall. Parvati and Padma were 
now sitting at a distant table with a whole crowd of 
Beauxbatons boys, and Hermione was once more 
dancing with Krum. Harry and Ron sat down at a 
table far removed from the dance floor. 

“So?” Harry prompted Ron. “What’s the problem with 
giants?” 

“Well, they’re ... they’re ...” Ron struggled for words. 
"... not very nice,” he finished lamely. 

“Who cares?” Harry said. “There’s nothing wrong with 
Hagrid!” 



Page | 474 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I know there isn’t, but ... blimey, no wonder he keeps 
it quiet,” Ron said, shaking his head. “I always 
thought he’d got in the way of a bad Engorgement 
Charm when he was a kid or something. Didn’t like to 
mention it. ...” 

“But what’s it matter if his mother was a giantess?” 
said Harry. 

“Well ... no one who knows him will care, ’cos they’ll 
know he’s not dangerous,” said Ron slowly. “But ... 
Harry, they’re just vicious, giants. It’s like Hagrid 
said, it’s in their natures, they’re like trolls ... they 
just like killing, everyone knows that. There aren’t 
any left in Britain now, though.” 

“What happened to them?” 

“Well, they were dying out anyway, and then loads got 
themselves killed by Aurors. There ’re supposed to be 
giants abroad, though. ... They hide out in mountains 
mostly. ...” 

“I don’t know who Maxime thinks she’s kidding,” 

Harry said, watching Madame Maxime sitting alone at 
the judges’ table, looking very somber. “If Hagrid ’s 
half-giant, she definitely is. Big bones ... the only 
thing that’s got bigger bones than her is a dinosaur.” 

Harry and Ron spent the rest of the ball discussing 
giants in their corner, neither of them having any 
inclination to dance. Harry tried not to watch Cho 
and Cedric too much; it gave him a strong desire to 
kick something. 

When the Weird Sisters finished playing at midnight, 
everyone gave them a last, loud round of applause 
and started to wend their way into the entrance hall. 
Many people were expressing the wish that the ball 

Page | 475 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




could have gone on longer, but Harry was perfectly 
happy to be going to bed; as far as he was concerned, 
the evening hadn’t been much fun. 

Out in the entrance hall, Harry and Ron saw 
Hermione saying good night to Krum before he went 
back to the Durmstrang ship. She gave Ron a very 
cold look and swept past him up the marble staircase 
without speaking. Harry and Ron followed her, but 
halfway up the staircase Harry heard someone calling 
him. 

“Hey — Harry!” 

It was Cedric Diggory. Harry could see Cho waiting for 
him in the entrance hall below. 

