prowess — their daring — their powers of deduction 
— and, of course, their ability to cope with danger.” 

At this last word, the Hall was filled with a silence so 
absolute that nobody seemed to be breathing. 

“As you know, three champions compete in the 
tournament,” Dumbledore went on calmly, “one from 
each of the participating schools. They will be marked 
on how well they perform each of the Tournament 
tasks and the champion with the highest total after 
task three will win the Triwizard Cup. The champions 
will be chosen by an impartial selector: the Goblet of 
Fire.” 

Dumbledore now took out his wand and tapped three 
times upon the top of the casket. The lid creaked 
slowly open. Dumbledore reached inside it and pulled 
out a large, roughly hewn wooden cup. It would have 
been entirely unremarkable had it not been full to the 
brim with dancing blue-white flames. 

Dumbledore closed the casket and placed the goblet 
carefully on top of it, where it would be clearly visible 
to everyone in the Hall. 

“Anybody wishing to submit themselves as champion 
must write their name and school clearly upon a slip 
of parchment and drop it into the goblet,” said 
Dumbledore. “Aspiring champions have twenty-four 
hours in which to put their names forward. Tomorrow 
Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




night, Halloween, the goblet will return the names of 
the three it has judged most worthy to represent their 
schools. The goblet will be placed in the entrance hall 
tonight, where it will be freely accessible to all those 
wishing to compete. 

“To ensure that no underage student yields to 
temptation,” said Dumbledore, “I will be drawing an 
Age Line around the Goblet of Fire once it has been 
placed in the entrance hall. Nobody under the age of 
seventeen will be able to cross this line. 

“Finally, I wish to impress upon any of you wishing to 
compete that this tournament is not to be entered 
into lightly. Once a champion has been selected by 
the Goblet of Fire, he or she is obliged to see the 
tournament through to the end. The placing of your 
name in the goblet constitutes a binding, magical 
contract. There can be no change of heart once you 
have become a champion. Please be very sure, 
therefore, that you are wholeheartedly prepared to 
play before you drop your name into the goblet. Now, 

I think it is time for bed. Good night to you all.” 

“An Age Line!” Fred Weasley said, his eyes glinting, as 
they all made their way across the Hall to the doors 
into the entrance hall. “Well, that should be fooled by 
an Aging Potion, shouldn’t it? And once your name’s 
in that goblet, you’re laughing — it can’t tell whether 
you’re seventeen or not!” 

“But I don’t think anyone under seventeen will stand 
a chance,” said Hermione, “we just haven’t learned 
enough ...” 

“Speak for yourself,” said George shortly. “You’ll try 
and get in, won’t you, Harry?” 



Page | 284 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry thought briefly of Dumbledore ’s insistence that 
nobody under seventeen should submit their name, 
but then the wonderful picture of himself winning the 
Triwizard Tournament filled his mind again. ... He 
wondered how angry Dumbledore would be if 
someone younger than seventeen did find a way to get 
over the Age Line. ... 

“Where is he?” said Ron, who wasn’t listening to a 
word of this conversation, but looking through the 
crowd to see what had become of Krum. “Dumbledore 
didn’t say where the Durmstrang people are sleeping, 
did he?” 

But this query was answered almost instantly; they 
were level with the Slytherin table now, and Karkaroff 
had just bustled up to his students. 

“Back to the ship, then,” he was saying. “Viktor, how 
are you feeling? Did you eat enough? Should I send 
for some mulled wine from the kitchens?” 

Harry saw Krum shake his head as he pulled his furs 
back on. 

“Professor, I vood like some vine,” said one of the 
other Durmstrang boys hopefully. 

“I wasn’t offering it to you, Poliakoff,” snapped 
Karkaroff, his warmly paternal air vanishing in an 
instant. “I notice you have dribbled food all down the 
front of your robes again, disgusting boy — ” 

Karkaroff turned and led his students toward the 
doors, reaching them at exactly the same moment as 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. Harry stopped to let him 
walk through first. 



Page | 285 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Thank you,” said Karkaroff carelessly, glancing at 
him. 

And then Karkaroff froze. He turned his head back to 
Harry and stared at him as though he couldn’t believe 
his eyes. Behind their headmaster, the students from 
Durmstrang came to a halt too. Karkaroff s eyes 
moved slowly up Harry’s face and fixed upon his scar. 
The Durmstrang students were staring curiously at 
Harry too. Out of the corner of his eye, Harry saw 
comprehension dawn on a few of their faces. The boy 
with food all down his front nudged the girl next to 
him and pointed openly at Harry’s forehead. 

“Yeah, that’s Harry Potter,” said a growling voice from 
behind them. 

Professor Karkaroff spun around. Mad-Eye Moody 
was standing there, leaning heavily on his staff, his 
magical eye glaring unblinkingly at the Durmstrang 
headmaster. 

The color drained from Karkaroff’s face as Harry 
watched. A terrible look of mingled fury and fear came 
over him. 

“You!” he said, staring at Moody as though unsure he 
was really seeing him. 

“Me,” said Moody grimly. “And unless you’ve got 
anything to say to Potter, Karkaroff, you might want 
to move. You’re blocking the doorway.” 

It was true; half the students in the Hall were now 
waiting behind them, looking over one another’s 
shoulders to see what was causing the holdup. 

Without another word, Professor Karkaroff swept his 
students away with him. Moody watched him until he 

Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




was out of sight, his magical eye fixed upon his back, 
a look of intense dislike upon his mutilated face. 



As the next day was Saturday, most students would 
normally have breakfasted late. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione, however, were not alone in rising much 
earlier than they usually did on weekends. When they 
went down into the entrance hall, they saw about 
twenty people milling around it, some of them eating 
toast, all examining the Goblet of Fire. It had been 
placed in the center of the hall on the stool that 
normally bore the Sorting Hat. A thin golden line had 
been traced on the floor, forming a circle ten feet 
around it in every direction. 

“Anyone put their name in yet?” Ron asked a third- 
year girl eagerly. 

“All the Durmstrang lot,” she replied. “But I haven’t 
seen anyone from Hogwarts yet.” 

“Bet some of them put it in last night after we’d all 
gone to bed,” said Harry. “I would’ve if it had been me 
... wouldn’t have wanted everyone watching. What if 
the goblet just gobbed you right back out again?” 

Someone laughed behind Harry. Turning, he saw 
Fred, George, and Lee Jordan hurrying down the 
staircase, all three of them looking extremely excited. 

“Done it,” Fred said in a triumphant whisper to Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione. “Just taken it.” 

“What?” said Ron. 

“The Aging Potion, dung brains,” said Fred. 



Page | 287 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“One drop each,” said George, rubbing his hands 
together with glee. “We only need to be a few months 
older.” 



“We’re going to split the thousand Galleons between 
the three of us if one of us wins,” said Lee, grinning 
broadly. 

“I’m not sure this is going to work, you know,” said 
Hermione warningly “I’m sure Dumbledore will have 
thought of this.” 

Fred, George, and Lee ignored her. 

“Ready?” Fred said to the other two, quivering with 
excitement. “C’mon, then — I’ll go first — ” 

Harry watched, fascinated, as Fred pulled a slip of 
parchment out of his pocket bearing the words Fred 
Weasley — Hog warts. Fred walked right up to the 
edge of the line and stood there, rocking on his toes 
like a diver preparing for a fifty-foot drop. Then, with 
the eyes of every person in the entrance hall upon 
him, he took a great breath and stepped over the line. 

For a split second Harry thought it had worked — 
George certainly thought so, for he let out a yell of 
triumph and leapt after Fred — but next moment, 
there was a loud sizzling sound, and both twins were 
hurled out of the golden circle as though they had 
been thrown by an invisible shot-putter. They landed 
painfully, ten feet away on the cold stone floor, and to 
add insult to injury, there was a loud popping noise, 
and both of them sprouted identical long white 
beards. 

The entrance hall rang with laughter. Even Fred and 
George joined in, once they had gotten to their feet 
and taken a good look at each other’s beards. 

Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I did warn you,” said a deep, amused voice, and 
everyone turned to see Professor Dumbledore coming 
out of the Great Hall. He surveyed Fred and George, 
his eyes twinkling. “I suggest you both go up to 
Madam Pomfrey. She is already tending to Miss 
Fawcett, of Ravenclaw, and Mr. Summers, of 
Hufflepuff, both of whom decided to age themselves 
up a little too. Though I must say, neither of their 
beards is anything like as fine as yours.” 

Fred and George set off for the hospital wing, 
accompanied by Lee, who was howling with laughter, 
and Harry, Ron, and Hermione, also chortling, went 
in to breakfast. 

The decorations in the Great Hall had changed this 
morning. As it was Halloween, a cloud of live bats was 
fluttering around the enchanted ceiling, while 
hundreds of carved pumpkins leered from every 
corner. Harry led the way over to Dean and Seamus, 
who were discussing those Hogwarts students of 
seventeen or over who might be entering. 

“There’s a rumor going around that Warrington got up 
early and put his name in,” Dean told Harry. “That 
big bloke from Slytherin who looks like a sloth.” 

Harry, who had played Quidditch against Warrington, 
shook his head in disgust. 

“We can’t have a Slytherin champion!” 

“And all the Hufflepuffs are talking about Diggory,” 
said Seamus contemptuously. “But I wouldn’t have 
thought he’d have wanted to risk his good looks.” 

“Listen!” said Hermione suddenly. 



Page | 289 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




People were cheering out in the entrance hall. They all 
swiveled around in their seats and saw Angelina 
Johnson coming into the Hall, grinning in an 
embarrassed sort of way. A tall black girl who played 
Chaser on the Gryffindor Quidditch team, Angelina 
came over to them, sat down, and said, “Well, I’ve 
done it! Just put my name in!” 

“You’re kidding!” said Ron, looking impressed. 

“Are you seventeen, then?” asked Harry. 

“ ’Course she is, can’t see a beard, can you?” said 
Ron. 

“I had my birthday last week,” said Angelina. 

“Well, I’m glad someone from Gryffindor’s entering,” 
said Hermione. “I really hope you get it, Angelina!” 

“Thanks, Hermione,” said Angelina, smiling at her. 

“Yeah, better you than Pretty-Boy Diggory,” said 
Seamus, causing several Hufflepuffs passing their 
table to scowl heavily at him. 

“What’re we going to do today, then?” Ron asked 
Harry and Hermione when they had finished 
breakfast and were leaving the Great Hall. 

“We haven’t been down to visit Hagrid yet,” said 
Harry. 

“Okay,” said Ron, “just as long as he doesn’t ask us to 
donate a few fingers to the skrewts.” 

A look of great excitement suddenly dawned on 
Hermione ’s face. 



Page | 290 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ve just realized — I haven’t asked Hagrid to join 
S.P.E.W. yet!” she said brightly. “Wait for me, will 
you, while I nip upstairs and get the badges?” 

“What is it with her?” said Ron, exasperated, as 
Hermione ran away up the marble staircase. 

“Hey, Ron,” said Harry suddenly. “It’s your friend ...” 

The students from Beauxbatons were coming through 
the front doors from the grounds, among them, the 
veela-girl. Those gathered around the Goblet of Fire 
stood back to let them pass, watching eagerly. 

Madame Maxime entered the hall behind her students 
and organized them into a line. One by one, the 
Beauxbatons students stepped across the Age Line 
and dropped their slips of parchment into the blue- 
white flames. As each name entered the fire, it turned 
briefly red and emitted sparks. 

“What d’you reckon’ll happen to the ones who aren’t 
chosen?” Ron muttered to Harry as the veela-girl 
dropped her parchment into the Goblet of Fire. 
“Reckon they’ll go back to school, or hang around to 
watch the tournament?” 

“Dunno,” said Harry. “Hang around, I suppose. ... 
Madame Maxime’s staying to judge, isn’t she?” 

When all the Beauxbatons students had submitted 
their names, Madame Maxime led them back out of 
the hall and out onto the grounds again. 

“Where are they sleeping, then?” said Ron, moving 
toward the front doors and staring after them. 



Page | 291 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




A loud rattling noise behind them announced 
Hermione’s reappearance with the box of S.P.E.W. 
badges. 

“Oh good, hurry up,” said Ron, and he jumped down 
the stone steps, keeping his eyes on the back of the 
veela-girl, who was now halfway across the lawn with 
Madame Maxime. 

As they neared Hagrid’s cabin on the edge of the 
Forbidden Forest, the mystery of the Beauxbatons’ 
sleeping quarters was solved. The gigantic powder- 
blue carriage in which they had arrived had been 
parked two hundred yards from Hagrid’s front door, 
and the students were climbing back inside it. The 
elephantine flying horses that had pulled the carriage 
were now grazing in a makeshift paddock alongside it. 

Harry knocked on Hagrid’s door, and Fang’s booming 
barks answered instantly 

“ ’Bout time!” said Hagrid, when he’d flung open the 
door. “Thought you lot’d forgotten where I live!” 

“We’ve been really busy, Hag — ” Hermione started to 
say, but then she stopped dead, looking up at Hagrid, 
apparently lost for words. 

Hagrid was wearing his best (and very horrible) hairy 
brown suit, plus a checked yellow-and-orange tie. 

This wasn’t the worst of it, though; he had evidently 
tried to tame his hair, using large quantities of what 
appeared to be axle grease. It was now slicked down 
into two bunches — perhaps he had tried a ponytail 
like Bill’s, but found he had too much hair. The look 
didn’t really suit Hagrid at all. For a moment, 
Hermione goggled at him, then, obviously deciding 
not to comment, she said, “Erm — where are the 
skrewts?” 

Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Out by the pumpkin patch,” said Hagrid happily. 
“They’re gettin’ massive, mus’ be nearly three foot 
long now. On’y trouble is, they’ve started killin’ each 
other.” 

“Oh no, really?” said Hermione, shooting a repressive 
look at Ron, who, staring at Hagrid’s odd hairstyle, 
had just opened his mouth to say something about it. 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid sadly. “ ’S’ okay, though, I’ve got 
’em in separate boxes now. Still got abou’ twenty.” 

“Well, that’s lucky,” said Ron. Hagrid missed the 
sarcasm. 

Hagrid’s cabin comprised a single room, in one corner 
of which was a gigantic bed covered in a patchwork 
quilt. A similarly enormous wooden table and chairs 
stood in front of the fire beneath the quantity of cured 
hams and dead birds hanging from the ceiling. They 
sat down at the table while Hagrid started to make 
tea, and were soon immersed in yet more discussion 
of the Triwizard Tournament. Hagrid seemed quite as 
excited about it as they were. 

“You wait,” he said, grinning. “You jus’ wait. Yer going 
ter see some stuff yeh’ve never seen before. Firs’ task 
... ah, but I’m not supposed ter say.” 

“Go on, Hagrid!” Harry, Ron, and Hermione urged 
him, but he just shook his head, grinning. 

“I don’ want ter spoil it fer yeh,” said Hagrid. “But it’s 
gonna be spectacular, I’ll tell yeh that. Them 
champions ’re going ter have their work cut out. Never 
thought I’d live ter see the Triwizard Tournament 
played again!” 



Page | 293 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They ended up having lunch with Hagrid, though they 
didn’t eat much — Hagrid had made what he said was 
a beef casserole, but after Hermione unearthed a 
large talon in hers, she, Harry, and Ron rather lost 
their appetites. However, they enjoyed themselves 
trying to make Hagrid tell them what the tasks in the 
tournament were going to be, speculating which of 
the entrants were likely to be selected as champions, 
and wondering whether Fred and George were 
beardless yet. 

A light rain had started to fall by midafternoon; it was 
very cozy sitting by the fire, listening to the gentle 
patter of the drops on the window, watching Hagrid 
darning his socks and arguing with Hermione about 
house-elves — for he flatly refused to join S.P.E.W. 
when she showed him her badges. 

“It’d be doin’ ’em an unkindness, Hermione,” he said 
gravely, threading a massive bone needle with thick 
yellow yarn. “It’s in their nature ter look after 
humans, that’s what they like, see? Yeh’d be makin’ 
’em unhappy ter take away their work, an’ insultin’ 
’em if yeh tried ter pay ’em.” 

“But Harry set Dobby free, and he was over the moon 
about it!” said Hermione. “And we heard he’s asking 
for wages now!” 

“Yeah, well, yeh get weirdos in every breed. I’m not 
sayin’ there isn’t the odd elf who’d take freedom, but 
yeh’ll never persuade most of ’em ter do it — no, 
nothin’ doin’, Hermione.” 

Hermione looked very cross indeed and stuffed her 
box of badges back into her cloak pocket. 

By half past five it was growing dark, and Ron, Harry, 
and Hermione decided it was time to get back up to 

Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the castle for the Halloween feast — and, more 
important, the announcement of the school 
champions. 

“I’ll come with yeh,” said Hagrid, putting away his 
darning. “Jus’ give us a sec.” 

Hagrid got up, went across to the chest of drawers 
beside his bed, and began searching for something 
inside it. They didn’t pay too much attention until a 
truly horrible smell reached their nostrils. Coughing, 
Ron said, “Hagrid, what’s that?” 

“Eh?” said Hagrid, turning around with a large bottle 
in his hand. “Don’ yeh like it?” 

“Is that aftershave?” said Hermione in a slightly 
choked voice. 

“Er — eau de cologne,” Hagrid muttered. He was 
blushing. “Maybe it’s a bit much,” he said gruffly. “I’ll 
go take it off, hang on . . . 

He stumped out of the cabin, and they saw him 
washing himself vigorously in the water barrel outside 
the window. 

“Eau de cologne?” said Hermione in amazement. 
“Hagrid?” 

“And what’s with the hair and the suit?” said Harry in 
an undertone. 

“Look!” said Ron suddenly, pointing out of the 
window. 

Hagrid had just straightened up and turned ’round. If 
he had been blushing before, it was nothing to what 
he was doing now. Getting to their feet very 

Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




cautiously, so that Hagrid wouldn’t spot them, Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione peered through the window and 
saw that Madame Maxime and the Beauxbatons 
students had just emerged from their carriage, clearly 
about to set off for the feast too. They couldn’t hear 
what Hagrid was saying, but he was talking to 
Madame Maxime with a rapt, misty-eyed expression 
Harry had only ever seen him wear once before — 
when he had been looking at the baby dragon, 

Norbert. 

“He’s going up to the castle with her!” said Hermione 
indignantly. “I thought he was waiting for us!” 

Without so much as a backward glance at his cabin, 
Hagrid was trudging off up the grounds with Madame 
Maxime, the Beauxbatons students following in their 
wake, jogging to keep up with their enormous strides. 

“He fancies her!” said Ron incredulously. “Well, if they 
end up having children, they’ll be setting a world 
record — bet any baby of theirs would weigh about a 
ton.” 

They let themselves out of the cabin and shut the 
door behind them. It was surprisingly dark outside. 
Drawing their cloaks more closely around themselves, 
they set off up the sloping lawns. 

“Ooh it’s them, look!” Hermione whispered. 

The Durmstrang party was walking up toward the 
castle from the lake. Viktor Krum was walking side by 
side with Karkaroff, and the other Durmstrang 
students were straggling along behind them. Ron 
watched Krum excitedly, but Krum did not look 
around as he reached the front doors a little ahead of 
Hermione, Ron, and Harry and proceeded through 
them. 

Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




When they entered the candlelit Great Hall it was 
almost full. The Goblet of Fire had been moved; it was 
now standing in front of Dumbledore ’s empty chair at 
the teachers’ table. Fred and George — clean-shaven 
again — seemed to have taken their disappointment 
fairly well. 

“Hope it’s Angelina,” said Fred as Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione sat down. 

“So do I!” said Hermione breathlessly. “Well, we’ll 
soon know!” 

The Halloween feast seemed to take much longer than 
usual. Perhaps because it was their second feast in 
two days, Harry didn’t seem to fancy the 
extravagantly prepared food as much as he would 
have normally. Like everyone else in the Hall, judging 
by the constantly craning necks, the impatient 
expressions on every face, the fidgeting, and the 
standing up to see whether Dumbledore had finished 
eating yet, Harry simply wanted the plates to clear, 
and to hear who had been selected as champions. 

At long last, the golden plates returned to their 
original spotless state; there was a sharp upswing in 
the level of noise within the Hall, which died away 
almost instantly as Dumbledore got to his feet. On 
either side of him, Professor Karkaroff and Madame 
Maxime looked as tense and expectant as anyone. 
Ludo Bagman was beaming and winking at various 
students. Mr. Crouch, however, looked quite 
uninterested, almost bored. 

“Well, the goblet is almost ready to make its decision,” 
said Dumbledore. “I estimate that it requires one 
more minute. Now, when the champions’ names are 
called, I would ask them please to come up to the top 
of the Hall, walk along the staff table, and go through 
Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




into the next chamber” — he indicated the door 
behind the staff table — “where they will be receiving 
their first instructions.” 

He took out his wand and gave a great sweeping wave 
with it; at once, all the candles except those inside the 
carved pumpkins were extinguished, plunging them 
into a state of semidarkness. The Goblet of Fire now 
shone more brightly than anything in the whole Hall, 
the sparkling bright, bluey-whiteness of the flames 
almost painful on the eyes. Everyone watched, 
waiting. ... A few people kept checking their watches. 



“Any second,” Lee Jordan whispered, two seats away 
from Harry. 

The flames inside the goblet turned suddenly red 
again. Sparks began to fly from it. Next moment, a 
tongue of flame shot into the air, a charred piece of 
parchment fluttered out of it — the whole room 
gasped. 

Dumbledore caught the piece of parchment and held 
it at arm’s length, so that he could read it by the light 
of the flames, which had turned back to blue-white. 

“The champion for Durmstrang,” he read, in a strong, 
clear voice, “will be Viktor Krum.” 

“No surprises there!” yelled Ron as a storm of 
applause and cheering swept the Hall. Harry saw 
Viktor Krum rise from the Slytherin table and slouch 
up toward Dumbledore; he turned right, walked along 
the staff table, and disappeared through the door into 
the next chamber. 



Page | 298 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Bravo, Viktor!” boomed Karkaroff, so loudly that 
everyone could hear him, even over all the applause. 
“Knew you had it in you!” 

The clapping and chatting died down. Now everyone’s 
attention was focused again on the goblet, which, 
seconds later, turned red once more. A second piece 
of parchment shot out of it, propelled by the flames. 

“The champion for Beauxbatons,” said Dumbledore, 

“is Fleur Delacour!” 

“It’s her, Ron!” Harry shouted as the girl who so 
resembled a veela got gracefully to her feet, shook 
back her sheet of silvery blonde hair, and swept up 
between the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff tables. 

“Oh look, they’re all disappointed,” Hermione said 
over the noise, nodding toward the remainder of the 
Beauxbatons party. “Disappointed” was a bit of an 
understatement, Harry thought. Two of the girls who 
had not been selected had dissolved into tears and 
were sobbing with their heads on their arms. 

When Fleur Delacour too had vanished into the side 
chamber, silence fell again, but this time it was a 
silence so stiff with excitement you could almost taste 
it. The Hogwarts champion next ... 

And the Goblet of Fire turned red once more; sparks 
showered out of it; the tongue of flame shot high into 
the air, and from its tip Dumbledore pulled the third 
piece of parchment. 

“The Hogwarts champion,” he called, “is Cedric 
Diggory!” 

“No!” said Ron loudly, but nobody heard him except 
Harry; the uproar from the next table was too great. 

Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Every single Hufflepuff had jumped to his or her feet, 
screaming and stamping, as Cedric made his way 
past them, grinning broadly, and headed off toward 
the chamber behind the teachers’ table. Indeed, the 
applause for Cedric went on so long that it was some 
time before Dumbledore could make himself heard 
again. 

“Excellent!” Dumbledore called happily as at last the 
tumult died down. “Well, we now have our three 
champions. I am sure I can count upon all of you, 
including the remaining students from Beauxbatons 
and Durmstrang, to give your champions every ounce 
of support you can muster. By cheering your 
champion on, you will contribute in a very real — ” 

But Dumbledore suddenly stopped speaking, and it 
was apparent to everybody what had distracted him. 

The fire in the goblet had just turned red again. 
Sparks were flying out of it. A long flame shot 
suddenly into the air, and borne upon it was another 
piece of parchment. 

Automatically, it seemed, Dumbledore reached out a 
long hand and seized the parchment. He held it out 
and stared at the name written upon it. There was a 
long pause, during which Dumbledore stared at the 
slip in his hands, and everyone in the room stared at 
Dumbledore. And then Dumbledore cleared his throat 
and read out — 

“ Harry Potter.” 



Page | 300 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 





THE FOUR CHAMPIONS 

Harry sat there, aware that every head in the Great 
Hall had turned to look at him. He was stunned. He 
felt numb. He was surely dreaming. He had not heard 
correctly. 

There was no applause. A buzzing, as though of angry 
bees, was starting to fill the Hall; some students were 
standing up to get a better look at Harry as he sat, 
frozen, in his seat. 

Up at the top table, Professor McGonagall had got to 
her feet and swept past Ludo Bagman and Professor 
Karkaroff to whisper urgently to Professor 
Dumbledore, who bent his ear toward her, frowning 
slightly. 

Harry turned to Ron and Hermione; beyond them, he 
saw the long Gryffindor table all watching him, 
openmouthed. 

“I didn’t put my name in,” Harry said blankly. “You 
know I didn’t.” 

Page | 301 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



Both of them stared just as blankly back. 

At the top table, Professor Dumbledore had 
straightened up, nodding to Professor McGonagall. 

“Harry Potter!” he called again. “Harry! Up here, if you 
please!” 

“Go on,” Hermione whispered, giving Harry a slight 
push. 

Harry got to his feet, trod on the hem of his robes, 
and stumbled slightly. He set off up the gap between 
the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables. It felt like an 
immensely long walk; the top table didn’t seem to be 
getting any nearer at all, and he could feel hundreds 
and hundreds of eyes upon him, as though each were 
a searchlight. The buzzing grew louder and louder. 
After what seemed like an hour, he was right in front 
of Dumbledore, feeling the stares of all the teachers 
upon him. 

“Well ... through the door, Harry,” said Dumbledore. 
He wasn’t smiling. 

Harry moved off along the teachers’ table. Hagrid was 
seated right at the end. He did not wink at Harry, or 
wave, or give any of his usual signs of greeting. He 
looked completely astonished and stared at Harry as 
he passed like everyone else. Harry went through the 
door out of the Great Hall and found himself in a 
smaller room, lined with paintings of witches and 
wizards. A handsome fire was roaring in the fireplace 
opposite him. 

The faces in the portraits turned to look at him as he 
entered. He saw a wizened witch flit out of the frame 
of her picture and into the one next to it, which 



Page | 302 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




contained a wizard with a walrus mustache. The 
wizened witch started whispering in his ear. 

Viktor Krum, Cedric Diggory, and Fleur Delacour 
were grouped around the fire. They looked strangely 
impressive, silhouetted against the flames. Krum, 
hunched-up and brooding, was leaning against the 
mantelpiece, slightly apart from the other two. Cedric 
was standing with his hands behind his back, staring 
into the fire. Fleur Delacour looked around when 
Harry walked in and threw back her sheet of long, 
silvery hair. 

“What is it?” she said. “Do zey want us back in ze 
Hall?” 

She thought he had come to deliver a message. Harry 
didn’t know how to explain what had just happened. 
He just stood there, looking at the three champions. It 
struck him how very tall all of them were. 

There was a sound of scurrying feet behind him, and 
Ludo Bagman entered the room. He took Harry by the 
arm and led him forward. 

“Extraordinary!” he muttered, squeezing Harry’s arm. 
“Absolutely extraordinary! Gentlemen ... lady,” he 
added, approaching the fireside and addressing the 
other three. “May I introduce — incredible though it 
may seem — the fourth Triwizard champion?” 

Viktor Krum straightened up. His surly face darkened 
as he surveyed Harry. Cedric looked nonplussed. He 
looked from Bagman to Harry and back again as 
though sure he must have misheard what Bagman 
had said. Fleur Delacour, however, tossed her hair, 
smiling, and said, “Oh, vairy funny joke, Meester 
Bagman.” 



Page | 303 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Joke?” Bagman repeated, bewildered. “No, no, not at 
all! Harry’s name just came out of the Goblet of Fire!” 

Krum’s thick eyebrows contracted slightly. Cedric was 
still looking politely bewildered. Fleur frowned. 

“But evidently zair ’as been a mistake,” she said 
contemptuously to Bagman. “ ’E cannot compete. ’E is 
too young.” 

“Well ... it is amazing,” said Bagman, rubbing his 
smooth chin and smiling down at Harry. “But, as you 
know, the age restriction was only imposed this year 
as an extra safety measure. And as his name’s come 
out of the goblet ... I mean, I don’t think there can be 
any ducking out at this stage. ... It’s down in the 
rules, you’re obliged ... Harry will just have to do the 
best he — ” 

The door behind them opened again, and a large 
group of people came in: Professor Dumbledore, 
followed closely by Mr. Crouch, Professor Karkaroff, 
Madame Maxime, Professor McGonagall, and 
Professor Snape. Harry heard the buzzing of the 
hundreds of students on the other side of the wall, 
before Professor McGonagall closed the door. 

“Madame Maxime!” said Fleur at once, striding over to 
her headmistress. “Zey are saying zat zis little boy is 
to compete also!” 

