remain. Swill these around the cup three times with 
the left hand, then turn the cup upside down on its 
saucer, wait for the last of the tea to drain away, then 
give your cup to your partner to read. You will 
interpret the patterns using pages five and six of 
Unfogging the Future. I shall move among you, helping 
and instructing. Oh, and dear” — she caught Neville 
by the arm as he made to stand up — “after you’ve 
broken your first cup, would you be so kind as to 
select one of the blue patterned ones? I’m rather 
attached to the pink.” 

Sure enough, Neville had no sooner reached the shelf 
of teacups when there was a tinkle of breaking china. 
Professor Trelawney swept over to him holding a 
dustpan and brush and said, “One of the blue ones, 
then, dear, if you wouldn’t mind ... thank you. ...” 

When Harry and Ron had had their teacups filled, 
they went back to their table and tried to drink the 
scalding tea quickly. They swilled the dregs around as 
Professor Trelawney had instructed, then drained the 
cups and swapped over. 

“Right,” said Ron as they both opened their books at 
pages five and six. “What can you see in mine?” 

“A load of soggy brown stuff,” said Harry. The heavily 
perfumed smoke in the room was making him feel 
sleepy and stupid. 

“Broaden your minds, my dears, and allow your eyes 
to see past the mundane!” Professor Trelawney cried 
through the gloom. 

Page | 115 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry tried to pull himself together. 

“Right, you’ve got a crooked sort of cross ...” He 
consulted Unfogging the Future. “That means you’re 
going to have ‘trials and suffering’ — sorry about that 
— but there’s a thing that could be the sun ... hang 
on ... that means ‘great happiness’ ... so you’re going 
to suffer but be very happy. ...” 

“You need your Inner Eye tested, if you ask me,” said 
Ron, and they both had to stifle their laughs as 
Professor Trelawney gazed in their direction. 

“My turn ...” Ron peered into Harry’s teacup, his 
forehead wrinkled with effort. “There’s a blob a bit like 
a bowler hat,” he said. “Maybe you’re going to work 
for the Ministry of Magic. ...” 

He turned the teacup the other way up. 

“But this way it looks more like an acorn. ... What’s 
that?” He scanned his copy of Unfogging the Future. “ 
‘A windfall, unexpected gold.’ Excellent, you can lend 
me some ... and there’s a thing here,” he turned the 
cup again, “that looks like an animal . . . yeah, if that 
was its head ... it looks like a hippo ... no, a sheep ...” 

Professor Trelawney whirled around as Harry let out a 
snort of laughter. 

“Let me see that, my dear,” she said reprovingly to 
Ron, sweeping over and snatching Harry’s cup from 
him. Everyone went quiet to watch. 

Professor Trelawney was staring into the teacup, 
rotating it counterclockwise. 

“The falcon ... my dear, you have a deadly enemy.” 



Page | 116 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“But everyone knows that,” said Hermione in a loud 
whisper. Professor Trelawney stared at her. 

“Well, they do,” said Hermione. “Everybody knows 
about Harry and You-Know-Who.” 

Harry and Ron stared at her with a mixture of 
amazement and admiration. They had never heard 
Hermione speak to a teacher like that before. 

Professor Trelawney chose not to reply. She lowered 
her huge eyes to Harry’s cup again and continued to 
turn it. 

“The club ... an attack. Dear, dear, this is not a happy 
cup. ...” 

“I thought that was a bowler hat,” said Ron 
sheepishly. 

“The skull ... danger in your path, my dear. ...” 

Everyone was staring, transfixed, at Professor 
Trelawney, who gave the cup a final turn, gasped, and 
then screamed. 

There was another tinkle of breaking china; Neville 
had smashed his second cup. Professor Trelawney 
sank into a vacant armchair, her glittering hand at 
her heart and her eyes closed. 

“My dear boy . . . my poor, dear boy ... no ... it is 
kinder not to say ... no ... don’t ask me. ...” 

“What is it, Professor?” said Dean Thomas at once. 
Everyone had got to their feet, and slowly they 
crowded around Harry and Ron’s table, pressing close 
to Professor Trelawney’s chair to get a good look at 
Harry’s cup. 



Page | 117 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“My dear,” Professor Trelawney’s huge eyes opened 
dramatically, “you have the Grim.” 



“The what?” said Harry. 

He could tell that he wasn’t the only one who didn’t 
understand; Dean Thomas shrugged at him and 
Lavender Brown looked puzzled, but nearly everybody 
else clapped their hands to their mouths in horror. 

“The Grim, my dear, the Grim!” cried Professor 
Trelawney, who looked shocked that Harry hadn’t 
understood. “The giant, spectral dog that haunts 
churchyards! My dear boy, it is an omen — the worst 
omen — of death .!” 

Harry’s stomach lurched. That dog on the cover of 
Death Omens in Flourish and Blotts — the dog in the 
shadows of Magnolia Crescent . . . Lavender Brown 
clapped her hands to her mouth too. Everyone was 
looking at Harry, everyone except Hermione, who had 
gotten up and moved around to the back of Professor 
Trelawney’s chair. 

“I don’t think it looks like a Grim,” she said flatly. 

Professor Trelawney surveyed Hermione with 
mounting dislike. 

“You’ll forgive me for saying so, my dear, but I 
perceive very little aura around you. Very little 
receptivity to the resonances of the future.” 

Seamus Finnigan was tilting his head from side to 
side. 

“It looks like a Grim if you do this,” he said, with his 
eyes almost shut, “but it looks more like a donkey 
from here,” he said, leaning to the left. 

Page | 118 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“When you’ve all finished deciding whether I’m going 
to die or not!” said Harry, taking even himself by 
surprise. Now nobody seemed to want to look at him. 

“I think we will leave the lesson here for today,” said 
Professor Trelawney in her mistiest voice. “Yes ... 
please pack away your things. ...” 

Silently the class took their teacups back to Professor 
Trelawney, packed away their books, and closed their 
bags. Even Ron was avoiding Harry’s eyes. 

“Until we meet again,” said Professor Trelawney 
faintly, “fair fortune be yours. Oh, and dear” — she 
pointed at Neville — “you’ll be late next time, so mind 
you work extra-hard to catch up.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione descended Professor 
Trelawney’s ladder and the winding stair in silence, 
then set off for Professor McGonagall’s 
Transfiguration lesson. It took them so long to find 
her classroom that, early as they had left Divination, 
they were only just in time. 

Harry chose a seat right at the back of the room, 
feeling as though he were sitting in a very bright 
spotlight; the rest of the class kept shooting furtive 
glances at him, as though he were about to drop dead 
at any moment. He hardly heard what Professor 
McGonagall was telling them about Animagi (wizards 
who could transform at will into animals), and wasn’t 
even watching when she transformed herself in front 
of their eyes into a tabby cat with spectacle markings 
around her eyes. 

“Really, what has got into you all today?” said 
Professor McGonagall, turning back into herself with 
a faint pop, and staring around at them all. “Not that 



Page | 119 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




it matters, but that’s the first time my 
transformation’s not got applause from a class.” 



Everybody’s heads turned toward Harry again, but 
nobody spoke. Then Hermione raised her hand. 

“Please, Professor, we’ve just had our first Divination 
class, and we were reading the tea leaves, and — ” 

“Ah, of course,” said Professor McGonagall, suddenly 
frowning. “There is no need to say any more, Miss 
Granger. Tell me, which of you will be dying this 
year?” 

Everyone stared at her. 

“Me,” said Harry, finally. 

“I see,” said Professor McGonagall, fixing Harry with 
her beady eyes. “Then you should know, Potter, that 
Sibyll Trelawney has predicted the death of one 
student a year since she arrived at this school. None 
of them has died yet. Seeing death omens is her 
favorite way of greeting a new class. If it were not for 
the fact that I never speak ill of my colleagues — ” 

Professor McGonagall broke off, and they saw that her 
nostrils had gone white. She went on, more calmly, 
“Divination is one of the most imprecise branches of 
magic. I shall not conceal from you that I have very 
little patience with it. True Seers are very rare, and 
Professor Trelawney — ” 

She stopped again, and then said, in a very matter-of- 
fact tone, “You look in excellent health to me, Potter, 
so you will excuse me if I don’t let you off homework 
today. I assure you that if you die, you need not hand 
it in.” 

Page | 120 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione laughed. Harry felt a bit better. It was 
harder to feel scared of a lump of tea leaves away 
from the dim red light and befuddling perfume of 
Professor Trelawney’s classroom. Not everyone was 
convinced, however. Ron still looked worried, and 
Lavender whispered, “But what about Neville’s cup?” 

When the Transfiguration class had finished, they 
joined the crowd thundering toward the Great Hall for 
lunch. 

“Ron, cheer up,” said Hermione, pushing a dish of 
stew toward him. “You heard what Professor 
McGonagall said.” 

Ron spooned stew onto his plate and picked up his 
fork but didn’t start. 

“Harry,” he said, in a low, serious voice, “you haven’t 
seen a great black dog anywhere, have you?” 

“Yeah, I have,” said Harry. “I saw one the night I left 
the Dursleys’.” 

Ron let his fork fall with a clatter. 

“Probably a stray,” said Hermione calmly. 

Ron looked at Hermione as though she had gone 
mad. 

“Hermione, if Harry’s seen a Grim, that’s — that’s 
bad,” he said. “My — my uncle Bilius saw one and — 
and he died twenty-four hours later!” 

“Coincidence,” said Hermione airily, pouring herself 
some pumpkin juice. 



Page | 121 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You don’t know what you’re talking about!” said Ron, 
starting to get angry. “Grims scare the living daylights 
out of most wizards!” 

“There you are, then,” said Hermione in a superior 
tone. “They see the Grim and die of fright. The Grim’s 
not an omen, it’s the cause of death! And Harry’s still 
with us because he’s not stupid enough to see one 
and think, right, well, I’d better kick the bucket then!” 

Ron mouthed wordlessly at Hermione, who opened 
her bag, took out her new Arithmancy book, and 
propped it open against the juice jug. 

“I think Divination seems very woolly,” she said, 
searching for her page. “A lot of guesswork, if you ask 
me.” 

“There was nothing woolly about the Grim in that 
cup!” said Ron hotly. 

“You didn’t seem quite so confident when you were 
telling Harry it was a sheep,” said Hermione coolly. 

“Professor Trelawney said you didn’t have the right 
aura! You just don’t like being bad at something for a 
change!” 

He had touched a nerve. Hermione slammed her 
Arithmancy book down on the table so hard that bits 
of meat and carrot flew everywhere. 

“If being good at Divination means I have to pretend 
to see death omens in a lump of tea leaves, I’m not 
sure I’ll be studying it much longer! That lesson was 
absolute rubbish compared with my Arithmancy 
class!” 



She snatched up her bag and stalked away. 

Page | 122 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Ron frowned after her. 



“What’s she talking about?” he said to Harry. “She 
hasn’t been to an Arithmancy class yet.” 

Harry was pleased to get out of the castle after lunch. 
Yesterday’s rain had cleared; the sky was a clear, pale 
gray, and the grass was springy and damp underfoot 
as they set off for their first ever Care of Magical 
Creatures class. 

Ron and Hermione weren’t speaking to each other. 
Harry walked beside them in silence as they went 
down the sloping lawns to Hagrid’s hut on the edge of 
the Forbidden Forest. It was only when he spotted 
three only-too-familiar backs ahead of them that he 
realized they must be having these lessons with the 
Slytherins. Malfoy was talking animatedly to Crabbe 
and Goyle, who were chortling. Harry was quite sure 
he knew what they were talking about. 

Hagrid was waiting for his class at the door of his hut. 
He stood in his moleskin overcoat, with Fang the 
boarhound at his heels, looking impatient to start. 

“C’mon, now, get a move on!” he called as the class 
approached. “Got a real treat for yeh today! Great 
lesson cornin’ up! Everyone here? Right, follow me!” 

For one nasty moment, Harry thought that Hagrid 
was going to lead them into the forest; Harry had had 
enough unpleasant experiences in there to last him a 
lifetime. However, Hagrid strolled off around the edge 
of the trees, and five minutes later, they found 
themselves outside a kind of paddock. There was 
nothing in there. 



Page | 123 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Everyone gather ’round the fence here!” he called. 
“That’s it — make sure yeh can see — now, firs’ thing 
yeh’ll want ter do is open yer books — ” 

“How?” said the cold, drawling voice of Draco Malfoy. 

“Eh?” said Hagrid. 

“How do we open our books?” Malfoy repeated. He 
took out his copy of The Monster Book of Monsters, 
which he had bound shut with a length of rope. Other 
people took theirs out too; some, like Harry, had 
belted their book shut; others had crammed them 
inside tight bags or clamped them together with 
binder clips. 

“Hasn’ — hasn’ anyone bin able ter open their 
books?” said Hagrid, looking crestfallen. 

The class all shook their heads. 

“Yeh’ve got ter stroke ’em,” said Hagrid, as though 
this was the most obvious thing in the world. “Look — 



He took Hermione’s copy and ripped off the Spellotape 
that bound it. The book tried to bite, but Hagrid ran a 
giant forefinger down its spine, and the book 
shivered, and then fell open and lay quiet in his hand. 

“Oh, how silly we’ve all been!” Malfoy sneered. “We 
should have stroked them! Why didn’t we guess!” 

“I — I thought they were funny,” Hagrid said 
uncertainly to Hermione. 

“Oh, tremendously funny!” said Malfoy. “Really witty, 
giving us books that try and rip our hands off!” 



Page | 124 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Shut up, Malfoy,” said Harry quietly. Hagrid was 
looking downcast and Harry wanted Hagrid ’s first 
lesson to be a success. 

“Righ’ then,” said Hagrid, who seemed to have lost his 
thread, “so — so yeh’ve got yer books an’ — an’ — 
now yeh need the Magical Creatures. Yeah. So I’ll go 
an’ get ’em. Hang on ...” 

He strode away from them into the forest and out of 
sight. 

“God, this place is going to the dogs,” said Malfoy 
loudly. “That oaf teaching classes, my father’ll have a 
fit when I tell him — ” 

“Shut up, Malfoy,” Harry repeated. 

“Careful, Potter, there’s a dementor behind you — ” 

“Oooooooh!” squealed Lavender Brown, pointing 
toward the opposite side of the paddock. 

Trotting toward them were a dozen of the most bizarre 
creatures Harry had ever seen. They had the bodies, 
hind legs, and tails of horses, but the front legs, 
wings, and heads of what seemed to be giant eagles, 
with cruel, steel-colored beaks and large, brilliantly 
orange eyes. The talons on their front legs were half a 
foot long and deadly looking. Each of the beasts had a 
thick leather collar around its neck, which was 
attached to a long chain, and the ends of all of these 
were held in the vast hands of Hagrid, who came 
jogging into the paddock behind the creatures. 

“Gee up, there!” he roared, shaking the chains and 
urging the creatures toward the fence where the class 
stood. Everyone drew back slightly as Hagrid reached 
them and tethered the creatures to the fence. 

Page | 125 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Hippogriffs!” Hagrid roared happily, waving a hand at 
them. “Beau’iful, aren’ they?” 

Harry could sort of see what Hagrid meant. Once you 
got over the first shock of seeing something that was 
half horse, half bird, you started to appreciate the 
hippogriffs’ gleaming coats, changing smoothly from 
feather to hair, each of them a different color: stormy 
gray, bronze, pinkish roan, gleaming chestnut, and 
inky black. 

“So,” said Hagrid, rubbing his hands together and 
beaming around, “if yeh wan’ ter come a bit nearer — ” 

No one seemed to want to. Harry, Ron, and Hermione, 
however, approached the fence cautiously. 

“Now, firs’ thing yeh gotta know abou’ hippogriffs is, 
they’re proud,” said Hagrid. “Easily offended, 
hippogriffs are. Don’t never insult one, ’cause it might 
be the last thing yeh do.” 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle weren’t listening; they 
were talking in an undertone and Harry had a nasty 
feeling they were plotting how best to disrupt the 
lesson. 

“Yeh always wait fer the hippogriff ter make the firs’ 
move,” Hagrid continued. “It’s polite, see? Yeh walk 
toward him, and yeh bow, an’ yeh wait. If he bows 
back, yeh’re allowed ter touch him. If he doesn’ bow, 
then get away from him sharpish, ’cause those talons 
hurt. 

“Right — who wants ter go first?” 

Most of the class backed farther away in answer. 

Even Harry, Ron, and Hermione had misgivings. The 
hippogriffs were tossing their fierce heads and flexing 

Page | 126 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




their powerful wings; they didn’t seem to like being 
tethered like this. 

“No one?” said Hagrid, with a pleading look. 

“I’ll do it,” said Harry. 

There was an intake of breath from behind him, and 
both Lavender and Parvati whispered, “Oooh, no, 
Harry, remember your tea leaves!” 

Harry ignored them. He climbed over the paddock 
fence. 

“Good man, Harry!” roared Hagrid. “Right then — let’s 
see how yeh get on with Buckbeak.” 

He untied one of the chains, pulled the gray hippogriff 
away from its fellows, and slipped off its leather 
collar. The class on the other side of the paddock 
seemed to be holding its breath. Malfoy’s eyes were 
narrowed maliciously. 

“Easy, now, Harry,” said Hagrid quietly. “Yeh’ve got 
eye contact, now try not ter blink. ... Hippogriffs don’ 
trust yeh if yeh blink too much. ...” 

Harry’s eyes immediately began to water, but he 
didn’t shut them. Buckbeak had turned his great, 
sharp head and was staring at Harry with one fierce 
orange eye. 

“Tha’s it,” said Hagrid. “Tha’s it, Harry ... now, bow 



Harry didn’t feel much like exposing the back of his 
neck to Buckbeak, but he did as he was told. He gave 
a short bow and then looked up. 



Page | 127 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The hippogriff was still staring haughtily at him. It 
didn’t move. 

“Ah,” said Hagrid, sounding worried. “Right — back 
away, now, Harry, easy does it — ” 

But then, to Harry’s enormous surprise, the hippogriff 
suddenly bent its scaly front knees and sank into 
what was an unmistakable bow. 

“Well done, Harry!” said Hagrid, ecstatic. “Right — 
yeh can touch him! Pat his beak, go on!” 

Feeling that a better reward would have been to back 
away, Harry moved slowly toward the hippogriff and 
reached out toward it. He patted the beak several 
times and the hippogriff closed its eyes lazily, as 
though enjoying it. 

The class broke into applause, all except for Malfoy, 
Crabbe, and Goyle, who were looking deeply 
disappointed. 

“Righ’ then, Harry,” said Hagrid. “I reckon he might’ 
let yeh ride him!” 

This was more than Harry had bargained for. He was 
used to a broomstick; but he wasn’t sure a hippogriff 
would be quite the same. 

“Yeh climb up there, jus’ behind the wing joint,” said 
Hagrid, “an’ mind yeh don’ pull any of his feathers 
out, he won’ like that. ...” 

Harry put his foot on the top of Buckbeak’s wing and 
hoisted himself onto its back. Buckbeak stood up. 
Harry wasn’t sure where to hold on; everything in 
front of him was covered with feathers. 



Page | 128 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Go on, then!” roared Hagrid, slapping the hippogriff’s 
hindquarters. 

Without warning, twelve-foot wings flapped open on 
either side of Harry; he just had time to seize the 
hippogriff around the neck before he was soaring 
upward. It was nothing like a broomstick, and Harry 
knew which one he preferred; the hippogriff’s wings 
beat uncomfortably on either side of him, catching 
him under his legs and making him feel he was about 
to be thrown off; the glossy feathers slipped under his 
fingers and he didn’t dare get a stronger grip; instead 
of the smooth action of his Nimbus Two Thousand, he 
now felt himself rocking backward and forward as the 
hindquarters of the hippogriff rose and fell with its 
wings. 

Buckbeak flew him once around the paddock and 
then headed back to the ground; this was the bit 
Harry had been dreading; he leaned back as the 
smooth neck lowered, feeling he was going to slip off 
over the beak, then felt a heavy thud as the four ill- 
assorted feet hit the ground. He just managed to hold 
on and push himself straight again. 

“Good work, Harry!” roared Hagrid as everyone except 
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle cheered. “Okay, who else 
wants a go?” 

Emboldened by Harry’s success, the rest of the class 
climbed cautiously into the paddock. Hagrid untied 
the hippogriffs one by one, and soon people were 
bowing nervously, all over the paddock. Neville ran 
repeatedly backward from his, which didn’t seem to 
want to bend its knees. Ron and Hermione practiced 
on the chestnut, while Harry watched. 



Page | 129 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had taken over Buckbeak. 
He had bowed to Malfoy, who was now patting his 
beak, looking disdainful. 

“This is very easy,” Malfoy drawled, loud enough for 
Harry to hear him. “I knew it must have been, if 
Potter could do it. ... I bet you’re not dangerous at all, 
are you?” he said to the hippogriff. “Are you, you great 
ugly brute?” 

It happened in a flash of steely talons; Malfoy let out a 
high-pitched scream and next moment, Hagrid was 
wrestling Buckbeak back into his collar as he 
strained to get at Malfoy, who lay curled in the grass, 
blood blossoming over his robes. 

“I’m dying!” Malfoy yelled as the class panicked. “I’m 
dying, look at me! It’s killed me!” 

“Yer not dyin’!” said Hagrid, who had gone very white. 
“Someone help me — gotta get him outta here — ” 

Hermione ran to hold open the gate as Hagrid lifted 
Malfoy easily. As they passed, Harry saw that there 
was a long, deep gash on Malfoy’s arm; blood 
splattered the grass and Hagrid ran with him, up the 
slope toward the castle. 

Very shaken, the Care of Magical Creatures class 
followed at a walk. The Slytherins were all shouting 
about Hagrid. 

“They should fire him straight away!” said Pansy 
Parkinson, who was in tears. 

“It was Malfoy’s fault!” snapped Dean Thomas. 

Crabbe and Goyle flexed their muscles threateningly. 



Page | 130 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




They all climbed the stone steps into the deserted 
entrance hall. 

“I’m going to see if he’s okay!” said Pansy, and they all 
watched her run up the marble staircase. The 
Slytherins, still muttering about Hagrid, headed away 
in the direction of their dungeon common room; 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione proceeded upstairs to 
Gryffindor Tower. 

“D’you think he’ll be all right?” said Hermione 
nervously. 

“ ’Course he will. Madam Pomfrey can mend cuts in 
about a second,” said Harry, who had had far worse 
injuries mended magically by the nurse. 

“That was a really bad thing to happen in Hagrid ’s 
first class, though, wasn’t it?” said Ron, looking 
worried. “Trust Malfoy to mess things up for him. ...” 

They were among the first to reach the Great Hall at 
dinnertime, hoping to see Hagrid, but he wasn’t there. 

“They wouldn’t fire him, would they?” said Hermione 
anxiously, not touching her steak-and-kidney 
pudding. 

“They’d better not,” said Ron, who wasn’t eating 
either. 

Harry was watching the Slytherin table. A large group 
including Crabbe and Goyle was huddled together, 
deep in conversation. Harry was sure they were 
cooking up their own version of how Malfoy had been 
injured. 

“Well, you can’t say it wasn’t an interesting first day 
back,” said Ron gloomily. 

Page | 131 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




They went up to the crowded Gryffindor common 
room after dinner and tried to do the homework 
Professor McGonagall had given them, but all three of 
them kept breaking off and glancing out of the tower 
window. 

“There’s a light on in Hagrid’s window,” Harry said 
suddenly. 

Ron looked at his watch. 

“If we hurried, we could go down and see him. It’s still 
quite early. ...” 

“I don’t know,” Hermione said slowly, and Harry saw 
her glance at him. 

“I’m allowed to walk across the grounds,” he said 
pointedly. “Sirius Black hasn’t got past the dementors 
yet, has he?” 

So they put their things away and headed out of the 
portrait hole, glad to meet nobody on their way to the 
front doors, as they weren’t entirely sure they were 
supposed to be out. 

The grass was still wet and looked almost black in the 
twilight. When they reached Hagrid’s hut, they 
knocked, and a voice growled, “C’min.” 

Hagrid was sitting in his shirtsleeves at his scrubbed 
wooden table; his boarhound, Fang, had his head in 
Hagrid’s lap. One look told them that Hagrid had been 
drinking a lot; there was a pewter tankard almost as 
big as a bucket in front of him, and he seemed to be 
having difficulty getting them into focus. 



Page | 132 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ ’Spect it’s a record,” he said thickly, when he 
recognized them. “Don’ reckon they’ve ever had a 
teacher who lasted on’y a day before.” 

“You haven’t been fired, Hagrid!” gasped Hermione. 

“Not yet,” said Hagrid miserably, taking a huge gulp 
of whatever was in the tankard. “But ’s only a matter 
o’ time, i’n’t it, after Malfoy ...” 

“How is he?” said Ron as they all sat down. “It wasn’t 
serious, was it?” 

“Madam Pomfrey fixed him best she could,” said 
Hagrid dully, “but he’s sayin’ it’s still agony ... covered 
in bandages ... moanin’ ...” 

“He’s faking it,” said Harry at once. “Madam Pomfrey 
can mend anything. She regrew half my bones last 
year. Trust Malfoy to milk it for all it’s worth.” 

“School gov’nors have bin told, o’ course,” said Hagrid 
miserably. “They reckon I started too big. Shoulda left 
hippogriffs fer later ... done flobberworms or summat. 
... Jus’ thought it’d make a good firs’ lesson. ... ’S all 
my fault. ...” 

“It’s all Malfoy ’s fault, Hagrid!” said Hermione 
earnestly. 

“We’re witnesses,” said Harry. “You said hippogriffs 
attack if you insult them. It’s Malfoy’s problem that 
he wasn’t listening. We’ll tell Dumbledore what really 
happened.” 

“Yeah, don’t worry, Hagrid, we’ll back you up,” said 
Ron. 



Page | 133 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Tears leaked out of the crinkled corners of Hagrid ’s 
beetle-black eyes. He grabbed both Harry and Ron 
and pulled them into a bone-breaking hug. 

“I think you’ve had enough to drink, Hagrid,” said 
Hermione firmly. She took the tankard from the table 
and went outside to empty it. 

“Ar, maybe she’s right,” said Hagrid, letting go of 
Harry and Ron, who both staggered away, rubbing 
their ribs. Hagrid heaved himself out of his chair and 
followed Hermione unsteadily outside. They heard a 
loud splash. 

“What’s he done?” said Harry nervously as Hermione 
came back in with the empty tankard. 

“Stuck his head in the water barrel,” said Hermione, 
putting the tankard away. 

Hagrid came back, his long hair and beard sopping 
wet, wiping the water out of his eyes. 

“Tha’s better,” he said, shaking his head like a dog 
and drenching them all. “Listen, it was good of yeh ter 
come an’ see me, I really — ” 

Hagrid stopped dead, staring at Harry as though he’d 
only just realized he was there. 

“WHAT DYEH THINK YOU’RE DOIN’, EH?” he roared, 
so suddenly that they jumped a foot in the air. 

“YEH ’RE NOT TO GO WANDERIN’ AROUND AFTER 
DARK, HARRY! AN’ YOU TWO! LETTIN’ HIM!” 

Hagrid strode over to Harry, grabbed his arm, and 
pulled him to the door. 



Page | 134 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“C’mon!” Hagrid said angrily. “I’m takin’yer all back 
up ter school, an’ don’ let me catch yeh walkin’ down 
ter see me after dark again. I’m not worth that!” 



Page | 135 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




7 




THE BOGGART IN THE WARDROBE 

Malfoy didn’t reappear in classes until late on 
Thursday morning, when the Slytherins and 
Gryffindors were halfway through double Potions. He 
swaggered into the dungeon, his right arm covered in 
bandages and bound up in a sling, acting, in Harry’s 
opinion, as though he were the heroic survivor of 
some dreadful battle. 

“How is it, Draco?” simpered Pansy Parkinson. “Does 
it hurt much?” 

“Yeah,” said Malfoy, putting on a brave sort of 
grimace. But Harry saw him wink at Crabbe and 
Goyle when Pansy had looked away. 

“Settle down, settle down,” said Professor Snape idly. 

Harry and Ron scowled at each other; Snape wouldn’t 
have said “settle down” if they’d walked in late, he’d 
have given them detention. But Malfoy had always 
been able to get away with anything in Snape ’s 

Page | 136 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



classes; Snape was head of Slytherin House, and 
generally favored his own students above all others. 



They were making a new potion today, a Shrinking 
Solution. Malfoy set up his cauldron right next to 
Harry and Ron, so that they were preparing their 
ingredients on the same table. 

“Sir,” Malfoy called, “sir, I’ll need help cutting up 
these daisy roots, because of my arm — ” 

“Weasley, cut up Malfoy’s roots for him,” said Snape 
without looking up. 

Ron went brick red. 

“There’s nothing wrong with your arm,” he hissed at 
Malfoy. 

Malfoy smirked across the table. 

“Weasley, you heard Professor Snape; cut up these 
roots.” 

Ron seized his knife, pulled Malfoy’s roots toward 
him, and began to chop them roughly, so that they 
were all different sizes. 

“Professor,” drawled Malfoy, “Weasley’s mutilating my 
roots, sir.” 

Snape approached their table, stared down his 
hooked nose at the roots, then gave Ron an 
unpleasant smile from beneath his long, greasy black 
hair. 

“Change roots with Malfoy, Weasley.” 

“But, sir — !” 

Page | 137 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 

