five years old. 



Page | 269Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I am very much looking forward to getting to know 
you all, and I’m sure well be very good friends!” 

Students exchanged looks at this; some of them were 
barely concealing grins. 

“I’ll be her friend as long as I don’t have to borrow 
that cardigan,” Parvati whispered to Lavender, and 
both of them lapsed into silent giggles. 

Professor Umbridge cleared her throat again (“Hem, 
hem”), but when she continued, some of the 
breathiness had vanished from her voice. She 
sounded much more businesslike and now her words 
had a dull learned-by-heart sound to them. 

“The Ministry of Magic has always considered the 
education of young witches and wizards to be of vital 
importance. The rare gifts with which you were born 
may come to nothing if not nurtured and honed by 
careful instruction. The ancient skills unique to the 
Wizarding community must be passed down through 
the generations lest we lose them forever. The 
treasure trove of magical knowledge amassed by our 
ancestors must be guarded, replenished, and polished 
by those who have been called to the noble profession 
of teaching.” 

Professor Umbridge paused here and made a little 
bow to her fellow staff members, none of whom bowed 
back. Professor McGonagall’s dark eyebrows had 
contracted so that she looked positively hawklike, and 
Harry distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance 
with Professor Sprout as Umbridge gave another little 
“Hem, hem” and went on with her speech. 

“Every headmaster and headmistress of Hogwarts has 
brought something new to the weighty task of 
governing this historic school, and that is as it should 

Page | 270Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




be, for without progress there will be stagnation and 
decay. There again, progress for progress’s sake must 
be discouraged, for our tried and tested traditions 
often require no tinkering. A balance, then, between 
old and new, between permanence and change, 
between tradition and innovation ...” 

Harry found his attentiveness ebbing, as though his 
brain was slipping in and out of tune. The quiet that 
always filled the Hall when Dumbledore was speaking 
was breaking up as students put their heads 
together, whispering and giggling. Over at the 
Ravenclaw table, Cho Chang was chatting animatedly 
with her friends. A few seats along from Cho, Luna 
Lovegood had got out The Quibbler again. Meanwhile 
at the Hufflepuff table, Ernie Macmillan was one of 
the few still staring at Professor Umbridge, but he was 
glassy-eyed and Harry was sure he was only 
pretending to listen in an attempt to live up to the 
new prefect’s badge gleaming on his chest. 

Professor Umbridge did not seem to notice the 
restlessness of her audience. Harry had the 
impression that a full-scale riot could have broken 
out under her nose and she would have plowed on 
with her speech. The teachers, however, were still 
listening very attentively, and Hermione seemed to be 
drinking in every word Umbridge spoke, though 
judging by her expression, they were not at all to her 
taste. 

"... because some changes will be for the better, while 
others will come, in the fullness of time, to be 
recognized as errors of judgment. Meanwhile, some 
old habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas 
others, outmoded and outworn, must be abandoned. 
Let us move forward, then, into a new era of 
openness, effectiveness, and accountability, intent on 
preserving what ought to be preserved, perfecting 
Page | 271Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what needs to be perfected, and pruning wherever we 
find practices that ought to be prohibited.” 

She sat down. Dumbledore clapped. The staff followed 
his lead, though Harry noticed that several of them 
brought their hands together only once or twice 
before stopping. A few students joined in, but most 
had been taken unawares by the end of the speech, 
not having listened to more than a few words of it, 
and before they could start applauding properly, 
Dumbledore had stood up again. 

“Thank you very much, Professor Umbridge, that was 
most illuminating,” he said, bowing to her. “Now — as 
I was saying, Quidditch tryouts will be held ...” 

“Yes, it certainly was illuminating,” said Hermione in 
a low voice. 

“You’re not telling me you enjoyed it?” Ron said 
quietly, turning a glazed face upon Hermione. “That 
was about the dullest speech I’ve ever heard, and I 
grew up with Percy.” 

“I said illuminating, not enjoyable,” said Hermione. “It 
explained a lot.” 

“Did it?” said Harry in surprise. “Sounded like a load 
of waffle to me.” 

“There was some important stuff hidden in the 
waffle,” said Hermione grimly. 

“Was there?” said Ron blankly. 

“How about ‘progress for progress’s sake must be 
discouraged’? How about ‘pruning wherever we find 
practices that ought to be prohibited’?” 



Page | 272Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, what does that mean?” said Ron impatiently. 



“Ill tell you what it means,” said Hermione ominously. 
“It means the Ministry’s interfering at Hogwarts.” 

There was a great clattering and banging all around 
them; Dumbledore had obviously just dismissed the 
school, because everyone was standing up ready to 
leave the Hall. Hermione jumped up, looking 
flustered. 

“Ron, we’re supposed to show the first years where to 
go!” 

“Oh yeah,” said Ron, who had obviously forgotten. 
“Hey — hey you lot! Midgets!” 

“Ron\” 

“Well, they are, they’re titchy...” 

“I know, but you can’t call them midgets... First 
years!” Hermione called commandingly along the 
table. “This way, please!” 

A group of new students walked shyly up the gap 
between the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables, all of 
them trying hard not to lead the group. They did 
indeed seem very small; Harry was sure he had not 
appeared that young when he had arrived here. He 
grinned at them. A blond boy next to Euan 
Abercrombie looked petrified, nudged Euan, and 
whispered something in his ear. Euan Abercrombie 
looked equally frightened and stole a horrified look at 
Harry, who felt the grin slide off his face like 
Stinksap. 

“See you later,” he said to Ron and Hermione and he 
made his way out of the Great Hall alone, doing 

Page | 273Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




everything he could to ignore more whispering, 
staring, and pointing as he passed. He kept his eyes 
fixed ahead as he wove his way through the crowd in 
the entrance hall, then he hurried up the marble 
staircase, took a couple of concealed shortcuts, and 
had soon left most of the crowds behind. 

He had been stupid not to expect this, he thought 
angrily, as he walked through much emptier upstairs 
corridors. Of course everyone was staring at him: He 
had emerged from the Triwizard maze two months ago 
clutching the dead body of a fellow student and 
claiming to have seen Lord Voldemort return to 
power. There had not been time last term to explain 
himself before everyone went home, even if he had felt 
up to giving the whole school a detailed account of the 
terrible events in that graveyard. 

He had reached the end of the corridor to the 
Gryffindor common room and had come to a halt in 
front of the portrait of the Fat Lady before he realized 
that he did not know the new password. 

“Er ...” he said glumly, staring up at the Fat Lady, 
who smoothed the folds of her pink satin dress and 
looked sternly back at him. 

“No password, no entrance,” she said loftily. 

“Harry, I know it!” someone panted from behind him, 
and he turned to see Neville jogging toward him. 
“Guess what it is? I’m actually going to be able to 
remember it for once — ” He waved the stunted little 
cactus he had shown them on the train. “Mimbulus 
mimbletonio 1” 

“Correct,” said the Fat Lady, and her portrait swung 
open toward them like a door, revealing a circular 



Page | 274Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hole in the wall behind, through which Harry and 
Neville now climbed. 

The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as 
ever, a cozy circular tower room full of dilapidated 
squashy armchairs and rickety old tables. A fire was 
crackling merrily in the grate and a few people were 
warming their hands before going up to their 
dormitories; on the other side of the room Fred and 
George Weasley were pinning something up on the 
notice board. Harry waved good night to them and 
headed straight for the door to the boys’ dormitories; 
he was not in much of a mood for talking at the 
moment. Neville followed him. 

Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan had reached the 
dormitory first and were in the process of covering the 
walls beside their beds with posters and photographs. 
They had been talking as Harry pushed open the door 
but stopped abruptly the moment they saw him. 

Harry wondered whether they had been talking about 
him, then whether he was being paranoid. 

“Hi,” he said, moving across to his own trunk and 
opening it. 

“Hey, Harry,” said Dean, who was putting on a pair of 
pajamas in the West Ham colors. “Good holiday?” 

“Not bad,” muttered Harry, as a true account of his 
holiday would have taken most of the night to relate 
and he could not face it. “You?” 

“Yeah, it was okay,” chuckled Dean. “Better than 
Seamus’s anyway, he was just telling me.” 

“Why, what happened, Seamus?” Neville asked as he 
placed his Mimbulus mimbletonia tenderly on his 
bedside cabinet. 

Page | 275Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Seamus did not answer immediately; he was making 
rather a meal of ensuring that his poster of the 
Kenmare Kestrels Quidditch team was quite straight. 
Then he said, with his back still turned to Harry, “Me 
mam didn’t want me to come back.” 

“What?” said Harry, pausing in the act of pulling off 
his robes. 

“She didn’t want me to come back to Hogwarts.” 

Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his 
own pajamas out of his trunk, still not looking at 
Harry. 

“But — why?” said Harry, astonished. He knew that 
Seamus’s mother was a witch and could not 
understand, therefore, why she should have come 
over so Dursley-ish. 

Seamus did not answer until he had finished 
buttoning his pajamas. 

“Well,” he said in a measured voice, “I suppose ... 
because of you.” 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry quickly. His heart was 
beating rather fast. He felt vaguely as though 
something was closing in on him. 

“Well,” said Seamus again, still avoiding Harry’s eyes, 
“she ... er ... well, it’s not just you, it’s Dumbledore 
too ...” 

“She believes the Daily Prophet?” said Harry. “She 
thinks I’m a liar and Dumbledore ’s an old fool?” 

Seamus looked up at him. “Yeah, something like 
that.” 

Page | 276Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry said nothing. He threw his wand down onto his 
bedside table, pulled off his robes, stuffed them 
angrily into his trunk, and pulled on his pajamas. He 
was sick of it; sick of being the person who was stared 
at and talked about all the time. If any of them knew, 
if any of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to 
be the one all these things had happened to ... Mrs. 
Finnigan had no idea, the stupid woman, he thought 
savagely. 

He got into bed and made to pull the hangings closed 
around him, but before he could do so, Seamus said, 
“Look . . . what did happen that night when . . . you 
know, when . . . with Cedric Diggory and all?” 

Seamus sounded nervous and eager at the same time. 
Dean, who had been bending over his trunk, trying to 
retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and Harry knew he 
was listening hard. 

“What are you asking me for?” Harry retorted. “Just 
read the Daily Prophet like your mother, why don’t 
you? That’ll tell you all you need to know.” 

“Don’t you have a go at my mother,” snapped 
Seamus. 

“I’ll have a go at anyone who calls me a liar,” said 
Harry. 

“Don’t talk to me like that!” 

“I’ll talk to you how I want,” said Harry, his temper 
rising so fast he snatched his wand back from his 
bedside table. “If you’ve got a problem sharing a 
dormitory with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can 
be moved, stop your mummy worrying — ” 

“Leave my mother out of this, Potter!” 

Page | 277Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s going on?” 

Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes 
traveled from Harry, who was kneeling on his bed 
with his wand pointing at Seamus, to Seamus, who 
was standing there with his fists raised. 

“He’s having a go at my mother!” Seamus yelled. 

“What?” said Ron. “Harry wouldn’t do that — we met 
your mother, we liked her...” 

“That’s before she started believing every word the 
stinking Daily Prophet writes about me!” said Harry at 
the top of his voice. 

“Oh,” said Ron, comprehension dawning across his 
freckled face. “Oh ... right.” 

“You know what?” said Seamus heatedly, casting 
Harry a venomous look. “He’s right, I don’t want to 
share a dormitory with him anymore, he’s a 
madman.” 

“That’s out of order, Seamus,” said Ron, whose ears 
were starting to glow red, always a danger sign. 

“Out of order, am I?” shouted Seamus, who in 
contrast with Ron was turning paler. “You believe all 
the rubbish he’s come out with about You-Know-Who, 
do you, you reckon he’s telling the truth?” 

“Yeah, I do!” said Ron angrily. 

“Then you’re mad too,” said Seamus in disgust. 

“Yeah? Well unfortunately for you, pal, I’m also a 
prefect!” said Ron, jabbing himself in the chest with a 



Page | 278Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




finger. “So unless you want detention, watch your 
mouth!” 

Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention 
would be a reasonable price to pay to say what was 
going through his mind; but with a noise of contempt 
he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed, and pulled 
the hangings shut with such violence that they were 
ripped from the bed and fell in a dusty pile to the 
floor. Ron glared at Seamus, then looked at Dean and 
Neville. 

“Anyone else’s parents got a problem with Harry?” he 
said aggressively. 

“My parents are Muggles, mate,” said Dean, 
shrugging. “They don’t know nothing about no deaths 
at Hogwarts, because I’m not stupid enough to tell 
them.” 

“You don’t know my mother, she’ll weasel anything 
out of anyone!” Seamus snapped at him. “Anyway, 
your parents don’t get the Daily Prophet, they don’t 
know our headmaster’s been sacked from the 
Wizengamot and the International Confederation of 
Wizards because he’s losing his marbles — ” 

“My gran says that’s rubbish,” piped up Neville. “She 
says it’s the Daily Prophet that’s going downhill, not 
Dumbledore. She’s canceled our subscription. We 
believe Harry,” he said simply. He climbed into bed 
and pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly 
over them at Seamus. “My gran’s always said You- 
Know-Who would come back one day. She says if 
Dumbledore says he’s back, he’s back.” 

Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Neville. Nobody 
else said anything. Seamus got out his wand, repaired 
the bed hangings, and vanished behind them. Dean 

Page | 279Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




got into bed, rolled over, and fell silent. Neville, who 
appeared to have nothing more to say either, was 
gazing fondly at his moonlit cactus. 

Harry lay back on his pillows while Ron bustled 
around the next bed, putting his things away. He felt 
shaken by the argument with Seamus, whom he had 
always liked very much. How many more people were 
going to suggest that he was lying or unhinged? 

Had Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as 
first the Wizengamot, then the International 
Confederation of Wizards had thrown him from their 
ranks? Was it anger at Harry, perhaps, that had 
stopped Dumbledore getting in touch with him for 
months? The two of them were in this together, after 
all; Dumbledore had believed Harry, announced his 
version of events to the whole school and then to the 
wider Wizarding community. Anyone who thought 
Harry was a liar had to think that Dumbledore was 
too or else that Dumbledore had been hoodwinked... 

They’ll know we’re right in the end, thought Harry 
miserably, as Ron got into bed and extinguished the 
last candle in the dormitory. But he wondered how 
many attacks like Seamus’s he would have to endure 
before that time came. 



Page | 280Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE 

Seamus dressed at top speed next morning and left 
the dormitory before Harry had even put on his socks. 

“Does he think hell turn into a nutter if he stays in a 
room with me too long?” asked Harry loudly, as the 
hem of Seamus’s robes whipped out of sight. 

“Don’t worry about it, Harry,” Dean muttered, 
hoisting his school-bag onto his shoulder. “He’s just 
...” But apparently he was unable to say exactly what 
Seamus was, and after a slightly awkward pause 
followed him out of the room. 

Neville and Ron both gave Harry it’s-his-problem-not- 
yours looks, but Harry was not much consoled. How 
much more of this was he going to have to take? 

“What’s the matter?” asked Hermione five minutes 
later, catching up with Harry and Ron halfway across 
the common room as they all headed toward 



Page | 281Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



breakfast. “You look absolutely — oh for heaven’s 
sake.” 



She was staring at the common room notice board, 
where a large new sign had been put up. 

GALLONS OF GALLEONS! 

Pocket money failing to keep pace with your 
outgoings? 

Like to earn a little extra gold? 



Contact Fred and George Weasley, 

Gryffindor common room, 

for simple, part-time, virtually painless jobs 

(WE REGRET THAT ALL WORK IS UNDERTAKEN AT 
APPLICANT’S OWN RISK) 

“They are the limit,” said Hermione grimly, taking 
down the sign, which Fred and George had pinned up 
over a poster giving the date of the first Hogsmeade 
weekend in October. “We’ll have to talk to them, Ron.” 

Ron looked positively alarmed. 

“Why?” 

“Because we’re prefects!” said Hermione, as they 
climbed out through the portrait hole. “It’s up to us to 
stop this kind of thing!” 

Ron said nothing; Harry could tell from his glum 
expression that the prospect of stopping Fred and 

Page | 282Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




George doing exactly what they liked was not one that 
he found inviting. 

“Anyway, what’s up, Harry?” Hermione continued, as 
they walked down a flight of stairs lined with portraits 
of old witches and wizards, all of whom ignored them, 
being engrossed in their own conversation. “You look 
really angry about something.” 

“Seamus reckons Harry’s lying about You-Know- 
Who,” said Ron succinctly, when Harry did not 
respond. 

Hermione, whom Harry had expected to react angrily 
on his behalf, sighed. 

“Yes, Lavender thinks so too,” she said gloomily. 

“Been having a nice little chat with her about whether 
or not I’m a lying, attention-seeking prat, have you?” 
Harry said loudly. 

“No,” said Hermione calmly, “I told her to keep her big 
fat mouth shut about you, actually. And it would be 
quite nice if you stopped jumping down Ron’s and my 
throats, Harry, because if you haven’t noticed, we’re 
on your side.” 

There was a short pause. 

“Sorry,” said Harry in a low voice. 

“That’s quite all right,” said Hermione with dignity. 
Then she shook her head. “Don’t you remember what 
Dumbledore said at the end-of-term feast last year?” 

Harry and Ron both looked at her blankly, and 
Hermione sighed again. 



Page | 283Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“About You-Know-Who. He said, ‘His gift for spreading 
discord and enmity is very great. We can fight it only 
by showing an equally strong bond of friendship and 
trust — ’ ” 

“How do you remember stuff like that?” asked Ron, 
looking at her in admiration. 

“I listen, Ron,” said Hermione with a touch of 
asperity. 

“So do I, but I still couldn’t tell you exactly what — ” 

“The point,” Hermione pressed on loudly, “is that this 
sort of thing is exactly what Dumbledore was talking 
about. You-Know- Who’s only been back two months, 
and we’ve started fighting among ourselves. And the 
Sorting Hat’s warning was the same — stand 
together, be united — ” 

“And Harry said it last night,” retorted Ron, “if that 
means we’re supposed to get matey with the 
Slytherins, fat chance.” 

“Well, I think it’s a pity we’re not trying for a bit of 
inter-House unity,” said Hermione crossly. 

They had reached the foot of the marble staircase. A 
line of fourth-year Ravenclaws was crossing the 
entrance hall; they caught sight of Harry and hurried 
to form a tighter group, as though frightened he 
might attack stragglers. 

“Yeah, we really ought to be trying to make friends 
with people like that,” said Harry sarcastically. 

They followed the Ravenclaws into the Great Hall, 
looking instinctively at the staff table as they entered. 
Professor Grubbly-Plank was chatting to Professor 

Page | 284Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sinistra, the Astronomy teacher, and Hagrid was once 
again conspicuous only by his absence. The 
enchanted ceiling above them echoed Harry’s mood; it 
was a miserable rain-cloud gray. 

“Dumbledore didn’t even mention how long that 
Grubbly-Plank woman’s staying,” he said, as they 
made their way across to the Gryffindor table. 

“Maybe ...” said Hermione thoughtfully. 

“What?” said both Harry and Ron together. 

“Well ... maybe he didn’t want to draw attention to 
Hagrid not being here.” 

“What d’you mean, draw attention to it?” said Ron, 
half laughing. “How could we not notice?” 

Before Hermione could answer, a tall black girl with 
long, braided hair had marched up to Harry. 

“Hi, Angelina.” 

“Hi,” she said briskly, “good summer?” And without 
waiting for an answer, “Listen, I’ve been made 
Gryffindor Quidditch Captain.” 

“Nice one,” said Harry, grinning at her; he suspected 
Angelina’s pep talks might not be as long-winded as 
Oliver Wood’s had been, which could only be an 
improvement. 

“Yeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Oliver’s left. 
Tryouts are on Friday at five o’clock and I want the 
whole team there, all right? Then we can see how the 
new person’ll fit in.” 



Page | 285Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Okay,” said Harry, and she smiled at him and 
departed. 

“I’d forgotten Wood had left,” said Hermione vaguely, 
sitting down beside Ron and pulling a plate of toast 
toward her. “I suppose that will make quite a 
difference to the team?” 

“I s’pose,” said Harry, taking the bench opposite. “He 
was a good Keeper...” 

“Still, it won’t hurt to have some new blood, will it?” 
said Ron. 

With a whoosh and a clatter, hundreds of owls came 
soaring in through the upper windows. They 
descended all over the Hall, bringing letters and 
packages to their owners and showering the 
breakfasters with droplets of water; it was clearly 
raining hard outside. Hedwig was nowhere to be seen, 
but Harry was hardly surprised; his only 
correspondent was Sirius, and he doubted Sirius 
would have anything new to tell him after only 
twenty-four hours apart. Hermione, however, had to 
move her orange juice aside quickly to make way for a 
large damp barn owl bearing a sodden Daily Prophet 
in its beak. 

“What are you still getting that for?” said Harry 
irritably, thinking of Seamus, as Hermione placed a 
Knut in the leather pouch on the owl’s leg and it took 
off again. “I’m not bothering ... load of rubbish.” 

“It’s best to know what the enemy are saying,” said 
Hermione darkly, and she unfurled the newspaper 
and disappeared behind it, not emerging until Harry 
and Ron had finished eating. 



Page | 286Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Nothing,” she said simply, rolling up the newspaper 
and laying it down by her plate. “Nothing about you 
or Dumbledore or anything.” 

Professor McGonagall was now moving along the table 
handing out schedules. 

“Look at today!” groaned Ron. “History of Magic, 
double Potions, Divination, and double Defense 
Against the Dark Arts ... Binns, Snape, Trelawney, 
and that Umbridge woman all in one day! I wish Fred 
and George ’d hurry up and get those Skiving 
Snackboxes sorted...” 

“Do mine ears deceive me?” said Fred, arriving with 
George and squeezing onto the bench beside Harry. 
“Hogwarts prefects surely don’t wish to skive off 
lessons?” 

“Look what we’ve got today,” said Ron grumpily, 
shoving his schedule under Fred’s nose. “That’s the 
worst Monday I’ve ever seen.” 

“Fair point, little bro,” said Fred, scanning the 
column. “You can have a bit of Nosebleed Nougat 
cheap if you like.” 

“Why’s it cheap?” said Ron suspiciously. 

“Because you’ll keep bleeding till you shrivel up, we 
haven’t got an antidote yet,” said George, helping 
himself to a kipper. 

“Cheers,” said Ron moodily, pocketing his schedule, 
“but I think I’ll take the lessons.” 

“And speaking of your Skiving Snackboxes,” said 
Hermione, eyeing Fred and George beadily, “you can’t 
advertise for testers on the Gryffindor notice board.” 

Page | 287Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Says who?” said George, looking astonished. 

“Says me,” said Hermione. “And Ron.” 

“Leave me out of it,” said Ron hastily. 

Hermione glared at him. Fred and George sniggered. 

“You’ll be singing a different tune soon enough, 
Hermione,” said Fred, thickly buttering a crumpet. 
“You’re starting your fifth year, you’ll be begging us 
for a Snackbox before long.” 

“And why would starting fifth year mean I want a 
Skiving Snackbox?” asked Hermione. 

“Fifth year’s O.W.L. year,” said George. 

“So?” 

“So you’ve got your exams coming up, haven’t you? 
They’ll be keeping your noses so hard to that 
grindstone they’ll be rubbed raw,” said Fred with 
satisfaction. 

“Half our year had minor breakdowns coming up to 
O.W.L.s,” said George happily. “Tears and tantrums 
... Patricia Stimpson kept coming over faint...” 

“Kenneth Towler came out in boils, d’you remember?” 
said Fred reminiscently. 

“That’s ’cause you put Bulbadox Powder in his 
pajamas,” said George. 

“Oh yeah,” said Fred, grinning. “I’d forgotten... Hard 
to keep track sometimes, isn’t it?” 



Page | 288Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Anyway, it’s a nightmare of a year, the fifth,” said 
George. “If you care about exam results anyway. Fred 
and I managed to keep our spirits up somehow.” 

“Yeah ... you got, what was it, three O.W.L.s each?” 
said Ron. 

“Yep,” said Fred unconcernedly. “But we feel our 
futures lie outside the world of academic 
achievement.” 

“We seriously debated whether we were going to 
bother coming back for our seventh year,” said 
George brightly, “now that we’ve got — ” 

He broke off at a warning look from Harry, who knew 
George had been about to mention the Triwizard 
winnings he had given them. 

“ — now that we’ve got our O.W.L.s,” George said 
hastily. “I mean, do we really need N.E.W.T.s? But we 
didn’t think Mum could take us leaving school early, 
not on top of Percy turning out to be the world’s 
biggest prat.” 

“We’re not going to waste our last year here, though,” 
said Fred, looking affectionately around at the Great 
Hall. “We’re going to use it to do a bit of market 
research, find out exactly what the average Hogwarts 
student requires from his joke shop, carefully 
evaluate the results of our research, and then 
produce the products to fit the demand.” 

“But where are you going to get the gold to start a 
joke shop?” asked Hermione skeptically. “You’re going 
to need all the ingredients and materials — and 
premises too, I suppose...” 



Page | 289Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not look at the twins. His face felt hot; he 
deliberately dropped his fork and dived down to 
retrieve it. He heard Fred say overhead, “Ask us no 
questions and well tell you no lies, Hermione. C’mon, 
George, if we get there early we might be able to sell a 
few Extendable Ears before Herbology.” 

Harry emerged from under the table to see Fred and 
George walking away, each carrying a stack of toast. 

“What did that mean?” said Hermione, looking from 
Harry to Ron. “ ‘Ask us no questions ...’ Does that 
mean they’ve already got some gold to start a joke 
shop?” 

“You know, I’ve been wondering about that,” said 
Ron, his brow furrowed. “They bought me a new set of 
dress robes this summer, and I couldn’t understand 
where they got the Galleons...” 

Harry decided it was time to steer the conversation 
out of these dangerous waters. 

“D’you reckon it’s true this year’s going to be really 
tough? Because of the exams?” 

“Oh yeah,” said Ron. “Bound to be, isn’t it? O.W.L.s 
are really important, affect the jobs you can apply for 
and everything. We get career advice too, later this 
year, Bill told me. So you can choose what N.E.W.T.s 
you want to do next year.” 

“D’you know what you want to do after Hogwarts?” 
Harry asked the other two, as they left the Great Hall 
shortly afterward and set off toward their History of 
Magic classroom. 

“Not really,” said Ron slowly. “Except ... well ...” 



Page | 290Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He looked slightly sheepish. 



“What?” Harry urged him. 

“Well, it’d be cool to be an Auror,” said Ron in an 
offhand voice. 

“Yeah, it would,” said Harry fervently. 

“But they’re, like, the elite,” said Ron. “You’ve got to 
be really good. What about you, Hermione?” 

“I don’t know,” said Hermione. “I think I’d really like 
to do something worthwhile.” 

“An Auror’s worthwhile!” said Harry. 

“Yes, it is, but it’s not the only worthwhile thing,” said 
Hermione thoughtfully. “I mean, if I could take 
S.P.E.W. further ...” 

Harry and Ron carefully avoided looking at each 
other. 

History of Magic was by common consent the most 
boring subject ever devised by Wizard-kind. Professor 
Binns, their ghost teacher, had a wheezy, droning 
voice that was almost guaranteed to cause severe 
drowsiness within ten minutes, five in warm weather. 
He never varied the form of their lessons, but lectured 
them without pausing while they took notes, or 
rather, gazed sleepily into space. Harry and Ron had 
so far managed to scrape passes in this subject only 
by copying Hermione’s notes before exams; she alone 
seemed able to resist the soporific power of Binns ’s 
voice. 

Today they suffered through three quarters of an 
hour’s droning on the subject of giant wars. Harry 

Page | 291Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




heard just enough within the first ten minutes to 
appreciate dimly that in another teacher’s hands this 
subject might have been mildly interesting, but then 
his brain disengaged, and he spent the remaining 
thirty-five minutes playing hangman on a corner of 
his parchment with Ron, while Hermione shot them 
filthy looks out of the corner of her eye. 

“How would it be,” she asked them coldly as they left 
the classroom for break (Binns drifting away through 
the blackboard), “if I refused to lend you my notes 
this year?” 

“We’d fail our O.W.L.s,” said Ron. “If you want that on 
