beyond the realms of what we might call ‘usual evil’ 



“So he’s made himself impossible to kill by murdering 
other people?” said Harry. “Why couldn’t he make a 
Sorcerer’s Stone, or steal one, if he was so interested 
in immortality?” 

“Well, we know that he tried to do just that, five years 
ago,” said Dumbledore. “But there are several reasons 
why, I think, a Sorcerer’s Stone would appeal less 
than Horcruxes to Lord Voldemort. 

“While the Elixir of Life does indeed extend life, it 
must be drunk regularly, for all eternity, if the drinker 
is to maintain their immortality. Therefore, Voldemort 
would be entirely dependent on the Elixir, and if it 
ran out, or was contaminated, or if the Stone was 
stolen, he would die just like any other man. 
Voldemort likes to operate alone, remember. I believe 
that he would have found the thought of being 
dependent, even on the Elixir, intolerable. Of course 
he was prepared to drink it if it would take him out of 
the horrible part-life to which he was condemned 
after attacking you, but only to regain a body. 
Thereafter, I am convinced, he intended to continue to 
Page | 564 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




rely on his Horcruxes: He would need nothing more, if 
only he could regain a human form. He was already 
immortal, you see ... or as close to immortal as any 
man can be. 

“But now, Harry, armed with this information, the 
crucial memory you have succeeded in procuring for 
us, we are closer to the secret of finishing Lord 
Voldemort than anyone has ever been before. You 
heard him, Harry: ‘Wouldn’t it be better, make you 
stronger, to have your soul in more pieces ... isn’t 
seven the most powerfully magical number ...’ Isn’t 
seven the most powerfully magical number. Yes, I 
think the idea of a seven-part soul would greatly 
appeal to Lord Voldemort.” 

“He made seven Horcruxes?” said Harry, horror- 
struck, while several of the portraits on the walls 
made similar noises of shock and outrage. “But they 
could be anywhere in the world — hidden — buried or 
invisible — ” 

“I am glad to see you appreciate the magnitude of the 
problem,” said Dumbledore calmly. “But firstly, no, 
Harry, not seven Horcruxes: six. The seventh part of 
his soul, however maimed, resides inside his 
regenerated body. That was the part of him that lived 
a spectral existence for so many years during his 
exile; without that, he has no self at all. That seventh 
piece of soul will be the last that anybody wishing to 
kill Voldemort must attack — the piece that lives in 
his body.” 

“But the six Horcruxes, then,” said Harry, a little 
desperately, “how are we supposed to find them?” 

“You are forgetting . . . you have already destroyed one 
of them. And I have destroyed another.” 



Page | 565 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You have?” said Harry eagerly. 



“Yes indeed,” said Dumbledore, and he raised his 
blackened, burned-looking hand. “The ring, Harry. 
Marvolo’s ring. And a terrible curse there was upon it 
too. Had it not been — forgive me the lack of seemly 
modesty — for my own prodigious skill, and for 
Professor Snape’s timely action when I returned to 
Hogwarts, desperately injured, I might not have lived 
to tell the tale. However, a withered hand does not 
seem an unreasonable exchange for a seventh of 
Voldemort’s soul. The ring is no longer a Horcrux.” 

“But how did you find it?” 

“Well, as you now know, for many years I have made 
it my business to discover as much as I can about 
Voldemort’s past life. I have traveled widely, visiting 
those places he once knew. I stumbled across the ring 
hidden in the ruin of the Gaunts’ house. It seems that 
once Voldemort had succeeded in sealing a piece of 
his soul inside it, he did not want to wear it anymore. 
He hid it, protected by many powerful enchantments, 
in the shack where his ancestors had once lived 
(Morfin having been carted off to Azkaban, of course), 
never guessing that I might one day take the trouble 
to visit the ruin, or that I might be keeping an eye 
open for traces of magical concealment. 

“However, we should not congratulate ourselves too 
heartily. You destroyed the diary and I the ring, but if 
we are right in our theory of a seven-part soul, four 
Horcruxes remain.” 

“And they could be anything?” said Harry. “They 
could be old tin cans or, I dunno, empty potion 
bottles. ...” 



Page | 566 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You are thinking of Portkeys, Harry, which must be 
ordinary objects, easy to overlook. But would Lord 
Voldemort use tin cans or old potion bottles to guard 
his own precious soul? You are forgetting what I have 
showed you. Lord Voldemort liked to collect trophies, 
and he preferred objects with a powerful magical 
history. His pride, his belief in his own superiority, 
his determination to carve for himself a startling place 
in magical history; these things suggest to me that 
Voldemort would have chosen his Horcruxes with 
some care, favoring objects worthy of the honor.” 

“The diary wasn’t that special.” 

“The diary, as you have said yourself, was proof that 
he was the Heir of Slytherin; I am sure that 
Voldemort considered it of stupendous importance.” 

“So, the other Horcruxes?” said Harry. “Do you think 
you know what they are, sir?” 

“I can only guess,” said Dumbledore. “For the reasons 
I have already given, I believe that Lord Voldemort 
would prefer objects that, in themselves, have a 
certain grandeur. I have therefore trawled back 
through Voldemort’s past to see if I can find evidence 
that such artifacts have disappeared around him.” 

“The locket!” said Harry loudly. “Hufflepuff’s cup!” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore, smiling, “I would be prepared 
to bet — perhaps not my other hand — but a couple 
of fingers, that they became Horcruxes three and 
four. The remaining two, assuming again that he 
created a total of six, are more of a problem, but I will 
hazard a guess that, having secured objects from 
Hufflepuff and Slytherin, he set out to track down 
objects owned by Gryffindor or Ravenclaw. Four 
objects from the four founders would, I am sure, have 
Page | 567 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




exerted a powerful pull over Voldemort’s imagination. 

I cannot answer for whether he ever managed to find 
anything of Ravenclaw’s. I am confident, however, 
that the only known relic of Gryffindor remains safe.” 

Dumbledore pointed his blackened fingers to the wall 
behind him, where a ruby-encrusted sword reposed 
within a glass case. 

“Do you think that’s why he really wanted to come 
back to Hogwarts, sir?” said Harry. “To try and find 
something from one of the other founders?” 

“My thoughts precisely,” said Dumbledore. “But 
unfortunately, that does not advance us much 
further, for he was turned away, or so I believe, 
without the chance to search the school. I am forced 
to conclude that he never fulfilled his ambition of 
collecting four founders’ objects. He definitely had two 
— he may have found three — that is the best we can 
do for now.” 

“Even if he got something of Ravenclaw’s or of 
Gryffindor’s, that leaves a sixth Horcrux,” said Harry, 
counting on his fingers. “Unless he got both?” 

“I don’t think so,” said Dumbledore. “I think I know 
what the sixth Horcrux is. I wonder what you will say 
when I confess that I have been curious for a while 
about the behavior of the snake, Nagini?” 

“The snake?” said Harry, startled. “You can use 
animals as Horcruxes?” 

“Well, it is inadvisable to do so,” said Dumbledore, 
“because to confide a part of your soul to something 
that can think and move for itself is obviously a very 
risky business. However, if my calculations are 
correct, Voldemort was still at least one Horcrux short 
Page | 568 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




of his goal of six when he entered your parents’ house 
with the intention of killing you. 



“He seems to have reserved the process of making 
Horcruxes for particularly significant deaths. You 
would certainly have been that. He believed that in 
killing you, he was destroying the danger the 
prophecy had outlined. He believed he was making 
himself invincible. I am sure that he was intending to 
make his final Horcrux with your death. 

“As we know, he failed. After an interval of some 
years, however, he used Nagini to kill an old Muggle 
man, and it might then have occurred to him to turn 
her into his last Horcrux. She underlines the 
Slytherin connection, which enhances Lord 
Voldemort’s mystique; I think he is perhaps as fond of 
her as he can be of anything; he certainly likes to 
keep her close, and he seems to have an unusual 
amount of control over her, even for a Parselmouth.” 

“So,” said Harry, “the diary’s gone, the ring’s gone. 

The cup, the locket, and the snake are still intact, 
and you think there might be a Horcrux that was 
once Ravenclaw’s or Gryffindor’s?” 

“An admirably succinct and accurate summary, yes,” 
said Dumbledore, bowing his head. 

“So . . . are you still looking for them, sir? Is that where 
you’ve been going when you’ve been leaving the 
school?” 

“Correct,” said Dumbledore. “I have been looking for a 
very long time. I think ... perhaps ... I may be close to 
finding another one. There are hopeful signs.” 

“And if you do,” said Harry quickly, “can I come with 
you and help get rid of it?” 

Page | 569 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore looked at Harry very intently for a 
moment before saying, “Yes, I think so.” 

“I can?” said Harry, thoroughly taken aback. 

“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore, smiling slightly. “I think 
you have earned that right.” 

Harry felt his heart lift. It was very good not to hear 
words of caution and protection for once. The 
headmasters and headmistresses around the walls 
seemed less impressed by Dumbledore’s decision; 
Harry saw a few of them shaking their heads and 
Phineas Nigellus actually snorted. 

“Does Voldemort know when a Horcrux is destroyed, 
sir? Can he feel it?” Harry asked, ignoring the 
portraits. 

“A very interesting question, Harry. I believe not. I 
believe that Voldemort is now so immersed in evil, 
and these crucial parts of himself have been detached 
for so long, he does not feel as we do. Perhaps, at the 
point of death, he might be aware of his loss . . . but he 
was not aware, for instance, that the diary had been 
destroyed until he forced the truth out of Lucius 
Malfoy. When Voldemort discovered that the diary 
had been mutilated and robbed of all its powers, I am 
told that his anger was terrible to behold.” 

“But I thought he meant Lucius Malfoy to smuggle it 
into Hogwarts?” 

“Yes, he did, years ago, when he was sure he would 
be able to create more Horcruxes, but still Lucius was 
supposed to wait for Voldemort’s say-so, and he never 
received it, for Voldemort vanished shortly after giving 
him the diary. 



Page | 570 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No doubt he thought that Lucius would not dare do 
anything with the Horcrux other than guard it 
carefully, but he was counting too much upon 
Lucius’s fear of a master who had been gone for years 
and whom Lucius believed dead. Of course, Lucius 
did not know what the diary really was. I understand 
that Voldemort had told him the diary would cause 
the Chamber of Secrets to reopen because it was 
cleverly enchanted. Had Lucius known he held a 
portion of his master’s soul in his hands, he would 
undoubtedly have treated it with more reverence — 
but instead he went ahead and carried out the old 
plan for his own ends: By planting the diary upon 
Arthur Weasley’s daughter, he hoped to discredit 
Arthur and get rid of a highly incriminating magical 
object in one stroke. Ah, poor Lucius ... what with 
Voldemort ’s fury about the fact that he threw away 
the Horcrux for his own gain, and the fiasco at the 
Ministry last year, I would not be surprised if he is 
not secretly glad to be safe in Azkaban at the 
moment.” 

Harry sat in thought for a moment, then asked, “So if 
all of his Horcruxes are destroyed, Voldemort could be 
killed?” 

“Yes, I think so,” said Dumbledore. “Without his 
Horcruxes, Voldemort will be a mortal man with a 
maimed and diminished soul. Never forget, though, 
that while his soul may be damaged beyond repair, 
his brain and his magical powers remain intact. It will 
take uncommon skill and power to kill a wizard like 
Voldemort even without his Horcruxes.” 

“But I haven’t got uncommon skill and power,” said 
Harry, before he could stop himself. 

“Yes, you have,” said Dumbledore firmly. “You have a 
power that Voldemort has never had. You can — ” 

Page | 571 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I know!” said Harry impatiently. “I can love!” It was 
only with difficulty that he stopped himself adding, 
“Big deal!” 

“Yes, Harry, you can love,” said Dumbledore, who 
looked as though he knew perfectly well what Harry 
had just refrained from saying. “Which, given 
everything that has happened to you, is a great and 
remarkable thing. You are still too young to 
understand how unusual you are, Harry.” 

“So, when the prophecy says that I’ll have ‘power the 
Dark Lord knows not,’ it just means — love?” asked 
Harry, feeling a little let down. 

“Yes — just love,” said Dumbledore. “But Harry, never 
forget that what the prophecy says is only significant 
because Voldemort made it so. I told you this at the 
end of last year. Voldemort singled you out as the 
person who would be most dangerous to him — and 
in doing so, he made you the person who would be 
most dangerous to him!” 

“But it comes to the same — ” 

“No, it doesn’t!” said Dumbledore, sounding impatient 
now. Pointing at Harry with his black, withered hand, 
he said, “You are setting too much store by the 
prophecy!” 

“But,” spluttered Harry, “but you said the prophecy 
means — ” 

“If Voldemort had never heard of the prophecy, would 
it have been fulfilled? Would it have meant anything? 
Of course not! Do you think every prophecy in the 
Hall of Prophecy has been fulfilled?” 



Page | 572 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But,” said Harry, bewildered, “but last year, you said 
one of us would have to kill the other — ” 

“Harry, Harry, only because Voldemort made a grave 
error, and acted on Professor Trelawney’s words! If 
Voldemort had never murdered your father, would he 
have imparted in you a furious desire for revenge? Of 
course not! If he had not forced your mother to die for 
you, would he have given you a magical protection he 
could not penetrate? Of course not, Harry! Don’t you 
see? Voldemort himself created his worst enemy, just 
as tyrants everywhere do! Have you any idea how 
much tyrants fear the people they oppress? All of 
them realize that, one day, amongst their many 
victims, there is sure to be one who rises against 
them and strikes back! Voldemort is no different! 
Always he was on the lookout for the one who would 
challenge him. He heard the prophecy and he leapt 
into action, with the result that he not only 
handpicked the man most likely to finish him, he 
handed him uniquely deadly weapons!” 

“But — ” 

“It is essential that you understand this!” said 
Dumbledore, standing up and striding about the 
room, his glittering robes swooshing in his wake; 
Harry had never seen him so agitated. “By attempting 
to kill you, Voldemort himself singled out the 
remarkable person who sits here in front of me, and 
gave him the tools for the job! It is Voldemort ’s fault 
that you were able to see into his thoughts, his 
ambitions, that you even understand the snakelike 
language in which he gives orders, and yet, Harry, 
despite your privileged insight into Voldemort’s world 
(which, incidentally, is a gift any Death Eater would 
kill to have), you have never been seduced by the 
Dark Arts, never, even for a second, shown the 



Page | 573 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




slightest desire to become one of Voldemort’s 
followers!” 

“Of course I haven’t!” said Harry indignantly. “He 
killed my mum and dad!” 

“You are protected, in short, by your ability to love!” 
said Dumbledore loudly. “The only protection that can 
possibly work against the lure of power like 
Voldemort’s! In spite of all the temptation you have 
endured, all the suffering, you remain pure of heart, 
just as pure as you were at the age of eleven, when 
you stared into a mirror that reflected your heart’s 
desire, and it showed you only the way to thwart Lord 
Voldemort, and not immortality or riches. Harry, have 
you any idea how few wizards could have seen what 
you saw in that mirror? Voldemort should have 
known then what he was dealing with, but he did not! 

“But he knows it now. You have flitted into Lord 
Voldemort’s mind without damage to yourself, but he 
cannot possess you without enduring mortal agony, 
as he discovered in the Ministry. I do not think he 
understands why, Harry, but then, he was in such a 
hurry to mutilate his own soul, he never paused to 
understand the incomparable power of a soul that is 
untarnished and whole.” 

“But, sir,” said Harry, making valiant efforts not to 
sound argumentative, “it all comes to the same thing, 
doesn’t it? I’ve got to try and kill him, or — ” 

“Got to?” said Dumbledore. “Of course you’ve got to! 
But not because of the prophecy! Because you, 
yourself, will never rest until you’ve tried! We both 
know it! Imagine, please, just for a moment, that you 
had never heard that prophecy! How would you feel 
about Voldemort now? Think!” 



Page | 574 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry watched Dumbledore striding up and down in 
front of him, and thought. He thought of his mother, 
his father, and Sirius. He thought of Cedric Diggory. 
He thought of all the terrible deeds he knew Lord 
Voldemort had done. A flame seemed to leap inside 
his chest, searing his throat. 

“I’d want him finished,” said Harry quietly. “And I’d 
want to do it.” 

“Of course you would!” cried Dumbledore. “You see, 
the prophecy does not mean you have to do anything! 
But the prophecy caused Lord Voldemort to mark you 
as his equal. ... In other words, you are free to choose 
your way, quite free to turn your back on the 
prophecy! But Voldemort continues to set store by the 
prophecy. He will continue to hunt you . . . which 
makes it certain, really, that — ” 

“That one of us is going to end up killing the other,” 
said Harry. “Yes.” 

But he understood at last what Dumbledore had been 
trying to tell him. It was, he thought, the difference 
between being dragged into the arena to face a battle 
to the death and walking into the arena with your 
head held high. Some people, perhaps, would say that 
there was little to choose between the two ways, but 
Dumbledore knew — and so do I, thought Harry, with 
a rush of fierce pride, and so did my parents — that 
there was all the difference in the world. 



Page | 575 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






SECTUMSEMPRA 

Exhausted but delighted with his night’s work, Harry 
told Ron and Hermione everything that had happened 
during next morning’s Charms lesson (having first 
cast the Muffliato spell upon those nearest them). 
They were both satisfyingly impressed by the way he 
had wheedled the memory out of Slughorn and 
positively awed when he told them about Voldemort’s 
Horcruxes and Dumbledore’s promise to take Harry 
along, should he find another one. 

“Wow,” said Ron, when Harry had finally finished 
telling them everything; Ron was waving his wand 
very vaguely in the direction of the ceiling without 
paying the slightest bit of attention to what he was 
doing. “Wow. You’re actually going to go with 
Dumbledore ... and try and destroy ... wow.” 

“Ron, you’re making it snow,” said Hermione 
patiently, grabbing his wrist and redirecting his wand 
away from the ceiling from which, sure enough, large 
white flakes had started to fall. Lavender Brown, 



Page | 576 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



Harry noticed, glared at Hermione from a neighboring 
table through very red eyes, and Hermione 
immediately let go of Ron’s arm. 

“Oh yeah,” said Ron, looking down at his shoulders in 
vague surprise. “Sorry ... looks like we’ve all got 
horrible dandruff now. ...” 

He brushed some of the fake snow off Hermione ’s 
shoulder. Lavender burst into tears. Ron looked 
immensely guilty and turned his back on her. 

“We split up,” he told Harry out of the corner of his 
mouth. “Last night. When she saw me coming out of 
the dormitory with Hermione. Obviously she couldn’t 
see you, so she thought it had just been the two of 
us.” 



“Ah,” said Harry. “Well — you don’t mind it’s over, do 
you?” 

“No,” Ron admitted. “It was pretty bad while she was 
yelling, but at least I didn’t have to finish it.” 

“Coward,” said Hermione, though she looked amused. 
“Well, it was a bad night for romance all around. 
Ginny and Dean split up too, Harry.” 

Harry thought there was a rather knowing look in her 
eye as she told him that, but she could not possibly 
know that his insides were suddenly dancing the 
conga. Keeping his face as immobile and his voice as 
indifferent as he could, he asked, “How come?” 

“Oh, something really silly . . . She said he was always 
trying to help her through the portrait hole, like she 
couldn’t climb in herself ... but they’ve been a bit 
rocky for ages.” 



Page | 577 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry glanced over at Dean on the other side of the 
classroom. He certainly looked unhappy. 

“Of course, this puts you in a bit of a dilemma, 
doesn’t it?” said Hermione. 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry quickly. 

“The Quidditch team,” said Hermione. “If Ginny and 
Dean aren’t speaking ...” 

“Oh — oh yeah,” said Harry. 

“Flitwick,” said Ron in a warning tone. The tiny little 
Charms master was bobbing his way toward them, 
and Hermione was the only one who had managed to 
turn vinegar into wine; her glass flask was full of deep 
crimson liquid, whereas the contents of Harry’s and 
Ron’s were still murky brown. 

“Now, now, boys,” squeaked Professor Flitwick 
reproachfully. “A little less talk, a little more action ... 
Let me see you try. ...” 

Together they raised their wands, concentrating with 
all their might, and pointed them at their flasks. 
Harry’s vinegar turned to ice; Ron’s flask exploded. 

“Yes ... for homework,” said Professor Flitwick, 
reemerging from under the table and pulling shards 
of glass out of the top of his hat, “practice.” 

They had one of their rare joint free periods after 
Charms and walked back to the common room 
together. Ron seemed to be positively lighthearted 
about the end of his relationship with Lavender, and 
Hermione seemed cheery too, though when asked 
what she was grinning about she simply said, “It’s a 



Page | 578 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




nice day.” Neither of them seemed to have noticed 
that a fierce battle was raging inside Harry’s brain: 

She’s Ron’s sister. 

But she’s ditched Dean! 

She’s still Ron’s sister. 

I’m his best mate! 

That’ll make it worse. 

If I talked to him first — 

He’d hit you. 

What if I don’t care? 

He’s your best mate\ 

Harry barely noticed that they were climbing through 
the portrait hole into the sunny common room, and 
only vaguely registered the small group of seventh 
years clustered together there, until Hermione cried, 
“Katie! You’re back! Are you okay?” 

Harry stared: It was indeed Katie Bell, looking 
completely healthy and surrounded by her jubilant 
friends. 

“I’m really well!” she said happily. “They let me out of 
St. Mungo’s on Monday, I had a couple of days at 
home with Mum and Dad and then came back here 
this morning. Leanne was just telling me about 
McLaggen and the last match, Harry. ...” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “well, now you’re back and Ron’s 
fit, we’ll have a decent chance of thrashing 

Page | 579 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ravenclaw, which means we could still be in the 
running for the Cup. Listen, Katie ...” 

He had to put the question to her at once; his 
curiosity even drove Ginny temporarily from his 
brain. He dropped his voice as Katie’s friends started 
gathering up their things; apparently they were late 
for Transfiguration. 

"... that necklace ... can you remember who gave it to 
you now?” 

“No,” said Katie, shaking her head ruefully. 
“Everyone’s been asking me, but I haven’t got a clue. 
The last thing I remember was walking into the ladies’ 
in the Three Broomsticks.” 

“You definitely went into the bathroom, then?” said 
Hermione. 

“Well, I know I pushed open the door,” said Katie, “so 
I suppose whoever Imperiused me was standing just 
behind it. After that, my memory’s a blank until 
about two weeks ago in St. Mungo’s. Listen, I’d better 
go, I wouldn’t put it past McGonagall to give me lines 
even if it is my first day back. ...” 

She caught up her bag and books and hurried after 
her friends, leaving Harry, Ron, and Hermione to sit 
down at a window table and ponder what she had told 
them. 

“So it must have been a girl or a woman who gave 
Katie the necklace,” said Hermione, “to be in the 
ladies’ bathroom.” 

“Or someone who looked like a girl or a woman,” said 
Harry. “Don’t forget, there was a cauldron full of 



Page | 580 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Polyjuice Potion at Hogwarts. We know some of it got 
stolen. ...” 

In his mind’s eye, he watched a parade of Crabbes 
and Goyles prance past, all transformed into girls. 

“I think I’m going to take another swig of Felix,” said 
Harry, “and have a go at the Room of Requirement 
again.” 

“That would be a complete waste of potion,” said 
Hermione flatly, putting down the copy of Spellman’s 
Syllabary she had just taken out of her bag. “Luck 
can only get you so far, Harry. The situation with 
Slughorn was different; you always had the ability to 
persuade him, you just needed to tweak the 
circumstances a bit. Luck isn’t enough to get you 
through a powerful enchantment, though. Don’t go 
wasting the rest of that potion! You’ll need all the luck 
you can get if Dumbledore takes you along with him 
...” She dropped her voice to a whisper. 

“Couldn’t we make some more?” Ron asked Harry, 
ignoring Hermione. “It’d be great to have a stock of it. 
... Have a look in the book ...” 

Harry pulled his copy of Advanced Potion-Making out 
of his bag and looked up Felix Felicis. 

“Blimey, it’s seriously complicated,” he said, running 
an eye down the list of ingredients. “And it takes six 
months ... You’ve got to let it stew. ...” 

“Typical,” said Ron. 

Harry was about to put his book away again when he 
noticed the corner of a page folded down; turning to 
it, he saw the Sectumsempra spell, captioned “For 
Enemies,” that he had marked a few weeks 

Page | 581 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




previously. He had still not found out what it did, 
mainly because he did not want to test it around 
Hermione, but he was considering trying it out on 
McLaggen next time he came up behind him 
unawares. 

The only person who was not particularly pleased to 
see Katie Bell back at school was Dean Thomas, 
because he would no longer be required to fill her 
place as Chaser. He took the blow stoically enough 
when Harry told him, merely grunting and shrugging, 
but Harry had the distinct feeling as he walked away 
that Dean and Seamus were muttering mutinously 
behind his back. 

The following fortnight saw the best Quidditch 
practices Harry had known as Captain. His team was 
so pleased to be rid of McLaggen, so glad to have 
Katie back at last, that they were flying extremely 
well. 

Ginny did not seem at all upset about the breakup 
with Dean; on the contrary, she was the life and soul 
of the team. Her imitations of Ron anxiously bobbing 
up and down in front of the goal posts as the Quaffle 
sped toward him, or of Harry bellowing orders at 
McLaggen before being knocked out cold, kept them 
all highly amused. Harry, laughing with the others, 
was glad to have an innocent reason to look at Ginny; 
he had received several more Bludger injuries during 
practice because he had not been keeping his eyes on 
the Snitch. 

The battle still raged inside his head: Ginny or Ron? 
Sometimes he thought that the post-Lavender Ron 
might not mind too much if he asked Ginny out, but 
then he remembered Ron’s expression when he had 
seen her kissing Dean, and was sure that Ron would 



Page | 582 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




consider it base treachery if Harry so much as held 
her hand. ... 

Yet Harry could not help himself talking to Ginny, 
laughing with her, walking back from practice with 
her; however much his conscience ached, he found 
himself wondering how best to get her on her own. It 
would have been ideal if Slughorn had given another 
of his little parties, for Ron would not be around — 
but unfortunately, Slughorn seemed to have given 
them up. Once or twice Harry considered asking for 
Hermione’s help, but he did not think he could stand 
seeing the smug look on her face; he thought he 
caught it sometimes when Hermione spotted him 
staring at Ginny or laughing at her jokes. And to 
complicate matters, he had the nagging worry that if 
he didn’t do it, somebody else was sure to ask Ginny 
out soon: He and Ron were at least agreed on the fact 
that she was too popular for her own good. 

All in all, the temptation to take another gulp of Felix 
Felicis was becoming stronger by the day, for surely 
this was a case for, as Hermione put it, “tweaking the 
circumstances”? The balmy days slid gently through 
May, and Ron seemed to be there at Harry’s shoulder 
every time he saw Ginny. Harry found himself longing 
for a stroke of luck that would somehow cause Ron to 
realize that nothing would make him happier than his 
best friend and his sister falling for each other and to 
leave them alone together for longer than a few 
seconds. There seemed no chance of either while the 
final Quidditch game of the season was looming; Ron 
wanted to talk tactics with Harry all the time and had 
little thought for anything else. 

Ron was not unique in this respect; interest in the 
Gryffindor-Ravenclaw game was running extremely 
high throughout the school, for the match would 
decide the Championship, which was still wide open. 

Page | 583 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




If Gryffindor beat Ravenclaw by a margin of three 
hundred points (a tall order, and yet Harry had never 
known his team to fly better) then they would win the 
Championship. If they won by less than three 
hundred points, they would come second to 
Ravenclaw; if they lost by a hundred points they 
would be third behind Hufflepuff and if they lost by 
more than a hundred, they would be in fourth place 
and nobody, Harry thought, would ever, ever let him 
forget that it had been he who had captained 
Gryffindor to their first bottom-of-the-table defeat in 
two centuries. 

The run-up to this crucial match had all the usual 
features: members of rival Houses attempting to 
intimidate opposing teams in the corridors; 
unpleasant chants about individual players being 
rehearsed loudly as they passed; the team members 
themselves either swaggering around enjoying all the 
attention or else dashing into bathrooms between 
classes to throw up. Somehow, the game had become 
inextricably linked in Harry’s mind with success or 
failure in his plans for Ginny. He could not help 
feeling that if they won by more than three hundred 
points, the scenes of euphoria and a nice loud after- 
match party might be just as good as a hearty swig of 
Felix Felicis. 

In the midst of all his preoccupations, Harry had not 
forgotten his other ambition: finding out what Malfoy 
was up to in the Room of Requirement. He was still 
checking the Marauder’s Map, and as he was unable 
to locate Malfoy on it, deduced that Malfoy was still 
spending plenty of time within the room. Although 
Harry was losing hope that he would ever succeed in 
getting inside the Room of Requirement, he attempted 
it whenever he was in the vicinity, but no matter how 
he reworded his request, the wall remained firmly 
doorless. 

Page | 584 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




A few days before the match against Ravenclaw, 

Harry found himself walking down to dinner alone 
from the common room, Ron having rushed off into a 
nearby bathroom to throw up yet again, and 
Hermione having dashed off to see Professor Vector 
about a mistake she thought she might have made in 
her last Arithmancy essay. More out of habit than 
anything, Harry made his usual detour along the 
seventh-floor corridor, checking the Marauder’s Map 
as he went. For a moment he could not find Malfoy 
anywhere and assumed he must indeed be inside the 
Room of Requirement again, but then he saw Malfoy’s 
tiny, labeled dot standing in a boys’ bathroom on the 
floor below, accompanied, not by Crabbe or Goyle, 
but by Moaning Myrtle. 

Harry only stopped staring at this unlikely coupling 
when he walked right into a suit of armor. The loud 
crash brought him out of his reverie; hurrying from 
the scene lest Filch turn up, he dashed down the 
marble staircase and along the passageway below. 
Outside the bathroom, he pressed his ear against the 
door. He could not hear anything. He very quietly 
pushed the door open. 

Draco Malfoy was standing with his back to the door, 
his hands clutching either side of the sink, his white- 
blond head bowed. 

“Don’t,” crooned Moaning Myrtle’s voice from one of 
the cubicles. “Don’t ... tell me what’s wrong ... I can 
help you. ...” 

“No one can help me,” said Malfoy. His whole body 
was shaking. “I can’t do it. ... I can’t. ... It won’t work 
... and unless I do it soon ... he says he’ll kill me. ...” 

And Harry realized, with a shock so huge it seemed to 
root him to the spot, that Malfoy was crying — 

Page | 585 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




actually crying — tears streaming down his pale face 
into the grimy basin. Malfoy gasped and gulped and 
then, with a great shudder, looked up into the 
cracked mirror and saw Harry staring at him over his 
shoulder. 

Malfoy wheeled around, drawing his wand. 
Instinctively, Harry pulled out his own. Malfoy’s hex 
missed Harry by inches, shattering the lamp on the 
wall beside him; Harry threw himself sideways, 
thought Levicorpus\ and flicked his wand, but Malfoy 
blocked the jinx and raised his wand for another — 

“No! No! Stop it!” squealed Moaning Myrtle, her voice 
echoing loudly around the tiled room. “Stop! STOP!” 

There was a loud bang and the bin behind Harry 
exploded; Harry attempted a Leg-Locker Curse that 
backfired off the wall behind Malfoy’s ear and 
smashed the cistern beneath Moaning Myrtle, who 
screamed loudly; water poured everywhere and Harry 
slipped as Malfoy, his face contorted, cried, “Cruci — ” 

“ SECTUMSEMPRAl” bellowed Harry from the floor, 
waving his wand wildly. 

Blood spurted from Malfoy’s face and chest as though 
