indifferently. 

Page | 336 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re okay, though?” asked Ted quickly. “I mean, 
the Weasleys don’t need any more of their kids 
injured, do they?” 

“They suffered no serious injury, as far as I am 
aware,” said Griphook. 

“Lucky for them,” said Ted. “With Snape’s track 
record I suppose we should just be glad they’re still 
alive.” 

“You believe that story, then, do you, Ted?” asked 
Dirk. “You believe Snape killed Dumbledore?” 

“ ’Course I do,” said Ted. “You’re not going to sit there 
and tell me you think Potter had anything to do with 
it?” 



“Hard to know what to believe these days,” muttered 
Dirk. 

“I know Harry Potter,” said Dean. “And I reckon he’s 
the real thing — the Chosen One, or whatever you 
want to call it.” 

“Yeah, there’s a lot would like to believe he’s that, 
son,” said Dirk, “me included. But where is he? Run 
for it, by the looks of things. You’d think, if he knew 
anything we don’t, or had anything special going for 
him, he’d be out there now fighting, rallying 
resistance, instead of hiding. And you know, the 
Prophet made a pretty good case against him — ” 

“The Prophet?” scoffed Ted. “You deserve to be lied to 
if you’re still reading that muck, Dirk. You want the 
facts, try the Quibbler.” 

There was a sudden explosion of choking and 
retching, plus a good deal of thumping; by the sound 

Page | 337 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




of it, Dirk had swallowed a fish bone. At last he 
spluttered, “The Quibbler? That lunatic rag of Xeno 
Lovegood’s?” 

“It’s not so lunatic these days,” said Ted. “You want to 
give it a look. Xeno is printing all the stuff the 
Prophet’s ignoring, not a single mention of Crumple- 
Horned Snorkacks in the last issue. How long they’ll 
let him get away with it, mind, I don’t know. But Xeno 
says, front page of every issue, that any wizard who’s 
against You-Know-Who ought to make helping Harry 
Potter their number-one priority.” 

“Hard to help a boy who’s vanished off the face of the 
earth,” said Dirk. 

“Listen, the fact that they haven’t caught him yet’s 
one hell of an achievement,” said Ted. “I’d take tips 
from him gladly; it’s what we’re trying to do, stay free, 
isn’t it?” 

“Yeah, well, you’ve got a point there,” said Dirk 
heavily. “With the whole of the Ministry and all their 
informers looking for him I’d have expected him to be 
caught by now. Mind, who’s to say they haven’t 
already caught and killed him without publicizing it?” 

“Ah, don’t say that, Dirk,” murmured Ted. 

There was a long pause filled with more clattering of 
knives and forks. When they spoke again it was to 
discuss whether they ought to sleep on the bank or 
retreat back up the wooded slope. Deciding the trees 
would give better cover, they extinguished their fire, 
then clambered back up the incline, their voices 
fading away. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione reeled in the Extendable 
Ears. Harry, who had found the need to remain silent 

Page | 338 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




increasingly difficult the longer they eavesdropped, 
now found himself unable to say more than, “Ginny 
— the sword — ” 

“I know!” said Hermione. 

She lunged for the tiny beaded bag, this time sinking 
her arm in it right up to the armpit. 

“Here ... we ... are ...” she said between gritted teeth, 
and she pulled at something that was evidently in the 
depths of the bag. Slowly the edge of an ornate 
picture frame came into sight. Harry hurried to help 
her. As they lifted the empty portrait of Phineas 
Nigellus free of Hermione’s bag, she kept her wand 
pointing at it, ready to cast a spell at any moment. 

“If somebody swapped the real sword for the fake 
while it was in Dumbledore’s office,” she panted, as 
they propped the painting against the side of the tent, 
“Phineas Nigellus would have seen it happen, he 
hangs right beside the case!” 

“Unless he was asleep,” said Harry, but he still held 
his breath as Hermione knelt down in front of the 
empty canvas, her wand directed at its center, cleared 
her throat, then said: 

“Er — Phineas? Phineas Nigellus?” 

Nothing happened. 

“Phineas Nigellus?” said Hermione again. “Professor 
Black? Please could we talk to you? Please?” 

“ ‘Please’ always helps,” said a cold, snide voice, and 
Phineas Nigellus slid into his portrait. At once, 
Hermione cried: 



Page | 339 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Obscuro\” 



A black blindfold appeared over Phineas Nigellus’s 
clever, dark eyes, causing him to bump into the frame 
and shriek with pain. 

“What — how dare — what are you — ?” 

“I’m very sorry, Professor Black,” said Hermione, “but 
it’s a necessary precaution!” 

“Remove this foul addition at once! Remove it, I say! 
You are ruining a great work of art! Where am I? 

What is going on?” 

“Never mind where we are,” said Harry, and Phineas 
Nigellus froze, abandoning his attempts to peel off the 
painted blindfold. 

“Can that possibly be the voice of the elusive Mr. 
Potter?” 

“Maybe,” said Harry, knowing that this would keep 
Phineas Nigellus’s interest. “We’ve got a couple of 
questions to ask you — about the sword of 
Gryffindor.” 

“Ah,” said Phineas Nigellus, now turning his head this 
way and that in an effort to catch sight of Harry, “yes. 
That silly girl acted most unwisely there — ” 

“Shut up about my sister,” said Ron roughly. Phineas 
Nigellus raised supercilious eyebrows. 

“Who else is here?” he asked, turning his head from 
side to side. “Your tone displeases me! The girl and 
her friends were foolhardy in the extreme. Thieving 
from the headmaster!” 



Page | 340 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“They weren’t thieving,” said Harry. “That sword isn’t 
Snape’s.” 

“It belongs to Professor Snape’s school,” said Phineas 
Nigellus. “Exactly what claim did the Weasley girl 
have upon it? She deserved her punishment, as did 
the idiot Longbottom and the Lovegood oddity!” 

“Neville is not an idiot and Luna is not an oddity!” 
said Hermione. 

“Where am I?” repeated Phineas Nigellus, starting to 
wrestle with the blindfold again. “Where have you 
brought me? Why have you removed me from the 
house of my forebears?” 

“Never mind that! How did Snape punish Ginny, 
Neville, and Luna?” asked Harry urgently. 

“Professor Snape sent them into the Forbidden Forest, 
to do some work for the oaf, Hagrid.” 

“Hagrid’s not an oaf!” said Hermione shrilly. 

“And Snape might’ve thought that was a 
punishment,” said Harry, “but Ginny, Neville, and 
Luna probably had a good laugh with Hagrid. The 
Forbidden Forest ... they’ve faced plenty worse than 
the Forbidden Forest, big deal!” 

He felt relieved; he had been imagining horrors, the 
Cruciatus Curse at the very least. 

“What we really wanted to know, Professor Black, is 
whether anyone else has, um, taken out the sword at 
all? Maybe it’s been taken away for cleaning or — or 
something?” 



Page | 341 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Phineas Nigellus paused again in his struggles to free 
his eyes and sniggered. 

“ Muggle-borns,” he said. “Goblin-made armor does not 
require cleaning, simple girl. Goblins’ silver repels 
mundane dirt, imbibing only that which strengthens 
it.” 

“Don’t call Hermione simple,” said Harry. 

“I grow weary of contradiction,” said Phineas Nigellus. 
“Perhaps it is time for me to return to the 
headmaster’s office?” 

Still blindfolded, he began groping the side of his 
frame, trying to feel his way out of his picture and 
back into the one at Hogwarts. Harry had a sudden 
inspiration. 

“Dumbledore! Can’t you bring us Dumbledore?” 

“I beg your pardon?” asked Phineas Nigellus. 

“Professor Dumbledore’s portrait — couldn’t you bring 
him along, here, into yours?” 

Phineas Nigellus turned his face in the direction of 
Harry’s voice. 

“Evidently it is not only Muggle-borns who are 
ignorant, Potter. The portraits of Hogwarts may 
commune with each other, but they cannot travel 
outside the castle except to visit a painting of 
themselves hanging elsewhere. Dumbledore cannot 
come here with me, and after the treatment I have 
received at your hands, I can assure you that I shall 
not be making a return visit!” 



Page | 342 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Slightly crestfallen, Harry watched Phineas redouble 
his attempts to leave his frame. 

“Professor Black,” said Hermione, “couldn’t you just 
tell us, please, when was the last time the sword was 
taken out of its case? Before Ginny took it out, I 
mean?” 

Phineas snorted impatiently. 

“I believe that the last time I saw the sword of 
Gryffindor leave its case was when Professor 
Dumbledore used it to break open a ring.” 

Hermione whipped around to look at Harry. Neither of 
them dared say more in front of Phineas Nigellus, who 
had at last managed to locate the exit. 

“Well, good night to you,” he said a little waspishly, 
and he began to move out of sight again. Only the 
edge of his hat brim remained in view when Harry 
gave a sudden shout. 

“Wait! Have you told Snape you saw this?” 

Phineas Nigellus stuck his blindfolded head back into 
the picture. 

“Professor Snape has more important things on his 
mind than the many eccentricities of Albus 
Dumbledore. Good-bye, Potter!” 

And with that, he vanished completely, leaving behind 
him nothing but his murky backdrop. 

“Harry!” Hermione cried. 

“I know!” Harry shouted. Unable to contain himself, 
he punched the air; it was more than he had dared to 

Page | 343 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




hope for. He strode up and down the tent, feeling that 
he could have run a mile; he did not even feel hungry 
anymore. Hermione was squashing Phineas Nigellus’s 
portrait back into the beaded bag; when she had 
fastened the clasp she threw the bag aside and raised 
a shining face to Harry. 

“The sword can destroy Horcruxes! Goblin-made 
blades imbibe only that which strengthen them — 
Harry, that sword’s impregnated with basilisk 
venom!” 

“And Dumbledore didn’t give it to me because he still 
needed it, he wanted to use it on the locket — ” 

“ — and he must have realized they wouldn’t let you 
have it if he put it in his will — ” 

“ — so he made a copy — ” 

“ — and put a fake in the glass case — ” 

“ — and he left the real one — where?” 

They gazed at each other; Harry felt that the answer 
was dangling invisibly in the air above them, 
tantalizingly close. Why hadn’t Dumbledore told him? 
Or had he, in fact, told Harry, but Harry had not 
realized it at the time? 

“Think!” whispered Hermione. “Think! Where would 
he have left it?” 

“Not at Hogwarts,” said Harry, resuming his pacing. 

“Somewhere in Hogsmeade?” suggested Hermione. 

“The Shrieking Shack?” said Harry. “Nobody ever goes 
in there.” 

Page | 344 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But Snape knows how to get in, wouldn’t that be a 
bit risky?” 

“Dumbledore trusted Snape,” Harry reminded her. 

“Not enough to tell him that he had swapped the 
swords,” said Hermione. 

“Yeah, you’re right!” said Harry, and he felt even more 
cheered at the thought that Dumbledore had had 
some reservations, however faint, about Snape ’s 
trustworthiness. “So, would he have hidden the sword 
well away from Hogsmeade, then? What d’you reckon, 
Ron? Ron?” 

Harry looked around. For one bewildered moment he 
thought that Ron had left the tent, then realized that 
Ron was lying in the shadow of a lower bunk, looking 
stony. 

“Oh, remembered me, have you?” he said. 

“What?” 

Ron snorted as he stared up at the underside of the 
upper bunk. 

“You two carry on. Don’t let me spoil your fun.” 

Perplexed, Harry looked to Hermione for help, but she 
shook her head, apparently as nonplussed as he was. 

“What’s the problem?” asked Harry. 

“Problem? There’s no problem,” said Ron, still 
refusing to look at Harry. “Not according to you, 
anyway.” 



Page | 345 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There were several plunks on the canvas over their 
heads. It had started to rain. 



“Well, you’ve obviously got a problem,” said Harry. 
“Spit it out, will you?” 

Ron swung his long legs off the bed and sat up. He 
looked mean, unlike himself. 

“All right, I’ll spit it out. Don’t expect me to skip up 
and down the tent because there’s some other damn 
thing we’ve got to find. Just add it to the list of stuff 
you don’t know.” 

“I don’t know?” repeated Harry, “I don’t know?” 

Plunk, plunk, plunk. The rain was falling harder and 
heavier; it pattered on the leaf-strewn bank all around 
them and into the river chattering through the dark. 
Dread doused Harry’s jubilation: Ron was saying 
exactly what he had suspected and feared him to be 
thinking. 

“It’s not like I’m not having the time of my life here,” 
said Ron, “you know, with my arm mangled and 
nothing to eat and freezing my backside off every 
night. I just hoped, you know, after we’d been 
running round a few weeks, we’d have achieved 
something.” 

“Ron,” Hermione said, but in such a quiet voice that 
Ron could pretend not to have heard it over the loud 
tattoo the rain was now beating on the tent. 

“I thought you knew what you’d signed up for,” said 
Harry. 

“Yeah, I thought I did too.” 

Page | 346 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“So what part of it isn’t living up to your 
expectations?” asked Harry. Anger was coming to his 
defense now. “Did you think we’d be staying in five- 
star hotels? Finding a Horcrux every other day? Did 
you think you’d be back to Mummy by Christmas?” 

“We thought you knew what you were doing!” shouted 
Ron, standing up, and his words pierced Harry like 
scalding knives. “We thought Dumbledore had told 
you what to do, we thought you had a real plan!” 

“Ron!” said Hermione, this time clearly audible over 
the rain thundering on the tent roof, but again, he 
ignored her. 

“Well, sorry to let you down,” said Harry, his voice 
quite calm even though he felt hollow, inadequate. 

“I’ve been straight with you from the start, I told you 
everything Dumbledore told me. And in case you 
haven’t noticed, we’ve found one Horcrux — ” 

“Yeah, and we’re about as near getting rid of it as we 
are to finding the rest of them — nowhere effing near, 
in other words!” 

“Take off the locket, Ron,” Hermione said, her voice 
unusually high. “Please take it off. You wouldn’t be 
talking like this if you hadn’t been wearing it all day.” 

“Yeah, he would,” said Harry, who did not want 
excuses made for Ron. “D’you think I haven’t noticed 
the two of you whispering behind my back? D’you 
think I didn’t guess you were thinking this stuff?” 

“Harry, we weren’t — ” 

“Don’t lie!” Ron hurled at her. “You said it too, you 
said you were disappointed, you said you’d thought 
he had a bit more to go on than — ” 

Page | 347 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I didn’t say it like that — Harry, I didn’t!” she cried. 



The rain was pounding the tent, tears were pouring 
down Hermione’s face, and the excitement of a few 
minutes before had vanished as if it had never been, a 
short-lived firework that had flared and died, leaving 
everything dark, wet, and cold. The sword of 
Gryffindor was hidden they knew not where, and they 
were three teenagers in a tent whose only 
achievement was not, yet, to be dead. 

“So why are you still here?” Harry asked Ron. 

“Search me,” said Ron. 

“Go home then,” said Harry. 

“Yeah, maybe I will!” shouted Ron, and he took 
several steps toward Harry, who did not back away. 
“Didn’t you hear what they said about my sister? But 
you don’t give a rat’s fart, do you, it’s only the 
Forbidden Forest, Harry I’ve-Faced-Worse Potter 
doesn’t care what happens to her in here — well, I do, 
all right, giant spiders and mental stuff — ” 

“I was only saying — she was with the others, they 
were with Hagrid — ” 

“Yeah, I get it, you don’t care! And what about the 
rest of my family, ‘the Weasleys don’t need another 
kid injured,’ did you hear that?” 

“Yeah, I — ” 

“Not bothered what it meant, though?” 

“Ron!” said Hermione, forcing her way between them. 
“I don’t think it means anything new has happened, 
anything we don’t know about; think, Ron, Bill’s 

Page | 348 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




already scarred, plenty of people must have seen that 
George has lost an ear by now, and you’re supposed 
to be on your deathbed with spattergroit, I’m sure 
that’s all he meant — ” 

“Oh, you’re sure, are you? Right then, well, I won’t 
bother myself about them. It’s all right for you two, 
isn’t it, with your parents safely out of the way — ” 

“My parents are dead).” Harry bellowed. 

“And mine could be going the same way!” yelled Ron. 

“Then GO!” roared Harry. “Go back to them, pretend 
you’ve got over your spattergroit and Mummy’ll be 
able to feed you up and — ” 

Ron made a sudden movement: Harry reacted, but 
before either wand was clear of its owner’s pocket, 
Hermione had raised her own. 

“Protego\” she cried, and an invisible shield expanded 
between her and Harry on the one side and Ron on 
the other; all of them were forced backward a few 
steps by the strength of the spell, and Harry and Ron 
glared from either side of the transparent barrier as 
though they were seeing each other clearly for the 
first time. Harry felt a corrosive hatred toward Ron: 
Something had broken between them. 

“Leave the Horcrux,” Harry said. 

Ron wrenched the chain from over his head and cast 
the locket into a nearby chair. He turned to 
Hermione. 

“What are you doing?” 

“What do you mean?” 

Page | 349 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you staying, or what?” 

“I ...” She looked anguished. “Yes — yes, I’m staying. 
Ron, we said we’d go with Harry, we said we’d help — ” 

“I get it. You choose him.” 

“Ron, no — please — come back, come back!” 

She was impeded by her own Shield Charm; by the 
time she had removed it he had already stormed into 
the night. Harry stood quite still and silent, listening 
to her sobbing and calling Ron’s name amongst the 
trees. 

After a few minutes she returned, her sopping hair 
plastered to her face. 

“He’s g-g-gone! Disapparated!” 

She threw herself into a chair, curled up, and started 
to cry. 

Harry felt dazed. He stooped, picked up the Horcrux, 
and placed it around his own neck. He dragged 
blankets off Ron’s bunk and threw them over 
Hermione. Then he climbed onto his own bed and 
stared up at the dark canvas roof, listening to the 
pounding of the rain. 



Page | 350 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






GODRIC’S HOLLOW 

When Harry woke the following day it was several 
seconds before he remembered what had happened. 
Then he hoped, childishly, that it had been a dream, 
that Ron was still there and had never left. Yet by 
turning his head on his pillow he could see Ron’s 
deserted bunk. It was like a dead body in the way it 
seemed to draw his eyes. Harry jumped down from 
his own bed, keeping his eyes averted from Ron’s. 
Hermione, who was already busy in the kitchen, did 
not wish Harry good morning, but turned her face 
away quickly as he went by. 

He’s gone, Harry told himself. He’s gone. He had to 
keep thinking it as he washed and dressed, as though 
repetition would dull the shock of it. He’s gone and 
he’s not coming back. And that was the simple truth 
of it, Harry knew, because their protective 
enchantments meant that it would be impossible, 
once they vacated this spot, for Ron to find them 
again. 



Page | 351 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



He and Hermione ate breakfast in silence. Hermione ’s 
eyes were puffy and red; she looked as if she had not 
slept. They packed up their things, Hermione 
dawdling. Harry knew why she wanted to spin out 
their time on the riverbank; several times he saw her 
look up eagerly, and he was sure she had deluded 
herself into thinking that she heard footsteps through 
the heavy rain, but no red-haired figure appeared 
between the trees. Every time Harry imitated her, 
looked around (for he could not help hoping a little, 
himself) and saw nothing but rain-swept woods, 
another little parcel of fury exploded inside him. He 
could hear Ron saying, “ We thought you knew what 
you were doing \” , and he resumed packing with a 
hard knot in the pit of his stomach. 

The muddy river beside them was rising rapidly and 
would soon spill over onto their bank. They had 
lingered a good hour after they would usually have 
departed their campsite. Finally having entirely 
repacked the beaded bag three times, Hermione 
seemed unable to find any more reasons to delay: She 
and Harry grasped hands and Disapparated, 
reappearing on a windswept heather-covered hillside. 

The instant they arrived, Hermione dropped Harry’s 
hand and walked away from him, finally sitting down 
on a large rock, her face on her knees, shaking with 
what he knew were sobs. He watched her, supposing 
that he ought to go and comfort her, but something 
kept him rooted to the spot. Everything inside him felt 
cold and tight: Again he saw the contemptuous 
expression on Ron’s face. Harry strode off through the 
heather, walking in a large circle with the distraught 
Hermione at its center, casting the spells she usually 
performed to ensure their protection. 

They did not discuss Ron at all over the next few 
days. Harry was determined never to mention his 

Page | 352 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




name again, and Hermione seemed to know that it 
was no use forcing the issue, although sometimes at 
night when she thought he was sleeping, he would 
hear her crying. Meanwhile Harry had started 
bringing out the Marauder’s Map and examining it by 
wandlight. He was waiting for the moment when 
Ron’s labeled dot would reappear in the corridors of 
Hogwarts, proving that he had returned to the 
comfortable castle, protected by his status of 
pureblood. However, Ron did not appear on the map, 
and after a while Harry found himself taking it out 
simply to stare at Ginny’s name in the girls’ 
dormitory, wondering whether the intensity with 
which he gazed at it might break into her sleep, that 
she would somehow know he was thinking about her, 
hoping that she was all right. 

By day, they devoted themselves to trying to 
determine the possible locations of Gryffindor’s 
sword, but the more they talked about the places in 
which Dumbledore might have hidden it, the more 
desperate and far-fetched their speculation became. 
Cudgel his brains though he might, Harry could not 
remember Dumbledore ever mentioning a place in 
which he might hide something. There were moments 
when he did not know whether he was angrier with 
Ron or with Dumbledore. We thought you knew what 
you were doing. . . . We thought Dumbledore had told 
you what to do. . . . We thought you had a real plan\ 

He could not hide it from himself: Ron had been right. 
Dumbledore had left him with virtually nothing. They 
had discovered one Horcrux, but they had no means 
of destroying it: The others were as unattainable as 
they had ever been. Hopelessness threatened to 
engulf him. He was staggered now to think of his own 
presumption in accepting his friends’ offers to 
accompany him on this meandering, pointless 
journey. He knew nothing, he had no ideas, and he 
Page | 353 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




was constantly, painfully on the alert for any 
indication that Hermione too was about to tell him 
that she had had enough, that she was leaving. 

They were spending many evenings in near silence, 
and Hermione took to bringing out Phineas Nigellus’s 
portrait and propping it up in a chair, as though he 
might fill part of the gaping hole left by Ron’s 
departure. Despite his previous assertion that he 
would never visit them again, Phineas Nigellus did not 
seem able to resist the chance to find out more about 
what Harry was up to, and consented to reappear, 
blindfolded, every few days or so. Harry was even glad 
to see him, because he was company, albeit of a snide 
and taunting kind. They relished any news about 
what was happening at Hogwarts, though Phineas 
Nigellus was not an ideal informer. He venerated 
Snape, the first Slytherin headmaster since he 
himself had controlled the school, and they had to be 
careful not to criticize or ask impertinent questions 
about Snape, or Phineas Nigellus would instantly 
leave his painting. 

However, he did let drop certain snippets. Snape 
seemed to be facing a constant, low level of mutiny 
from a hard core of students. Ginny had been banned 
from going into Hogsmeade. Snape had reinstated 
Umbridge’s old decree forbidding gatherings of three 
or more students or any unofficial student societies. 

From all of these things, Harry deduced that Ginny, 
and probably Neville and Luna along with her, had 
been doing their best to continue Dumbledore’s Army. 
This scant news made Harry want to see Ginny so 
badly it felt like a stomachache; but it also made him 
think of Ron again, and of Dumbledore, and of 
Hogwarts itself, which he missed nearly as much as 
his ex-girlfriend. Indeed, as Phineas Nigellus talked 
about Snape ’s crackdown, Harry experienced a split 
Page | 354 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




second of madness when he imagined simply going 
back to school to join the destabilization of Snape’s 
regime: Being fed, and having a soft bed, and other 
people being in charge, seemed the most wonderful 
prospect in the world at that moment. But then he 
remembered that he was Undesirable Number One, 
that there was a ten-thousand-Galleon price on his 
head, and that to walk into Hogwarts these days was 
just as dangerous as walking into the Ministry of 
Magic. Indeed, Phineas Nigellus inadvertently 
emphasized this fact by slipping in leading questions 
about Harry and Hermione’s whereabouts. Hermione 
shoved him back inside the beaded bag every time he 
did this, and Phineas Nigellus invariably refused to 
reappear for several days after these unceremonious 
good-byes. 

The weather grew colder and colder. They did not 
dare remain in any one area too long, so rather than 
staying in the south of England, where a hard ground 
frost was the worst of their worries, they continued to 
meander up and down the country, braving a 
mountainside, where sleet pounded the tent; a wide, 
flat marsh, where the tent was flooded with chill 
water; and a tiny island in the middle of a Scottish 
loch, where snow half buried the tent in the night. 

They had already spotted Christmas trees twinkling 
from several sitting room windows before there came 
an evening when Harry resolved to suggest, again, 
what seemed to him the only unexplored avenue left 
to them. They had just eaten an unusually good meal: 
Hermione had been to a supermarket under the 
Invisibility Cloak (scrupulously dropping the money 
into an open till as she left), and Harry thought that 
she might be more persuadable than usual on a 
stomach full of spaghetti Bolognese and tinned pears. 
He had also had the foresight to suggest that they 
take a few hours’ break from wearing the Horcrux, 
Page | 355 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




which was hanging over the end of the bunk beside 
him. 



“Hermione?” 

“Hmm?” She was curled up in one of the sagging 
armchairs with The Tales of Beedle the Bard. He could 
not imagine how much more she could get out of the 
book, which was not, after all, very long; but evidently 
she was still deciphering something in it, because 
Spellman’s Syllabary lay open on the arm of the chair. 

Harry cleared his throat. He felt exactly as he had 
done on the occasion, several years previously, when 
he had asked Professor McGonagall whether he could 
go into Hogsmeade, despite the fact that he had not 
persuaded the Dursleys to sign his permission slip. 

“Hermione, I’ve been thinking, and — ” 

“Harry, could you help me with something?” 

Apparently she had not been listening to him. She 
leaned forward and held out The Tales of Beedle the 
Bard. 

“Look at that symbol,” she said, pointing to the top of 
a page. Above what Harry assumed was the title of 
the story (being unable to read runes, he could not be 
sure) , there was a picture of what looked like a 
triangular eye, its pupil crossed with a vertical line. 

“I never took Ancient Runes, Hermione.” 

“I know that, but it isn’t a rune and it’s not in the 
syllabary, either. All along I thought it was a picture 
of an eye, but I don’t think it is! It’s been inked in, 
look, somebody’s drawn it there, it isn’t really part of 
the book. Think, have you ever seen it before?” 

Page | 356 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No ... No, wait a moment.” Harry looked closer. “Isn’t 
it the same symbol Luna’s dad was wearing round his 
neck?” 



“Well, that’s what I thought too!” 

“Then it’s Grindelwald’s mark.” 

She stared at him, openmouthed. 

“What?” 

“Krum told me ...” 

He recounted the story that Viktor Krum had told him 
at the wedding. Hermione looked astonished. 

“ Grindelwald’s mark?” 

She looked from Harry to the weird symbol and back 
again. “I’ve never heard that Grindelwald had a mark. 
There’s no mention of it in anything I’ve ever read 
about him.” 

“Well, like I say, Krum reckoned that symbol was 
carved on a wall at Durmstrang, and Grindelwald put 
it there.” 

She fell back into the old armchair, frowning. 

“That’s very odd. If it’s a symbol of Dark Magic, what’s 
it doing in a book of children’s stories?” 

“Yeah, it is weird,” said Harry. “And you’d think 
Scrimgeour would have recognized it. He was 
Minister, he ought to have been expert on Dark stuff.” 



Page | 357 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I know. ... Perhaps he thought it was an eye, just like 
I did. All the other stories have little pictures over the 
titles.” 



She did not speak, but continued to pore over the 
strange mark. Harry tried again. 

“Hermione?” 

“Hmm?” 

“I’ve been thinking. I — I want to go to Godric’s 
Hollow.” 

She looked up at him, but her eyes were unfocused, 
and he was sure she was still thinking about the 
mysterious mark on the book. 

“Yes,” she said. “Yes, I’ve been wondering that too. I 
really think we’ll have to.” 

“Did you hear me right?” he asked. 

“Of course I did. You want to go to Godric’s Hollow. I 
agree, I think we should. I mean, I can’t think of 
anywhere else it could be either. It’ll be dangerous, 
but the more I think about it, the more likely it seems 
it’s there.” 

“Er — what’s there?” asked Harry. 

At that, she looked just as bewildered as he felt. 

“Well, the sword, Harry! Dumbledore must have 
known you’d want to go back there, and I mean, 
Godric’s Hollow is Godric Gryffindor’s birthplace — ” 

“Really? Gryffindor came from Godric’s Hollow?” 

Page | 358 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, did you ever even open A History of Magic?” 



“Erm,” he said, smiling for what felt like the first time 
in months: The muscles in his face felt oddly stiff. “I 
might’ve opened it, you know, when I bought it ... just 
the once. ...” 

“Well, as the village is named after him I’d have 
thought you might have made the connection,” said 
Hermione. She sounded much more like her old self 
than she had done of late; Harry half expected her to 
