The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Forsyte Saga, The Man Of Property, by John Galsworthy

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Forsyte Saga, The Man Of Property

Author: John Galsworthy

Release Date: March, 2001 [EBook #2559]
[Most recently updated: May 11, 2020]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FORSYTE SAGA, THE MAN OF PROPERTY ***




Produced by David Widger

      spines (203K)

      subscription (12K)

      editon (10K)

      titlepage1 (38K)

      frontis1 (60K)




      FORSYTE SAGA

      THE MAN OF PROPERTY

      By John Galsworthy


      Contents

         PREFACE:

         THE MAN OF PROPERTY

         PART I

         CHAPTER I—“AT HOME” AT OLD JOLYON’S

         CHAPTER II—OLD JOLYON GOES TO THE OPERA

         CHAPTER III—DINNER AT SWITHIN’S

         CHAPTER IV—PROJECTION OF THE HOUSE

         CHAPTER V—A FORSYTE MÉNAGE

         CHAPTER VI—JAMES AT LARGE

         CHAPTER VII—OLD JOLYON’S PECCADILLO

         CHAPTER VIII—PLANS OF THE HOUSE

         CHAPTER IX—DEATH OF AUNT ANN


         PART II

         CHAPTER I—PROGRESS OF THE HOUSE

         CHAPTER II—JUNE’S TREAT

         CHAPTER III—DRIVE WITH SWITHIN

         CHAPTER IV—JAMES GOES TO SEE FOR HIMSELF

         CHAPTER V—SOAMES AND BOSINNEY CORRESPOND

         CHAPTER VI—OLD JOLYON AT THE ZOO

         CHAPTER VII—AFTERNOON AT TIMOTHY’S

         CHAPTER VIII—DANCE AT ROGER’S

         CHAPTER IX—EVENING AT RICHMOND

         CHAPTER X—DIAGNOSIS OF A FORSYTE

         CHAPTER XI—BOSINNEY ON PAROLE

         CHAPTER XII—JUNE PAYS SOME CALLS

         CHAPTER XIII—PERFECTION OF THE HOUSE

         CHAPTER XIV—SOAMES SITS ON THE STAIRS


         PART III

         CHAPTER I—MRS. MACANDER’S EVIDENCE

         CHAPTER II—NIGHT IN THE PARK

         CHAPTER III—MEETING AT THE BOTANICAL

         CHAPTER IV—VOYAGE INTO THE INFERNO

         CHAPTER V—THE TRIAL

         CHAPTER VI—SOAMES BREAKS THE NEWS

         CHAPTER VII—JUNE’S VICTORY

         CHAPTER VIII—BOSINNEY’S DEPARTURE

         CHAPTER IX—IRENE’S RETURN




      THE MAN OF PROPERTY


        TO MY WIFE:
 I DEDICATE THE FORSYTE SAGA IN ITS ENTIRETY,
 BELIEVING IT TO BE OF ALL MY WORKS THE LEAST UNWORTHY OF ONE WITHOUT
 WHOSE ENCOURAGEMENT, SYMPATHY AND CRITICISM I COULD NEVER HAVE BECOME
 EVEN SUCH A WRITER AS I AM.




      PREFACE:


      “The Forsyte Saga” was the title originally destined for that
      part of it which is called “The Man of Property”; and to adopt it
      for the collected chronicles of the Forsyte family has indulged
      the Forsytean tenacity that is in all of us. The word Saga might
      be objected to on the ground that it connotes the heroic and that
      there is little heroism in these pages. But it is used with a
      suitable irony; and, after all, this long tale, though it may
      deal with folk in frock coats, furbelows, and a gilt-edged
      period, is not devoid of the essential heat of conflict.
      Discounting for the gigantic stature and blood-thirstiness of old
      days, as they have come down to us in fairy-tale and legend, the
      folk of the old Sagas were Forsytes, assuredly, in their
      possessive instincts, and as little proof against the inroads of
      beauty and passion as Swithin, Soames, or even Young Jolyon. And
      if heroic figures, in days that never were, seem to startle out
      from their surroundings in fashion unbecoming to a Forsyte of the
      Victorian era, we may be sure that tribal instinct was even then
      the prime force, and that “family” and the sense of home and
      property counted as they do to this day, for all the recent
      efforts to “talk them out.”

      So many people have written and claimed that their families were
      the originals of the Forsytes that one has been almost encouraged
      to believe in the typicality of an imagined species. Manners
      change and modes evolve, and “Timothy’s on the Bayswater Road”
      becomes a nest of the unbelievable in all except essentials; we
      shall not look upon its like again, nor perhaps on such a one as
      James or Old Jolyon. And yet the figures of Insurance Societies
      and the utterances of Judges reassure us daily that our earthly
      paradise is still a rich preserve, where the wild raiders, Beauty
      and Passion, come stealing in, filching security from beneath our
      noses. As surely as a dog will bark at a brass band, so will the
      essential Soames in human nature ever rise up uneasily against
      the dissolution which hovers round the folds of ownership.

      “Let the dead Past bury its dead” would be a better saying if the
      Past ever died. The persistence of the Past is one of those
      tragi-comic blessings which each new age denies, coming cocksure
      on to the stage to mouth its claim to a perfect novelty.

      But no Age is so new as that! Human Nature, under its changing
      pretensions and clothes, is and ever will be very much of a
      Forsyte, and might, after all, be a much worse animal.

      Looking back on the Victorian era, whose ripeness, decline, and
      “fall-of” is in some sort pictured in “The Forsyte Saga,” we see
      now that we have but jumped out of a frying-pan into a fire. It
      would be difficult to substantiate a claim that the case of
      England was better in 1913 than it was in 1886, when the Forsytes
      assembled at Old Jolyon’s to celebrate the engagement of June to
      Philip Bosinney. And in 1920, when again the clan gathered to
      bless the marriage of Fleur with Michael Mont, the state of
      England is as surely too molten and bankrupt as in the eighties
      it was too congealed and low-percented. If these chronicles had
      been a really scientific study of transition one would have dwelt
      probably on such factors as the invention of bicycle, motor-car,
      and flying-machine; the arrival of a cheap Press; the decline of
      country life and increase of the towns; the birth of the Cinema.
      Men are, in fact, quite unable to control their own inventions;
      they at best develop adaptability to the new conditions those
      inventions create.

      But this long tale is no scientific study of a period; it is
      rather an intimate incarnation of the disturbance that Beauty
      effects in the lives of men.

      The figure of Irene, never, as the reader may possibly have
      observed, present, except through the senses of other characters,
      is a concretion of disturbing Beauty impinging on a possessive
      world.

      One has noticed that readers, as they wade on through the salt
      waters of the Saga, are inclined more and more to pity Soames,
      and to think that in doing so they are in revolt against the mood
      of his creator. Far from it! He, too, pities Soames, the tragedy
      of whose life is the very simple, uncontrollable tragedy of being
      unlovable, without quite a thick enough skin to be thoroughly
      unconscious of the fact. Not even Fleur loves Soames as he feels
      he ought to be loved. But in pitying Soames, readers incline,
      perhaps, to animus against Irene: After all, they think, he
      wasn’t a bad fellow, it wasn’t his fault; she ought to have
      forgiven him, and so on!

      And, taking sides, they lose perception of the simple truth,
      which underlies the whole story, that where sex attraction is
      utterly and definitely lacking in one partner to a union, no
      amount of pity, or reason, or duty, or what not, can overcome a
      repulsion implicit in Nature. Whether it ought to, or no, is
      beside the point; because in fact it never does. And where Irene
      seems hard and cruel, as in the Bois de Boulogne, or the Goupenor
      Gallery, she is but wisely realistic—knowing that the least
      concession is the inch which precedes the impossible, the
      repulsive ell.

      A criticism one might pass on the last phase of the Saga is the
      complaint that Irene and Jolyon those rebels against
      property—claim spiritual property in their son Jon. But it would
      be hypercriticism, as the tale is told. No father and mother
      could have let the boy marry Fleur without knowledge of the
      facts; and the facts determine Jon, not the persuasion of his
      parents. Moreover, Jolyon’s persuasion is not on his own account,
      but on Irene’s, and Irene’s persuasion becomes a reiterated:
      “Don’t think of me, think of yourself!” That Jon, knowing the
      facts, can realise his mother’s feelings, will hardly with
      justice be held proof that she is, after all, a Forsyte.

      But though the impingement of Beauty and the claims of Freedom on
      a possessive world are the main prepossessions of the Forsyte
      Saga, it cannot be absolved from the charge of embalming the
      upper-middle class. As the old Egyptians placed around their
      mummies the necessaries of a future existence, so I have
      endeavoured to lay beside the figures of Aunts Ann and Juley and
      Hester, of Timothy and Swithin, of Old Jolyon and James, and of
      their sons, that which shall guarantee them a little life
      here-after, a little balm in the hurried Gilead of a dissolving
      “Progress.”

      If the upper-middle class, with other classes, is destined to
      “move on” into amorphism, here, pickled in these pages, it lies
      under glass for strollers in the wide and ill-arranged museum of
      Letters. Here it rests, preserved in its own juice: The Sense of
      Property. 1922.


      THE MAN OF PROPERTY

      by JOHN GALSWORTHY
                                “........You will answer The slaves are
                                ours.....”
                                 —Merchant of Venice.
      TO EDWARD GARNETT




      PART I

      CHAPTER I “AT HOME” AT OLD JOLYON’S


      Those privileged to be present at a family festival of the
      Forsytes have seen that charming and instructive sight—an upper
      middle-class family in full plumage. But whosoever of these
      favoured persons has possessed the gift of psychological analysis
      (a talent without monetary value and properly ignored by the
      Forsytes), has witnessed a spectacle, not only delightful in
      itself, but illustrative of an obscure human problem. In plainer
      words, he has gleaned from a gathering of this family—no branch
      of which had a liking for the other, between no three members of
      whom existed anything worthy of the name of sympathy—evidence of
      that mysterious concrete tenacity which renders a family so
      formidable a unit of society, so clear a reproduction of society
      in miniature. He has been admitted to a vision of the dim roads
      of social progress, has understood something of patriarchal life,
      of the swarmings of savage hordes, of the rise and fall of
      nations. He is like one who, having watched a tree grow from its
      planting—a paragon of tenacity, insulation, and success, amidst
      the deaths of a hundred other plants less fibrous, sappy, and
      persistent—one day will see it flourishing with bland, full
      foliage, in an almost repugnant prosperity, at the summit of its
      efflorescence.

      On June 15, eighteen eighty-six, about four of the afternoon, the
      observer who chanced to be present at the house of old Jolyon
      Forsyte in Stanhope Gate, might have seen the highest
      efflorescence of the Forsytes.

      This was the occasion of an “at home” to celebrate the engagement
      of Miss June Forsyte, old Jolyon’s granddaughter, to Mr. Philip
      Bosinney. In the bravery of light gloves, buff waistcoats,
      feathers and frocks, the family were present, even Aunt Ann, who
      now but seldom left the corner of her brother Timothy’s green
      drawing-room, where, under the aegis of a plume of dyed pampas
      grass in a light blue vase, she sat all day reading and knitting,
      surrounded by the effigies of three generations of Forsytes. Even
      Aunt Ann was there; her inflexible back, and the dignity of her
      calm old face personifying the rigid possessiveness of the family
      idea.

      When a Forsyte was engaged, married, or born, the Forsytes were
      present; when a Forsyte died—but no Forsyte had as yet died; they
      did not die; death being contrary to their principles, they took
      precautions against it, the instinctive precautions of highly
      vitalized persons who resent encroachments on their property.

      About the Forsytes mingling that day with the crowd of other
      guests, there was a more than ordinarily groomed look, an alert,
      inquisitive assurance, a brilliant respectability, as though they
      were attired in defiance of something. The habitual sniff on the
      face of Soames Forsyte had spread through their ranks; they were
      on their guard.

      The subconscious offensiveness of their attitude has constituted
      old Jolyon’s “home” the psychological moment of the family
      history, made it the prelude of their drama.

      The Forsytes were resentful of something, not individually, but
      as a family; this resentment expressed itself in an added
      perfection of raiment, an exuberance of family cordiality, an
      exaggeration of family importance, and—the sniff. Danger—so
      indispensable in bringing out the fundamental quality of any
      society, group, or individual—was what the Forsytes scented; the
      premonition of danger put a burnish on their armour. For the
      first time, as a family, they appeared to have an instinct of
      being in contact, with some strange and unsafe thing.

      Over against the piano a man of bulk and stature was wearing two
      waistcoats on his wide chest, two waistcoats and a ruby pin,
      instead of the single satin waistcoat and diamond pin of more
      usual occasions, and his shaven, square, old face, the colour of
      pale leather, with pale eyes, had its most dignified look, above
      his satin stock. This was Swithin Forsyte. Close to the window,
      where he could get more than his fair share of fresh air, the
      other twin, James—the fat and the lean of it, old Jolyon called
      these brothers—like the bulky Swithin, over six feet in height,
      but very lean, as though destined from his birth to strike a
      balance and maintain an average, brooded over the scene with his
      permanent stoop; his grey eyes had an air of fixed absorption in
      some secret worry, broken at intervals by a rapid, shifting
      scrutiny of surrounding facts; his cheeks, thinned by two
      parallel folds, and a long, clean-shaven upper lip, were framed
      within Dundreary whiskers. In his hands he turned and turned a
      piece of china. Not far off, listening to a lady in brown, his
      only son Soames, pale and well-shaved, dark-haired, rather bald,
      had poked his chin up sideways, carrying his nose with that
      aforesaid appearance of “sniff,” as though despising an egg which
      he knew he could not digest. Behind him his cousin, the tall
      George, son of the fifth Forsyte, Roger, had a Quilpish look on
      his fleshy face, pondering one of his sardonic jests. Something
      inherent to the occasion had affected them all.

      Seated in a row close to one another were three ladies—Aunts Ann,
      Hester (the two Forsyte maids), and Juley (short for Julia), who
      not in first youth had so far forgotten herself as to marry
      Septimus Small, a man of poor constitution. She had survived him
      for many years. With her elder and younger sister she lived now
      in the house of Timothy, her sixth and youngest brother, on the
      Bayswater Road. Each of these ladies held fans in their hands,
      and each with some touch of colour, some emphatic feather or
      brooch, testified to the solemnity of the opportunity.

      In the centre of the room, under the chandelier, as became a
      host, stood the head of the family, old Jolyon himself. Eighty
      years of age, with his fine, white hair, his dome-like forehead,
      his little, dark grey eyes, and an immense white moustache, which
      drooped and spread below the level of his strong jaw, he had a
      patriarchal look, and in spite of lean cheeks and hollows at his
      temples, seemed master of perennial youth. He held himself
      extremely upright, and his shrewd, steady eyes had lost none of
      their clear shining. Thus he gave an impression of superiority to
      the doubts and dislikes of smaller men. Having had his own way
      for innumerable years, he had earned a prescriptive right to it.
      It would never have occurred to old Jolyon that it was necessary
      to wear a look of doubt or of defiance.

      Between him and the four other brothers who were present, James,
      Swithin, Nicholas, and Roger, there was much difference, much
      similarity. In turn, each of these four brothers was very
      different from the other, yet they, too, were alike.

      Through the varying features and expression of those five faces
      could be marked a certain steadfastness of chin, underlying
      surface distinctions, marking a racial stamp, too prehistoric to
      trace, too remote and permanent to discuss—the very hall-mark and
      guarantee of the family fortunes.

      Among the younger generation, in the tall, bull-like George, in
      pallid strenuous Archibald, in young Nicholas with his sweet and
      tentative obstinacy, in the grave and foppishly determined
      Eustace, there was this same stamp—less meaningful perhaps, but
      unmistakable—a sign of something ineradicable in the family soul.
      At one time or another during the afternoon, all these faces, so
      dissimilar and so alike, had worn an expression of distrust, the
      object of which was undoubtedly the man whose acquaintance they
      were thus assembled to make. Philip Bosinney was known to be a
      young man without fortune, but Forsyte girls had become engaged
      to such before, and had actually married them. It was not
      altogether for this reason, therefore, that the minds of the
      Forsytes misgave them. They could not have explained the origin
      of a misgiving obscured by the mist of family gossip. A story was
      undoubtedly told that he had paid his duty call to Aunts Ann,
      Juley, and Hester, in a soft grey hat—a soft grey hat, not even a
      new one—a dusty thing with a shapeless crown. “So, extraordinary,
      my dear—so odd,” Aunt Hester, passing through the little, dark
      hall (she was rather short-sighted), had tried to “shoo” it off a
      chair, taking it for a strange, disreputable cat—Tommy had such
      disgraceful friends! She was disturbed when it did not move.

      Like an artist for ever seeking to discover the significant
      trifle which embodies the whole character of a scene, or place,
      or person, so those unconscious artists—the Forsytes had fastened
      by intuition on this hat; it was their significant trifle, the
      detail in which was embedded the meaning of the whole matter; for
      each had asked himself: “Come, now, should _I_ have paid that
      visit in that hat?” and each had answered “No!” and some, with
      more imagination than others, had added: “It would never have
      come into my head!”

      George, on hearing the story, grinned. The hat had obviously been
      worn as a practical joke! He himself was a connoisseur of such.
      “Very haughty!” he said, “the wild Buccaneer.”

      And this mot, the “Buccaneer,” was bandied from mouth to mouth,
      till it became the favourite mode of alluding to Bosinney.

      Her aunts reproached June afterwards about the hat.

      “We don’t think you ought to let him, dear!” they had said.

      June had answered in her imperious brisk way, like the little
      embodiment of will she was: “Oh! what does it matter? Phil never
      knows what he’s got on!”

      No one had credited an answer so outrageous. A man not to know
      what he had on? No, no! What indeed was this young man, who, in
      becoming engaged to June, old Jolyon’s acknowledged heiress, had
      done so well for himself? He was an architect, not in itself a
      sufficient reason for wearing such a hat. None of the Forsytes
      happened to be architects, but one of them knew two architects
      who would never have worn such a hat upon a call of ceremony in
      the London season.

      Dangerous—ah, dangerous! June, of course, had not seen this, but,
      though not yet nineteen, she was notorious. Had she not said to
      Mrs. Soames—who was always so beautifully dressed—that feathers
      were vulgar? Mrs. Soames had actually given up wearing feathers,
      so dreadfully downright was dear June!

      These misgivings, this disapproval, and perfectly genuine
      distrust, did not prevent the Forsytes from gathering to old
      Jolyon’s invitation. An “At Home” at Stanhope Gate was a great
      rarity; none had been held for twelve years, not indeed, since
      old Mrs. Jolyon had died.

      Never had there been so full an assembly, for, mysteriously
      united in spite of all their differences, they had taken arms
      against a common peril. Like cattle when a dog comes into the
      field, they stood head to head and shoulder to shoulder, prepared
      to run upon and trample the invader to death. They had come, too,
      no doubt, to get some notion of what sort of presents they would
      ultimately be expected to give; for though the question of
      wedding gifts was usually graduated in this way: “What are _you_
      givin’. Nicholas is givin’ spoons!”—so very much depended on the
      bridegroom. If he were sleek, well-brushed, prosperous-looking,
      it was more necessary to give him nice things; he would expect
      them. In the end each gave exactly what was right and proper, by
      a species of family adjustment arrived at as prices are arrived
      at on the Stock Exchange—the exact niceties being regulated at
      Timothy’s commodious, red-brick residence in Bayswater,
      overlooking the Park, where dwelt Aunts Ann, Juley, and Hester.

      The uneasiness of the Forsyte family has been justified by the
      simple mention of the hat. How impossible and wrong would it have
      been for any family, with the regard for appearances which should
      ever characterize the great upper middle-class, to feel otherwise
      than uneasy!

      The author of the uneasiness stood talking to June by the further
      door; his curly hair had a rumpled appearance, as though he found
      what was going on around him unusual. He had an air, too, of
      having a joke all to himself. George, speaking aside to his
      brother, Eustace, said:

      “Looks as if he might make a bolt of it—the dashing Buccaneer!”

      This “very singular-looking man,” as Mrs. Small afterwards called
      him, was of medium height and strong build, with a pale, brown
      face, a dust-coloured moustache, very prominent cheek-bones, and
      hollow checks. His forehead sloped back towards the crown of his
      head, and bulged out in bumps over the eyes, like foreheads seen
      in the Lion-house at the Zoo. He had sherry-coloured eyes,
      disconcertingly inattentive at times. Old Jolyon’s coachman,
      after driving June and Bosinney to the theatre, had remarked to
      the butler:

      “I dunno what to make of ’im. Looks to me for all the world like
      an ’alf-tame leopard.” And every now and then a Forsyte would
      come up, sidle round, and take a look at him.

      June stood in front, fending off this idle curiosity—a little bit
      of a thing, as somebody once said, “all hair and spirit,” with
      fearless blue eyes, a firm jaw, and a bright colour, whose face
      and body seemed too slender for her crown of red-gold hair.

      A tall woman, with a beautiful figure, which some member of the
      family had once compared to a heathen goddess, stood looking at
      these two with a shadowy smile.

      Her hands, gloved in French grey, were crossed one over the
      other, her grave, charming face held to one side, and the eyes of
      all men near were fastened on it. Her figure swayed, so balanced
      that the very air seemed to set it moving. There was warmth, but
      little colour, in her cheeks; her large, dark eyes were soft.

      But it was at her lips—asking a question, giving an answer, with
      that shadowy smile—that men looked; they were sensitive lips,
      sensuous and sweet, and through them seemed to come warmth and
      perfume like the warmth and perfume of a flower.

      The engaged couple thus scrutinized were unconscious of this
      passive goddess. It was Bosinney who first noticed her, and asked
      her name.

      June took her lover up to the woman with the beautiful figure.

      “Irene is my greatest chum,” she said: “Please be good friends,
      you two!”

      At the little lady’s command they all three smiled; and while
      they were smiling, Soames Forsyte, silently appearing from behind
      the woman with the beautiful figure, who was his wife, said:

      “Ah! introduce me too!”

      He was seldom, indeed, far from Irene’s side at public functions,
      and even when separated by the exigencies of social intercourse,
      could be seen following her about with his eyes, in which were
      strange expressions of watchfulness and longing.

      At the window his father, James, was still scrutinizing the marks
      on the piece of china.

      “I wonder at Jolyon’s allowing this engagement,” he said to Aunt
      Ann. “They tell me there’s no chance of their getting married for
      years. This young Bosinney” (he made the word a dactyl in
      opposition to general usage of a short o) “has got nothing. When
      Winifred married Dartie, I made him bring every penny into
      settlement—lucky thing, too—they’d ha’ had nothing by this time!”

      Aunt Ann looked up from her velvet chair. Grey curls banded her
      forehead, curls that, unchanged for decades, had extinguished in
      the family all sense of time. She made no reply, for she rarely
      spoke, husbanding her aged voice; but to James, uneasy of
      conscience, her look was as good as an answer.

      “Well,” he said, “I couldn’t help Irene’s having no money. Soames
      was in such a hurry; he got quite thin dancing attendance on
      her.”

      Putting the bowl pettishly down on the piano, he let his eyes
      wander to the group by the door.

      “It’s my opinion,” he said unexpectedly, “that it’s just as well
      as it is.”

      Aunt Ann did not ask him to explain this strange utterance. She
      knew what he was thinking. If Irene had no money she would not be
      so foolish as to do anything wrong; for they said—they said—she
      had been asking for a separate room; but, of course, Soames had
      not....

      James interrupted her reverie:

      “But where,” he asked, “was Timothy? Hadn’t he come with them?”

      Through Aunt Ann’s compressed lips a tender smile forced its way:

      “No, he didn’t think it wise, with so much of this diphtheria
      about; and he so liable to take things.”

      James answered:

      “Well, _he_ takes good care of himself. I can’t afford to take
      the care of myself that he does.”

      Nor was it easy to say which, of admiration, envy, or contempt,
      was dominant in that remark.

      Timothy, indeed, was seldom seen. The baby of the family, a
      publisher by profession, he had some years before, when business
      was at full tide, scented out the stagnation which, indeed, had
      not yet come, but which ultimately, as all agreed, was bound to
      set in, and, selling his share in a firm engaged mainly in the
      production of religious books, had invested the quite conspicuous
      proceeds in three per cent. consols. By this act he had at once
      assumed an isolated position, no other Forsyte being content with
      less than four per cent. for his money; and this isolation had
      slowly and surely undermined a spirit perhaps better than
      commonly endowed with caution. He had become almost a myth—a kind
      of incarnation of security haunting the background of the Forsyte
      universe. He had never committed the imprudence of marrying, or
      encumbering himself in any way with children.

      James resumed, tapping the piece of china:

      “This isn’t real old Worcester. I s’pose Jolyon’s told you
      something about the young man. From all _I_ can learn, he’s got
      no business, no income, and no connection worth speaking of; but
      then, I know nothing—nobody tells me anything.”

      Aunt Ann shook her head. Over her square-chinned, aquiline old
      face a trembling passed; the spidery fingers of her hands pressed
      against each other and interlaced, as though she were subtly
      recharging her will.

      The eldest by some years of all the Forsytes, she held a peculiar
      position amongst them. Opportunists and egotists one and
      all—though not, indeed, more so than their neighbours—they
      quailed before her incorruptible figure, and, when opportunities
      were too strong, what could they do but avoid her!

      Twisting his long, thin legs, James went on:

      “Jolyon, he will have his own way. He’s got no children”—and
      stopped, recollecting the continued existence of old Jolyon’s
      son, young Jolyon, Jun’s father, who had made such a mess of it,
      and done for himself by deserting his wife and child and running
      away with that foreign governess. “Well,” he resumed hastily, “if
      he likes to do these things, I s’pose he can afford to. Now,
      what’s he going to give her? I s’pose he’ll give her a thousand a
      year; he’s got nobody else to leave his money to.”

      He stretched out his hand to meet that of a dapper, clean-shaven
      man, with hardly a hair on his head, a long, broken nose, full
      lips, and cold grey eyes under rectangular brows.

      “Well, Nick,” he muttered, “how are you?”

      Nicholas Forsyte, with his bird-like rapidity and the look of a
      preternaturally sage schoolboy (he had made a large fortune,
      quite legitimately, out of the companies of which he was a
      director), placed within that cold palm the tips of his still
      colder fingers and hastily withdrew them.

      “I’m bad,” he said, pouting—“been bad all the week; don’t sleep
      at night. The doctor can’t tell why. He’s a clever fellow, or I
      shouldn’t have him, but I get nothing out of him but bills.”

      “Doctors!” said James, coming down sharp on his words: “_I’ve_
      had all the doctors in London for one or another of us. There’s
      no satisfaction to be got out of _them;_ they’ll tell you
      anything. There’s Swithin, now. What good have they done him?
      There he is; he’s bigger than ever; he’s enormous; they can’t get
      his weight down. Look at him!”

      Swithin Forsyte, tall, square, and broad, with a chest like a
      pouter pigeon’s in its plumage of bright waistcoats, came
      strutting towards them.

      “Er—how are you?” he said in his dandified way, aspirating the
      “h” strongly (this difficult letter was almost absolutely safe in
      his keeping)—“how are you?”

      Each brother wore an air of aggravation as he looked at the other
      two, knowing by experience that they would try to eclipse his
      ailments.

      “We were just saying,” said James, “that you don’t get any
      thinner.”

      Swithin protruded his pale round eyes with the effort of hearing.

      “Thinner? I’m in good case,” he said, leaning a little forward,
      “not one of your thread-papers like you!”

      But, afraid of losing the expansion of his chest, he leaned back
      again into a state of immobility, for he prized nothing so highly
      as a distinguished appearance.

      Aunt Ann turned her old eyes from one to the other. Indulgent and
      severe was her look. In turn the three brothers looked at Ann.
      She was getting shaky. Wonderful woman! Eighty-six if a day;
      might live another ten years, and had never been strong. Swithin
      and James, the twins, were only seventy-five, Nicholas a mere
      baby of seventy or so. All were strong, and the inference was
      comforting. Of all forms of property their respective healths
      naturally concerned them most.

      “I’m very well in myself,” proceeded James, “but my nerves are
      out of order. The least thing worries me to death. I shall have
      to go to Bath.”

      “Bath!” said Nicholas. “I’ve tried Harrogate. _That’s_ no good.
      What I want is sea air. There’s nothing like Yarmouth. Now, when
      I go there I sleep....”

      “My liver’s very bad,” interrupted Swithin slowly. “Dreadful pain
      here;” and he placed his hand on his right side.

      “Want of exercise,” muttered James, his eyes on the china. He
      quickly added: “I get a pain there, too.”

      Swithin reddened, a resemblance to a turkey-cock coming upon his
      old face.

      “Exercise!” he said. “I take plenty: I never use the lift at the
      Club.”

      “I didn’t know,” James hurried out. “I know nothing about
      anybody; nobody tells me anything....”

      Swithin fixed him with a stare:

      “What do you do for a pain there?”

      James brightened.

      “I take a compound....”

      “How are you, uncle?”

      June stood before him, her resolute small face raised from her
      little height to his great height, and her hand outheld.

      The brightness faded from James’s visage.

      “How are you?” he said, brooding over her. “So you’re going to
      Wales to-morrow to visit your young man’s aunts? You’ll have a
      lot of rain there. This isn’t real old Worcester.” He tapped the
      bowl. “Now, that set I gave your mother when she married was the
      genuine thing.”

      June shook hands one by one with her three great-uncles, and
      turned to Aunt Ann. A very sweet look had come into the old
      lady’s face, she kissed the girl’s check with trembling fervour.

      “Well, my dear,” she said, “and so you’re going for a whole
      month!”

      The girl passed on, and Aunt Ann looked after her slim little
      figure. The old lady’s round, steel grey eyes, over which a film
      like a bird’s was beginning to come, followed her wistfully
      amongst the bustling crowd, for people were beginning to say
      good-bye; and her finger-tips, pressing and pressing against each
      other, were busy again with the recharging of her will against
      that inevitable ultimate departure of her own.

      “Yes,” she thought, “everybody’s been most kind; quite a lot of
      people come to congratulate her. She ought to be very happy.”
      Amongst the throng of people by the door, the well-dressed throng
      drawn from the families of lawyers and doctors, from the Stock
      Exchange, and all the innumerable avocations of the upper-middle
      class—there were only some twenty percent of Forsytes; but to
      Aunt Ann they seemed all Forsytes—and certainly there was not
      much difference—she saw only her own flesh and blood. It was her
      world, this family, and she knew no other, had never perhaps
      known any other. All their little secrets, illnesses,
      engagements, and marriages, how they were getting on, and whether
      they were making money—all this was her property, her delight,
      her life; beyond this only a vague, shadowy mist of facts and
      persons of no real significance. This it was that she would have
      to lay down when it came to her turn to die; this which gave to
      her that importance, that secret self-importance, without which
      none of us can bear to live; and to this she clung wistfully,
      with a greed that grew each day! If life were slipping away from
      her, _this_ she would retain to the end.

      She thought of Jun’s father, young Jolyon, who had run away with
      that foreign girl. And what a sad blow to his father and to them
      all. Such a promising young fellow! A sad blow, though there had
      been no public scandal, most fortunately, Jo’s wife seeking for
      no divorce! A long time ago! And when Jun’s mother died, six
      years ago, Jo had married that woman, and they had two children
      now, so she had heard. Still, he had forfeited his right to be
      there, had cheated her of the complete fulfilment of her family
      pride, deprived her of the rightful pleasure of seeing and
      kissing him of whom she had been so proud, such a promising young
      fellow! The thought rankled with the bitterness of a
      long-inflicted injury in her tenacious old heart. A little water
      stood in her eyes. With a handkerchief of the finest lawn she
      wiped them stealthily.

      “Well, Aunt Ann?” said a voice behind.

      Soames Forsyte, flat-shouldered, clean-shaven, flat-cheeked,
      flat-waisted, yet with something round and secret about his whole
      appearance, looked downwards and aslant at Aunt Ann, as though
      trying to see through the side of his own nose.

      “And what do you think of the engagement?” he asked.

      Aunt Ann’s eyes rested on him proudly; of all the nephews since
      young Jolyon’s departure from the family nest, he was now her
      favourite, for she recognised in him a sure trustee of the family
      soul that must so soon slip beyond her keeping.

      “Very nice for the young man,” she said; “and he’s a good-looking
      young fellow; but I doubt if he’s quite the right lover for dear
      June.”

      Soames touched the edge of a gold-lacquered lustre.

      “She’ll tame him,” he said, stealthily wetting his finger and
      rubbing it on the knobby bulbs. “That’s genuine old lacquer; you
      can’t get it nowadays. It’d do well in a sale at Jobson’s.” He
      spoke with relish, as though he felt that he was cheering up his
      old aunt. It was seldom he was so confidential. “I wouldn’t mind
      having it myself,” he added; “you can always get your price for
      old lacquer.”

      “You’re so clever with all those things,” said Aunt Ann. “And how
      is dear Irene?”

      Soames’s smile died.

      “Pretty well,” he said. “Complains she can’t sleep; she sleeps a
      great deal better than I do,” and he looked at his wife, who was
      talking to Bosinney by the door.

      Aunt Ann sighed.

      “Perhaps,” she said, “it will be just as well for her not to see
      so much of June. She’s such a decided character, dear June!”

      Soames flushed; his flushes passed rapidly over his flat cheeks
      and centered between his eyes, where they remained, the stamp of
      disturbing thoughts.

      “I don’t know what she sees in that little flibbertigibbet,” he
      burst out, but noticing that they were no longer alone, he turned
      and again began examining the lustre.

      “They tell me Jolyon’s bought another house,” said his father’s
      voice close by; “he must have a lot of money—he must have more
      money than he knows what to do with! Montpellier Square, they
      say; close to Soames! They never told me, Irene never tells me
      anything!”

      “Capital position, not two minutes from me,” said the voice of
      Swithin, “and from my rooms I can drive to the Club in eight.”

      The position of their houses was of vital importance to the
      Forsytes, nor was this remarkable, since the whole spirit of
      their success was embodied therein.

      Their father, of farming stock, had come from Dorsetshire near
      the beginning of the century.

      “Superior Dosset Forsyte,” as he was called by his intimates, had
      been a stonemason by trade, and risen to the position of a
      master-builder.

      Towards the end of his life he moved to London, where, building
      on until he died, he was buried at Highgate. He left over thirty
      thousand pounds between his ten children. Old Jolyon alluded to
      him, if at all, as “A hard, thick sort of man; not much
      refinement about him.” The second generation of Forsytes felt
      indeed that he was not greatly to their credit. The only
      aristocratic trait they could find in his character was a habit
      of drinking Madeira.

      Aunt Hester, an authority on family history, described him thus:
      “I don’t recollect that he ever did anything; at least, not in my
      time. He was er—an owner of houses, my dear. His hair about your
      Uncle Swithin’s colour; rather a square build. Tall? No—not very
      tall” (he had been five feet five, with a mottled face); “a
      fresh-coloured man. I remember he used to drink Madeira; but ask
      your Aunt Ann. What was _his_ father? He—er—had to do with the
      land down in Dorsetshire, by the sea.”

      James once went down to see for himself what sort of place this
      was that they had come from. He found two old farms, with a cart
      track rutted into the pink earth, leading down to a mill by the
      beach; a little grey church with a buttressed outer wall, and a
      smaller and greyer chapel. The stream which worked the mill came
      bubbling down in a dozen rivulets, and pigs were hunting round
      that estuary. A haze hovered over the prospect. Down this hollow,
      with their feet deep in the mud and their faces towards the sea,
      it appeared that the primeval Forsytes had been content to walk
      Sunday after Sunday for hundreds of years.

      Whether or no James had cherished hopes of an inheritance, or of
      something rather distinguished to be found down there, he came
      back to town in a poor way, and went about with a pathetic
      attempt at making the best of a bad job.

      “There’s very little to be had out of that,” he said; “regular
      country little place, old as the hills....”

      Its age was felt to be a comfort. Old Jolyon, in whom a desperate
      honesty welled up at times, would allude to his ancestors as:
      “Yeomen—I suppose very small beer.” Yet he would repeat the word
      “yeomen” as if it afforded him consolation.

      They had all done so well for themselves, these Forsytes, that
      they were all what is called “of a certain position.” They had
      shares in all sorts of things, not as yet—with the exception of
      Timothy—in consols, for they had no dread in life like that of 3
      per cent. for their money. They collected pictures, too, and were
      supporters of such charitable institutions as might be beneficial
      to their sick domestics. From their father, the builder, they
      inherited a talent for bricks and mortar. Originally, perhaps,
      members of some primitive sect, they were now in the natural
      course of things members of the Church of England, and caused
      their wives and children to attend with some regularity the more
      fashionable churches of the Metropolis. To have doubted their
      Christianity would have caused them both pain and surprise. Some
      of them paid for pews, thus expressing in the most practical form
      their sympathy with the teachings of Christ.

      Their residences, placed at stated intervals round the park,
      watched like sentinels, lest the fair heart of this London, where
      their desires were fixed, should slip from their clutches, and
      leave them lower in their own estimations.

      There was old Jolyon in Stanhope Place; the Jameses in Park Lane;
      Swithin in the lonely glory of orange and blue chambers in Hyde
      Park Mansions—he had never married, not he—the Soamses in their
      nest off Knightsbridge; the Rogers in Prince’s Gardens (Roger was
      that remarkable Forsyte who had conceived and carried out the
      notion of bringing up his four sons to a new profession. “Collect
      house property, nothing like it,” he would say; “_I_ never did
      anything else”).

      The Haymans again—Mrs. Hayman was the one married Forsyte
      sister—in a house high up on Campden Hill, shaped like a giraffe,
      and so tall that it gave the observer a crick in the neck; the
      Nicholases in Ladbroke Grove, a spacious abode and a great
      bargain; and last, but not least, Timothy’s on the Bayswater
      Road, where Ann, and Juley, and Hester, lived under his
      protection.

      But all this time James was musing, and now he inquired of his
      host and brother what he had given for that house in Montpellier
      Square. He himself had had his eye on a house there for the last
      two years, but they wanted such a price.

      Old Jolyon recounted the details of his purchase.

      “Twenty-two years to run?” repeated James; “The very house I was
      after—you’ve given too much for it!”

      Old Jolyon frowned.

      “It’s not that I want it,” said James hastily; “it wouldn’t suit
      my purpose at that price. Soames knows the house, well—he’ll tell
      you it’s too dear—his opinion’s worth having.”

      “I don’t,” said old Jolyon, “care a fig for his opinion.”

      “Well,” murmured James, “you _will_ have your own way—it’s a good
      opinion. Good-bye! We’re going to drive down to Hurlingham. They
      tell me Jun’s going to Wales. You’ll be lonely tomorrow. What’ll
      you do with yourself? You’d better come and dine with us!”

      Old Jolyon refused. He went down to the front door and saw them
      into their barouche, and twinkled at them, having already
      forgotten his spleen—Mrs. James facing the horses, tall and
      majestic with auburn hair; on her left, Irene—the two husbands,
      father and son, sitting forward, as though they expected
      something, opposite their wives. Bobbing and bounding upon the
      spring cushions, silent, swaying to each motion of their chariot,
      old Jolyon watched them drive away under the sunlight.

      During the drive the silence was broken by Mrs. James.

      “Did you ever see such a collection of rumty-too people?”

      Soames, glancing at her beneath his eyelids, nodded, and he saw
      Irene steal at him one of her unfathomable looks. It is likely
      enough that each branch of the Forsyte family made that remark as
      they drove away from old Jolyon’s “At Home!”

      Amongst the last of the departing guests the fourth and fifth
      brothers, Nicholas and Roger, walked away together, directing
      their steps alongside Hyde Park towards the Praed Street Station
      of the Underground. Like all other Forsytes of a certain age they
