9.
I stop trying to sleep after my first few attempts are
interrupted by unspeakable nightmares. After that, I just lie
still and do fake breathing whenever someone checks on
me. In the morning, I'm released from the hospital and
instructed to take it easy. Cressida asks me to record a
few lines for a new Mockingjay propo. At lunch, I keep
waiting for people to bring up Peeta's appearance, but no
one does. Someone must have seen it besides Finnick
and me.
I have training, but Gale's scheduled to work with
Beetee on weapons or something, so I get permission to
take Finnick to the woods. We wander around awhile and
then ditch our communicators under a bush. When we're a
safe distance away, we sit and discuss Peeta's broadcast.
"I haven't heard one word about it. No one's told you
anything?" Finnick says. I shake my head. He pauses
before he asks, "Not even Gale?" I'm clinging to a shred of
hope that Gale honestly knows nothing about Peeta's
message. But I have a bad feeling he does. "Maybe he's
trying to find a time to tell you privately."
"Maybe," I say.
We stay silent so long that a buck wanders into range. I
take it down with an arrow. Finnick hauls it back to the
fence.
For dinner, there's minced venison in the stew. Gale
walks me back to Compartment E after we eat. When I ask
him what's been going on, again there's no mention of
Peeta. As soon as my mother and sister are asleep, I slip
the pearl from the drawer and spend a second sleepless
night clutching it in my hand, replaying Peeta's words in my
head. "Ask yourself, do you really trust the people you're
working with? Do you really know what's going on? And if
you don't...find out." Find out. What? From who? And how
can Peeta know anything except what the Capitol tells him?
It's just a Capitol propo. More noise. But if Plutarch thinks
it's just the Capitol line, why didn't he tell me about it? Why
hasn't anyone let me or Finnick know?
Under this debate lies the real source of my distress:
Peeta. What have they done to him? And what are they
doing to him right now? Clearly, Snow did not buy the story
that Peeta and I knew nothing about the rebellion. And his
suspicions have been reinforced, now that I have come out
as the Mockingjay. Peeta can only guess about the rebel
tactics or make up things to tell his torturers. Lies, once
discovered, would be severely punished. How abandoned
by me he must feel. In his first interview, he tried to protect
me from the Capitol and rebels alike, and not only have I
failed to protect him, I've brought down more horrors upon
him.
Come morning, I stick my forearm in the wall and stare
groggily at the day's schedule. Immediately after breakfast,
I am slated for Production. In the dining hall, as I down my
hot grain and milk and mushy beets, I spot a communicuff
on Gale's wrist. "When did you get that back, Soldier
Hawthorne?" I ask.
"Yesterday. They thought if I'm going to be in the field
with you, it could be a backup system of communication,"
says Gale.
No one has ever offered me a communicuff. I wonder,
if I asked for one, would I get it? "Well, I guess one of us
has to be accessible," I say with an edge to my voice.
"What's that mean?" he says.
"Nothing. Just repeating what you said," I tell him. "And
I totally agree that the accessible one should be you. I just
hope I still have access to you as well."
Our eyes lock, and I realize how furious I am with Gale.
That I don't believe for a second that he didn't see Peeta's
propo. That I feel completely betrayed that he didn't tell me
about it. We know each other too well for him not to read
my mood and guess what has caused it.
"Katniss--" he begins. Already the admission of guilt is
in his tone.
I grab my tray, cross to the deposit area, and slam the
dishes onto the rack. By the time I'm in the hallway, he's
caught up with me.
"Why didn't you say something?" he asks, taking my
arm.
"Why didn't I?" I jerk my arm free. "Why didn't you,
Gale? And I did, by the way, when I asked you last night
about what had been going on!"
"I'm sorry. All right? I didn't know what to do. I wanted to
tell you, but everyone was afraid that seeing Peeta's propo
would make you sick," he says.
"They were right. It did. But not quite as sick as you
lying to me for Coin." At that moment, his communicuff
starts beeping. "There she is. Better run. You have things to
tell her."
For a moment, real hurt registers on his face. Then
cold anger replaces it. He turns on his heel and goes.
Maybe I have been too spiteful, not given him enough time
to explain. Maybe everyone is just trying to protect me by
lying to me. I don't care. I'm sick of people lying to me for
my own good. Because really it's mostly for their own good.
Lie to Katniss about the rebellion so she doesn't do
anything crazy. Send her into the arena without a clue so we
can fish her out. Don't tell her about Peeta's propo because
it might make her sick, and it's hard enough to get a decent
performance out of her as it is.
I do feel sick. Heartsick. And too tired for a day of
production. But I'm already at Remake, so I go in. Today, I
discover, we will be returning to District 12. Cressida wants
to do unscripted interviews with Gale and me throwing light
on our demolished city.
"If you're both up for that," says Cressida, looking
closely at my face.
"Count me in," I say. I stand, uncommunicative and
stiff, a mannequin, as my prep team dresses me, does my
hair, and dabs makeup on my face. Not enough to show,
only enough to take the edge off the circles under my
sleepless eyes.
Boggs escorts me down to the Hangar, but we don't
talk beyond a preliminary greeting. I'm grateful to be spared
another exchange about my disobedience in 8, especially
since his mask looks so uncomfortable.
At the last moment, I remember to send a message to
my mother about my leaving 13, and stress that it won't be
dangerous. We board a hovercraft for the short ride to 12
and I'm directed to a seat at a table where Plutarch, Gale,
and Cressida are poring over a map. Plutarch's brimming
with satisfaction as he shows me the before/after effects of
the first couple of propos. The rebels, who were barely
maintaining a foothold in several districts, have rallied. They
have actually taken 3 and 11--the latter so crucial since it's
Panem's main food supplier--and have made inroads in
several other districts as well.
"Hopeful. Very hopeful indeed," says Plutarch.
"Fulvia's going to have the first round of We Remember
spots ready tonight, so we can target the individual districts
with their dead. Finnick's absolutely marvelous."
"It's painful to watch, actually," says Cressida. "He
knew so many of them personally."
"That's what makes it so effective," says Plutarch.
"Straight from the heart. You're all doing beautifully. Coin
could not be more pleased."
Gale didn't tell them, then. About my pretending not to
see Peeta and my anger at their cover-up. But I guess it's
too little, too late, because I still can't let it go. It doesn't
matter. He's not speaking to me, either.
It's not until we land in the Meadow that I realize
Haymitch isn't among our company. When I ask Plutarch
about his absence, he just shakes his head and says, "He
couldn't face it."
"Haymitch? Not able to face something? Wanted a
day off, more likely," I say.
"I think his actual words were 'I couldn't face it without a
bottle,'" says Plutarch.
I roll my eyes, long out of patience with my mentor, his
weakness for drink, and what he can or can't confront. But
about five minutes after my return to 12, I'm wishing I had a
bottle myself. I thought I'd come to terms with 12's demise--
heard of it, seen it from the air, and wandered through its
ashes. So why does everything bring on a fresh pang of
grief? Was I simply too out of it before to fully register the
loss of my world? Or is it the look on Gale's face as he
takes in the destruction on foot that makes the atrocity feel
brand-new?
Cressida directs the team to start with me at my old
house. I ask her what she wants me to do. "Whatever you
feel like," she says. Standing back in my kitchen, I don't feel
like doing anything. In fact, I find myself focusing up at the
sky--the only roof left--because too many memories are
drowning me. After a while, Cressida says, "That's fine,
Katniss. Let's move on."
Gale doesn't get off so easily at his old address.
Cressida films him in silence for a few minutes, but just as
he pulls the one remnant of his previous life from the ashes-
-a twisted metal poker--she starts to question him about his
family, his job, life in the Seam. She makes him go back to
the night of the firebombing and reenact it, starting at his
house, working his way down across the Meadow and
through the woods to the lake. I straggle behind the film
crew and the bodyguards, feeling their presence to be a
violation of my beloved woods. This is a private place, a
sanctuary, already corrupted by the Capitol's evil. Even
after we've left behind the charred stumps near the fence,
we're still tripping over decomposing bodies. Do we have
to record it for everyone to see?
By the time we reach the lake, Gale seems to have lost
his ability to speak. Everyone's dripping in sweat--
especially Castor and Pollux in their insect shells--and
Cressida calls for a break. I scoop up handfuls of water
from the lake, wishing I could dive in and surface alone and
naked and unobserved. I wander around the perimeter for a
while. When I come back around to the little concrete house
beside the lake, I pause in the doorway and see Gale
propping the crooked poker he salvaged against the wall
by the hearth. For a moment I have an image of a lone
stranger, sometime far in the future, wandering lost in the
wilderness and coming upon this small place of refuge, with
the pile of split logs, the hearth, the poker. Wondering how
it came to be. Gale turns and meets my eyes and I know
he's thinking about our last meeting here. When we fought
over whether or not to run away. If we had, would District 12
still be there? I think it would. But the Capitol would still be
in control of Panem as well.
Cheese sandwiches are passed around and we eat
them in the shade of the trees. I intentionally sit at the far
edge of the group, next to Pollux, so I don't have to talk. No
one's talking much, really. In the relative quiet, the birds
take back the woods. I nudge Pollux with my elbow and
point out a small black bird with a crown. It hops to a new
branch, momentarily opening its wings, showing off its
white patches. Pollux gestures to my pin and raises his
eyebrows questioningly. I nod, confirming it's a mockingjay.
I hold up one finger to say Wait, I'll show you, and whistle a
birdcall. The mockingjay cocks its head and whistles the
call right back at me. Then, to my surprise, Pollux whistles a
few notes of his own. The bird answers him immediately.
Pollux's face breaks into an expression of delight and he
has a series of melodic exchanges with the mockingjay. My
guess is it's the first conversation he's had in years. Music
draws mockingjays like blossoms do bees, and in a short
while he's got half a dozen of them perched in the branches
over our heads. He taps me on the arm and uses a twig to
write a word in the dirt. SING?
Usually, I'd decline, but it's kind of impossible to say no
to Pollux, given the circumstances. Besides, the
mockingjays' song voices are different from their whistles,
and I'd like him to hear them. So, before I actually think
about what I'm doing, I sing Rue's four notes, the ones she
used to signal the end of the workday in 11. The notes that
ended up as the background music to her murder. The
birds don't know that. They pick up the simple phrase and
bounce it back and forth between them in sweet harmony.
Just as they did in the Hunger Games before the muttations
broke through the trees, chased us onto the Cornucopia,
and slowly gnawed Cato to a bloody pulp--
"Want to hear them do a real song?" I burst out.
Anything to stop those memories. I'm on my feet, moving
back into the trees, resting my hand on the rough trunk of a
maple where the birds perch. I have not sung "The Hanging
Tree" out loud for ten years, because it's forbidden, but I
remember every word. I begin softly, sweetly, as my father
did.
"Are you, are you
Coming to the tree
Where they strung up a man they say
murdered three.
Strange things did happen here
No stranger would it be
If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree."
The mockingjays begin to alter their songs as they
become aware of my new offering.
"Are you, are you
Coming to the tree
Where the dead man called out for his love
to flee.
Strange things did happen here
No stranger would it be
If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree."
I have the birds' attention now. In one more verse,
surely they will have captured the melody, as it's simple and
repeats four times with little variation.
"Are you, are you
Coming to the tree
Where I told you to run, so we'd both be free.
Strange things did happen here
No stranger would it be
If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree."
A hush in the trees. Just the rustle of leaves in the
breeze. But no birds, mockingjay or other. Peeta's right.
They do fall silent when I sing. Just as they did for my father.
"Are you, are you
Coming to the tree
Wear a necklace of rope, side by side with
me.
Strange things did happen here
No stranger would it be
If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree."
The birds are waiting for me to continue. But that's it.
Last verse. In the stillness I remember the scene. I was
home from a day in the woods with my father. Sitting on the
floor with Prim, who was just a toddler, singing "The
Hanging Tree." Making us necklaces out of scraps of old
rope like it said in the song, not knowing the real meaning
of the words. The tune was simple and easy to harmonize
to, though, and back then I could memorize almost anything
set to music after a round or two. Suddenly, my mother
snatched the rope necklaces away and was yelling at my
father. I started to cry because my mother never yelled, and
then Prim was wailing and I ran outside to hide. As I had
exactly one hiding spot--in the Meadow under a
honeysuckle bush--my father found me immediately. He
calmed me down and told me everything was fine, only
we'd better not sing that song anymore. My mother just
wanted me to forget it. So, of course, every word was
immediately, irrevocably branded into my brain.
We didn't sing it anymore, my father and I, or even
speak of it. After he died, it used to come back to me a lot.
Being older, I began to understand the lyrics. At the
beginning, it sounds like a guy is trying to get his girlfriend
to secretly meet up with him at midnight. But it's an odd
place for a tryst, a hanging tree, where a man was hung for
murder. The murderer's lover must have had something to
do with the killing, or maybe they were just going to punish
her anyway, because his corpse called out for her to flee.
That's weird obviously, the talking-corpse bit, but it's not
until the third verse that "The Hanging Tree" begins to get
unnerving. You realize the singer of the song is the dead
murderer. He's still in the hanging tree. And even though he
told his lover to flee, he keeps asking if she's coming to
meet him. The phrase Where I told you to run, so we'd both
be free is the most troubling because at first you think he's
talking about when he told her to flee, presumably to safety.
But then you wonder if he meant for her to run to him. To
death. In the final stanza, it's clear that that's what he's
waiting for. His lover, with her rope necklace, hanging dead
next to him in the tree.
I used to think the murderer was the creepiest guy
imaginable. Now, with a couple of trips to the Hunger
Games under my belt, I decide not to judge him without
knowing more details. Maybe his lover was already
sentenced to death and he was trying to make it easier. To
let her know he'd be waiting. Or maybe he thought the place
he was leaving her was really worse than death. Didn't I
want to kill Peeta with that syringe to save him from the
Capitol? Was that really my only option? Probably not, but I
couldn't think of another at the time.
I guess my mother thought the whole thing was too
twisted for a seven-year-old, though. Especially one who
made her own rope necklaces. It wasn't like hanging was
something that only happened in a story. Plenty of people
were executed that way in 12. You can bet she didn't want
me singing it in front of my music class. She probably
wouldn't like me doing it here for Pollux even, but at least
I'm not--wait, no, I'm wrong. As I glance sideways, I see
Castor has been taping me. Everyone is watching me
intently. And Pollux has tears running down his cheeks
because no doubt my freaky song has dredged up some
terrible incident in his life. Great. I sigh and lean back
against the trunk. That's when the mockingjays begin their
rendition of "The Hanging Tree." In their mouths, it's quite
beautiful. Conscious of being filmed, I stand quietly until I
hear Cressida call, "Cut!"
Plutarch crosses to me, laughing. "Where do you
come up with this stuff? No one would believe it if we made
it up!" He throws an arm around me and kisses me on the
top of my head with a loud smack. "You're golden!"
"I wasn't doing it for the cameras," I say.
"Lucky they were on, then," he says. "Come on,
everybody, back to town!"
As we trudge back through the woods, we reach a
boulder, and both Gale and I turn our heads in the same
direction, like a pair of dogs catching a scent on the wind.
Cressida notices and asks what lies that way. We admit,
without acknowledging each other, it's our old hunting
rendezvous place. She wants to see it, even after we tell
her it's nothing really.
Nothing but a place where I was happy, I think.
Our rock ledge overlooking the valley. Perhaps a little
less green than usual, but the blackberry bushes hang
heavy with fruit. Here began countless days of hunting and
snaring, fishing and gathering, roaming together through
the woods, unloading our thoughts while we filled our game
bags. This was the doorway to both sustenance and sanity.
And we were each other's key.
There's no District 12 to escape from now, no
Peacekeepers to trick, no hungry mouths to feed. The
Capitol took away all of that, and I'm on the verge of losing
Gale as well. The glue of mutual need that bonded us so
tightly together for all those years is melting away. Dark
patches, not light, show in the spaces between us. How can
it be that today, in the face of 12's horrible demise, we are
too angry to even speak to each other?
Gale as good as lied to me. That was unacceptable,
even if he was concerned about my well-being. His apology
seemed genuine, though. And I threw it back in his face
with an insult to make sure it stung. What is happening to
us? Why are we always at odds now? It's all a muddle, but I
somehow feel that if I went back to the root of our troubles,
my actions would be at the heart of it. Do I really want to
drive him away?
My fingers encircle a blackberry and pluck it from its
stem. I roll it gently between my thumb and forefinger.
Suddenly, I turn to him and toss it in his direction. "And may
the odds--" I say. I throw it high so he has plenty of time to
decide whether to knock it aside or accept it.
Gale's eyes train on me, not the berry, but at the last
moment, he opens his mouth and catches it. He chews,
swallows, and there's a long pause before he says "--be
ever in your favor." But he does say it.
Cressida has us sit in the nook in the rocks, where it's
impossible not to be touching, and coaxes us into talking
about hunting. What drove us out into the woods, how we
met, favorite moments. We thaw, begin to laugh a little, as
we relate mishaps with bees and wild dogs and skunks.
When the conversation turns to how it felt to translate our
skill with weapons to the bombing in 8, I stop talking. Gale
just says, "Long overdue."
By the time we reach the town square, afternoon's
sinking into evening. I take Cressida to the rubble of the
bakery and ask her to film something. The only emotion I
can muster is exhaustion. "Peeta, this is your home. None
of your family has been heard of since the bombing. Twelve
is gone. And you're calling for a cease-fire?" I look across
the emptiness. "There's no one left to hear you."
As we stand before the lump of metal that was the
gallows, Cressida asks if either of us has ever been
tortured. In answer, Gale pulls off his shirt and turns his
back to the camera. I stare at the lash marks, and again
hear the whistling of the whip, see his bloody figure hanging
unconscious by his wrists.
"I'm done," I announce. "I'll meet you at the Victor's
Village. Something for...my mother."
I guess I walked here, but the next thing I'm conscious
of is sitting on the floor in front of the kitchen cabinets of our
house in the Victor's Village. Meticulously lining ceramic
jars and glass bottles into a box. Placing clean cotton
bandages between them to prevent breaking. Wrapping
bunches of dried flowers.
Suddenly, I remember the rose on my dresser. Was it
real? If so, is it still up there? I have to resist the temptation
to check. If it's there, it will only frighten me all over again. I
hurry with my packing.
When the cabinets are empty, I rise to find that Gale
has materialized in my kitchen. It's disturbing how
soundlessly he can appear. He's leaning on the table, his
fingers spread wide against the wood grain. I set the box
between us. "Remember?" he asks. "This is where you
kissed me."
So the heavy dose of morphling administered after the
whipping wasn't enough to erase that from his
consciousness. "I didn't think you'd remember that," I say.
"Have to be dead to forget. Maybe even not then," he
tells me. "Maybe I'll be like that man in 'The Hanging Tree.'
Still waiting for an answer." Gale, who I have never seen
cry, has tears in his eyes. To keep them from spilling over, I
reach forward and press my lips against his. We taste of
heat, ashes, and misery. It's a surprising flavor for such a
gentle kiss. He pulls away first and gives me a wry smile. "I
knew you'd kiss me."
"How?" I say. Because I didn't know myself.
"Because I'm in pain," he says. "That's the only way I
get your attention." He picks up the box. "Don't worry,
Katniss. It'll pass." He leaves before I can answer.
I'm too weary to work through his latest charge. I spend
the short ride back to 13 curled up in a seat, trying to ignore
Plutarch going on about one of his favorite subjects--
weapons mankind no longer has at its disposal. High-flying
planes, military satellites, cell disintegrators, drones,
biological weapons with expiration dates. Brought down by
the destruction of the atmosphere or lack of resources or
moral squeamishness. You can hear the regret of a Head
Gamemaker who can only dream of such toys, who must
make do with hovercraft and land-to-land missiles and plain
old guns.
After dropping off my Mockingjay suit, I go straight to
bed without eating. Even so, Prim has to shake me to get
me up in the morning. After breakfast, I ignore my schedule
and take a nap in the supply closet. When I come to,
crawling out from between the boxes of chalk and pencils,
it's dinnertime again. I get an extra-large portion of pea
soup and am headed back to Compartment E when Boggs
intercepts me.
"There's a meeting in Command. Disregard your
current schedule," he says.
"Done," I say.
"Did you follow it at all today?" he asks in
exasperation.
"Who knows? I'm mentally disoriented." I hold up my
wrist to show my medical bracelet and realize it's gone.
"See? I can't even remember they took my bracelet. Why
do they want me in Command? Did I miss something?"
"I think Cressida wanted to show you the Twelve
propos. But I guess you'll see them when they air," he says.
"That's what I need a schedule of. When the propos
air," I say. He shoots me a look but doesn't comment
further.
People have crowded into Command, but they've
saved me a seat between Finnick and Plutarch. The
screens are already up on the table, showing the regular
Capitol feed.
"What's going on? Aren't we seeing the Twelve
propos?" I ask.
"Oh, no," says Plutarch. "I mean, possibly. I don't know
exactly what footage Beetee plans to use."
"Beetee thinks he's found a way to break into the feed
nationwide," says Finnick. "So that our propos will air in the
Capitol, too. He's down working on it in Special Defense
now. There's live programming tonight. Snow's making an
appearance or something. I think it's starting."
The Capitol seal appears, underscored by the anthem.
Then I'm staring directly into President Snow's snake eyes
as he greets the nation. He seems barricaded behind his
podium, but the white rose in his lapel is in full view. The
camera pulls back to include Peeta, off to one side in front
of a projected map of Panem. He's sitting in an elevated
chair, his shoes supported by a metal rung. The foot of his
prosthetic leg taps out a strange irregular beat. Beads of
sweat have broken through the layer of powder on his
upper lip and forehead. But it's the look in his eyes--angry
yet unfocused--that frightens me the most.
"He's worse," I whisper. Finnick grasps my hand, to
give me an anchor, and I try to hang on.
Peeta begins to speak in a frustrated tone about the
need for the cease-fire. He highlights the damage done to
key infrastructure in various districts, and as he speaks,
parts of the map light up, showing images of the
destruction. A broken dam in 7. A derailed train with a pool
of toxic waste spilling from the tank cars. A granary
collapsing after a fire. All of these he attributes to rebel
action.
Bam! Without warning, I'm suddenly on television,
standing in the rubble of the bakery.
Plutarch jumps to his feet. "He did it! Beetee broke in!"
The room's buzzing with reaction when Peeta's back,
distracted. He has seen me on the monitor. He tries to pick
up his speech by moving on to the bombing of a water
purification plant, when a clip of Finnick talking about Rue
replaces him. And then the whole thing breaks down into a
broadcast battle, as the Capitol tech masters try to fend off
Beetee's attack. But they are unprepared, and Beetee,
apparently anticipating he would not hold on to control, has
an arsenal of five- to ten-second clips to work with. We
watch the official presentation deteriorate as it's peppered
with choice shots from the propos.
Plutarch's in spasms of delight and most everybody is
cheering Beetee on, but Finnick remains still and
speechless beside me. I meet Haymitch's eyes from
across the room and see my own dread mirrored back. The
recognition that with every cheer, Peeta slips even farther
from our grasp.
The Capitol seal's back up, accompanied by a flat
audio tone. This lasts about twenty seconds before Snow
and Peeta return. The set is in turmoil. We're hearing frantic
exchanges from their booth. Snow plows forward, saying
that clearly the rebels are now attempting to disrupt the
dissemination of information they find incriminating, but
both truth and justice will reign. The full broadcast will
resume when security has been reinstated. He asks Peeta
if, given tonight's demonstration, he has any parting
thoughts for Katniss Everdeen.
At the mention of my name, Peeta's face contorts in
effort. "Katniss...how do you think this will end? What will be
left? No one is safe. Not in the Capitol. Not in the districts.
And you...in Thirteen..." He inhales sharply, as if fighting for
air; his eyes look insane. "Dead by morning!"
Off camera, Snow orders, "End it!" Beetee throws the
whole thing into chaos by flashing a still shot of me standing
in front of the hospital at three-second intervals. But
between the images, we are privy to the real-life action
being played out on the set. Peeta's attempt to continue
speaking. The camera knocked down to record the white
tiled floor. The scuffle of boots. The impact of the blow that's
inseparable from Peeta's cry of pain.
And his blood as it splatters the tiles.
PART II
"THE ASSAULT"
10
The scream begins in my lower back and works its
way up through my body only to jam in my throat. I am Avox
mute, choking on my grief. Even if I could release the
muscles in my neck, let the sound tear into space, would
anyone notice it? The room's in an uproar. Questions and
demands ring out as they try to decipher Peeta's words.
"And you...in Thirteen...dead by morning!" Yet no one is
asking about the messenger whose blood has been
replaced by static.
A voice calls the others to attention. "Shut up!" Every
pair of eyes falls on Haymitch. "It's not some big mystery!
The boy's telling us we're about to be attacked. Here. In
Thirteen."
"How would he have that information?"
"Why should we trust him?"
"How do you know?"
Haymitch gives a growl of frustration. "They're beating
him bloody while we speak. What more do you need?
Katniss, help me out here!"
I have to give myself a shake to free my words.
"Haymitch's right. I don't know where Peeta got the
information. Or if it's true. But he believes it is. And they're--
" I can't say aloud what Snow's doing to him.
"You don't know him," Haymitch says to Coin. "We do.
Get your people ready."
The president doesn't seem alarmed, only somewhat
perplexed, by this turn in events. She mulls over the words,
tapping one finger lightly on the rim of the control board in
front of her. When she speaks, she addresses Haymitch in
an even voice. "Of course, we have prepared for such a
scenario. Although we have decades of support for the
assumption that further direct attacks on Thirteen would be
counterproductive to the Capitol's cause. Nuclear missiles
would release radiation into the atmosphere, with
incalculable environmental results. Even routine bombing
could badly damage our military compound, which we know
they hope to regain. And, of course, they invite a
counterstrike. It is conceivable that, given our current
alliance with the rebels, those would be viewed as
acceptable risks."
"You think so?" says Haymitch. It's a shade too
sincere, but the subtleties of irony are often wasted in 13.
"I do. At any rate, we're overdue for a Level Five
security drill," says Coin. "Let's proceed with the lockdown."
She begins to type rapidly on her keyboard, authorizing her
decision. The moment she raises her head, it begins.
There have been two low-level drills since I arrived in
13. I don't remember much about the first. I was in intensive
care in the hospital and I think the patients were exempted,
as the complications of removing us for a practice drill
outweighed the benefits. I was vaguely aware of a
mechanical voice instructing people to congregate in yellow
zones. During the second, a Level Two drill meant for minor
crises--such as a temporary quarantine while citizens were
tested for contagion during a flu outbreak--we were
supposed to return to our living quarters. I stayed behind a
pipe in the laundry room, ignored the pulsating beeps
coming over the audio system, and watched a spider
construct a web. Neither experience has prepared me for
the wordless, eardrum-piercing, fear-inducing sirens that
now permeate 13. There would be no disregarding this
sound, which seems designed to throw the whole
population into a frenzy. But this is 13 and that doesn't
happen.
Boggs guides Finnick and me out of Command, along
the hall to a doorway, and onto a wide stairway. Streams of
people are converging to form a river that flows only
downward. No one shrieks or tries to push ahead. Even the
children don't resist. We descend, flight after flight,
speechless, because no word could be heard above this
sound. I look for my mother and Prim, but it's impossible to
see anyone but those immediately around me. They're both
working in the hospital tonight, though, so there's no way
they can miss the drill.
My ears pop and my eyes feel heavy. We are coalmine
deep. The only plus is that the farther we retreat into
the earth, the less shrill the sirens become. It's as if they
were meant to physically drive us away from the surface,
which I suppose they are. Groups of people begin to peel
off into marked doorways and still Boggs directs me
downward, until finally the stairs end at the edge of an
enormous cavern. I start to walk straight in and Boggs
stops me, shows me that I must wave my schedule in front
of a scanner so that I'm accounted for. No doubt the
information's going to some computer somewhere to make
sure no one's gone astray.
The place seems unable to decide if it's natural or
man-made. Certain areas of the walls are stone, while steel
beams and concrete heavily reinforce others. Sleeping
bunks are hewn right into the rock walls. There's a kitchen,
bathrooms, a first-aid station. This place was designed for
an extended stay.
White signs with letters or numbers are placed at
intervals around the cavern. As Boggs tells Finnick and me
to report to the area that matches our assigned quarters--in
my case E for Compartment E--Plutarch strolls up. "Ah,
here you are," he says. Recent events have had little effect
on Plutarch's mood. He still has a happy glow from
Beetee's success on the Airtime Assault. Eyes on the
forest, not on the trees. Not on Peeta's punishment or 13's
imminent blasting. "Katniss, obviously this is a bad moment
for you, what with Peeta's setback, but you need to be
aware that others will be watching you."
"What?" I say. I can't believe he actually just
downgraded Peeta's dire circumstances to a setback.
"The other people in the bunker, they'll be taking their
cue on how to react from you. If you're calm and brave,
others will try to be as well. If you panic, it could spread like
wildfire," explains Plutarch. I just stare at him. "Fire is
catching, so to speak," he continues, as if I'm being slow on
the uptake.
"Why don't I just pretend I'm on camera, Plutarch?" I
say.
"Yes! Perfect. One is always much braver with an
audience," he says. "Look at the courage Peeta just
displayed!"
It's all I can do not to slap him.
"I've got to get back to Coin before lockdown. You
keep up the good work!" he says, and then heads off.
I cross to the big letter E posted on the wall. Our space
consists of a twelve-by-twelve-foot square of stone floor
delineated by painted lines. Carved into the wall are two
bunks--one of us will be sleeping on the floor--and a
ground-level cube space for storage. A piece of white
paper, coated in clear plastic, reads BUNKER PROTOCOL. I
stare fixedly at the little black specks on the sheet. For a
while, they're obscured by the residual blood droplets that I
can't seem to wipe from my vision. Slowly, the words come
into focus. The first section is entitled "On Arrival."
1. Make sure all members of your Compartment are
accounted for.
My mother and Prim haven't arrived, but I was one of
the first people to reach the bunker. Both of them are
probably helping to relocate hospital patients.
2. Go to the Supply Station and secure one pack for
each member of your Compartment. Ready your
Living Area. Return pack(s).
I scan the cavern until I locate the Supply Station, a
deep room set off by a counter. People wait behind it, but
there's not a lot of activity there yet. I walk over, give our
compartment letter, and request three packs. A man
checks a sheet, pulls the specified packs from shelving,
and swings them up onto the counter. After sliding one on
my back and getting a grip on the other two with my hands, I
turn to find a group rapidly forming behind me. "Excuse
me," I say as I carry my supplies through the others. Is it a
matter of timing? Or is Plutarch right? Are these people
modeling their behavior on mine?
Back at our space, I open one of the packs to find a
thin mattress, bedding, two sets of gray clothing, a
toothbrush, a comb, and a flashlight. On examining the
contents of the other packs, I find the only discernible
difference is that they contain both gray and white outfits.
The latter will be for my mother and Prim, in case they have
medical duties. After I make up the beds, store the clothes,
and return the backpacks, I've got nothing to do but observe
the last rule.
3. Await further instructions.
I sit cross-legged on the floor to await. A steady flow of
people begins to fill the room, claiming spaces, collecting
supplies. It won't take long until the place is full up. I wonder
if my mother and Prim are going to stay the night at
wherever the hospital patients have been taken. But, no, I
don't think so. They were on the list here. I'm starting to get
anxious, when my mother appears. I look behind her into a
sea of strangers. "Where's Prim?" I ask.
"Isn't she here?" she replies. "She was supposed to
come straight down from the hospital. She left ten minutes
before I did. Where is she? Where could she have gone?"
I squeeze my lids shut tight for a moment, to track her
as I would prey on a hunt. See her react to the sirens, rush
to help the patients, nod as they gesture for her to descend
to the bunker, and then hesitate with her on the stairs. Torn
for a moment. But why?
My eyes fly open. "The cat! She went back for him!"
"Oh, no," my mother says. We both know I'm right.
We're pushing against the incoming tide, trying to get out of
the bunker. Up ahead, I can see them preparing to shut the
thick metal doors. Slowly rotating the metal wheels on
either side inward. Somehow I know that once they have
been sealed, nothing in the world will convince the soldiers
to open them. Perhaps it will even be beyond their control.
I'm indiscriminately shoving people aside as I shout for
them to wait. The space between the doors shrinks to a
yard, a foot; there are only a few inches left when I jam my
hand through the crack.
"Open it! Let me out!" I cry.
Consternation shows on the soldiers' faces as they
reverse the wheels a bit. Not enough to let me pass, but
enough to avoid crushing my fingers. I take the opportunity
to wedge my shoulder into the opening. "Prim!" I holler up
the stairs. My mother pleads with the guards as I try to
wriggle my way out. "Prim!"
Then I hear it. The faint sound of footsteps on the
stairs. "We're coming!" I hear my sister call.
"Hold the door!" That was Gale.
"They're coming!" I tell the guards, and they slide the
doors open about a foot. But I don't dare move--afraid
they'll lock us all out--until Prim appears, her cheeks flushed
with running, hauling Buttercup. I pull her inside and Gale
follows, twisting an armload of baggage sideways to get it
into the bunker. The doors are closed with a loud and final
clank.
"What were you thinking?" I give Prim an angry shake
and then hug her, squashing Buttercup between us.
Prim's explanation is already on her lips. "I couldn't
leave him behind, Katniss. Not twice. You should have seen
him pacing the room and howling. He'd come back to
protect us."
"Okay. Okay." I take a few breaths to calm myself, step
back, and lift Buttercup by the scruff of the neck. "I should've
drowned you when I had the chance." His ears flatten and
he raises a paw. I hiss before he gets a chance, which
seems to annoy him a little, since he considers hissing his
own personal sound of contempt. In retaliation, he gives a
helpless kitten mew that brings my sister immediately to his
defense.
"Oh, Katniss, don't tease him," she says, folding him
back in her arms. "He's already so upset."
The idea that I've wounded the brute's tiny cat feelings
just invites further taunting. But Prim's genuinely distressed
for him. So instead, I visualize Buttercup's fur lining a pair of
gloves, an image that has helped me deal with him over the
years. "Okay, sorry. We're under the big E on the wall.
Better get him settled in before he loses it." Prim hurries
off, and I find myself face-to-face with Gale. He's holding the
box of medical supplies from our kitchen in 12. Site of our
last conversation, kiss, fallout, whatever. My game bag's
slung across his shoulder.
"If Peeta's right, these didn't stand a chance," he says.
Peeta. Blood like raindrops on the window. Like wet
mud on boots.
"Thanks for...everything." I take our stuff. "What were
you doing up in our rooms?"
"Just double-checking," he says. "We're in Forty-
Seven if you need me."
Practically everyone withdrew to their spaces when the
doors shut, so I get to cross to our new home with at least
five hundred people watching me. I try to appear extra calm
to make up for my frantic crashing through the crowd. Like
that's fooling anyone. So much for setting an example. Oh,
who cares? They all think I'm nuts anyway. One man, who I
think I knocked to the floor, catches my eye and rubs his
elbow resentfully. I almost hiss at him, too.
Prim has Buttercup installed on the lower bunk, draped
in a blanket so that only his face pokes out. This is how he
likes to be when there's thunder, the one thing that actually
frightens him. My mother puts her box carefully in the cube. I
crouch, my back supported by the wall, to check what Gale
managed to rescue in my hunting bag. The plant book, the
hunting jacket, my parents' wedding photo, and the
personal contents of my drawer. My mockingjay pin now
lives with Cinna's outfit, but there's the gold locket and the
silver parachute with the spile and Peeta's pearl. I knot the
pearl into the corner of the parachute, bury it deep in the
recesses of the bag, as if it's Peeta's life and no one can
take it away as long as I guard it.
The faint sound of the sirens cuts off sharply. Coin's
voice comes over the district audio system, thanking us all
for an exemplary evacuation of the upper levels. She
stresses that this is not a drill, as Peeta Mellark, the District
12 victor, has possibly made a televised reference to an
attack on 13 tonight.
That's when the first bomb hits. There's an initial sense
of impact followed by an explosion that resonates in my
innermost parts, the lining of my intestines, the marrow of
my bones, the roots of my teeth. We're all going to die, I
think. My eyes turn upward, expecting to see giant cracks
race across the ceiling, massive chunks of stone raining
down on us, but the bunker itself gives only a slight shudder.
The lights go out and I experience the disorientation of total
darkness. Speechless human sounds--spontaneous
shrieks, ragged breaths, baby whimpers, one musical bit of
insane laughter--dance around in the charged air. Then
there's a hum of a generator, and a dim wavering glow
replaces the stark lighting that is the norm in 13. It's closer
to what we had in our homes in 12, when the candles and
fire burned low on a winter's night.
I reach for Prim in the twilight, clamp my hand on her
leg, and pull myself over to her. Her voice remains steady
as she croons to Buttercup. "It's all right, baby, it's all right.
We'll be okay down here."
My mother wraps her arms around us. I allow myself to
feel young for a moment and rest my head on her shoulder.
"That was nothing like the bombs in Eight," I say.
"Probably a bunker missile," says Prim, keeping her
voice soothing for the cat's sake. "We learned about them
during the orientation for new citizens. They're designed to
penetrate deep in the ground before they go off. Because
there's no point in bombing Thirteen on the surface
anymore."
"Nuclear?" I ask, feeling a chill run through me.
"Not necessarily," says Prim. "Some just have a lot of
explosives in them. But...it could be either kind, I guess."
The gloom makes it hard to see the heavy metal doors
at the end of the bunker. Would they be any protection
against a nuclear attack? And even if they were one
hundred percent effective at sealing out the radiation, which
is really unlikely, would we ever be able to leave this place?
The thought of spending whatever remains of my life in this
stone vault horrifies me. I want to run madly for the door and
demand to be released into whatever lies above. It's
pointless. They would never let me out, and I might start
some kind of stampede.
"We're so far down, I'm sure we're safe," says my
mother wanly. Is she thinking of my father's being blown to
nothingness in the mines? "It was a close call, though.
Thank goodness Peeta had the wherewithal to warn us."
The wherewithal. A general term that somehow
includes everything that was needed for him to sound the
alarm. The knowledge, the opportunity, the courage. And
something else I can't define. Peeta seemed to have been
waging a sort of battle in his mind, fighting to get the
message out. Why? The ease with which he manipulates
words is his greatest talent. Was his difficulty a result of his
torture? Something more? Like madness?
Coin's voice, perhaps a shade grimmer, fills the
bunker, the volume level flickering with the lights.
"Apparently, Peeta Mellark's information was sound and we
owe him a great debt of gratitude. Sensors indicate the first
missile was not nuclear, but very powerful. We expect more
will follow. For the duration of the attack, citizens are to stay
in their assigned areas unless otherwise notified."
A soldier alerts my mother that she's needed in the
first-aid station. She's reluctant to leave us, even though
she'll only be thirty yards away.
"We'll be fine, really," I tell her. "Do you think anything
could get past him?" I point to Buttercup, who gives me
such a halfhearted hiss, we all have to laugh a little. Even I
feel sorry for him. After my mother goes, I suggest, "Why
don't you climb in with him, Prim?"
"I know it's silly...but I'm afraid the bunk might collapse
on us during the attack," she says.
If the bunks collapse, the whole bunker will have given
way and buried us, but I decide this kind of logic won't
actually be helpful. Instead, I clean out the storage cube and
make Buttercup a bed inside. Then I pull a mattress in front
of it for my sister and me to share.
We're given clearance in small groups to use the
bathroom and brush our teeth, although showering has
been canceled for the day. I curl up with Prim on the
mattress, double layering the blankets because the cavern
emits a dank chill. Buttercup, miserable even with Prim's
constant attention, huddles in the cube and exhales cat
breath in my face.
Despite the disagreeable conditions, I'm glad to have
time with my sister. My extreme preoccupation since I
came here--no, since the first Games, really--has left little
attention for her. I haven't been watching over her the way I
should, the way I used to. After all, it was Gale who checked
our compartment, not me. Something to make up for.
I realize I've never even bothered to ask her about how
she's handling the shock of coming here. "So, how are you
liking Thirteen, Prim?" I offer.
"Right now?" she asks. We both laugh. "I miss home
badly sometimes. But then I remember there's nothing left
to miss anymore. I feel safer here. We don't have to worry
about you. Well, not the same way." She pauses, and then
a shy smile crosses her lips. "I think they're going to train
me to be a doctor."
It's the first I've heard of it. "Well, of course, they are.
They'd be stupid not to."
"They've been watching me when I help out in the
hospital. I'm already taking the medic courses. It's just
beginner's stuff. I know a lot of it from home. Still, there's
plenty to learn," she tells me.
"That's great," I say. Prim a doctor. She couldn't even
dream of it in 12. Something small and quiet, like a match
being struck, lights up the gloom inside me. This is the sort
of future a rebellion could bring.
"What about you, Katniss? How are you managing?"
Her fingertip moves in short, gentle strokes between
Buttercup's eyes. "And don't say you're fine."
It's true. Whatever the opposite of fine is, that's what I
am. So I go ahead and tell her about Peeta, his
deterioration on-screen, and how I think they must be killing
him at this very moment. Buttercup has to rely on himself for
a while, because now Prim turns her attention to me. Pulling
me closer, brushing the hair back behind my ears with her
fingers. I've stopped talking because there's really nothing
left to say and there's this piercing sort of pain where my
heart is. Maybe I'm even having a heart attack, but it doesn't
seem worth mentioning.
"Katniss, I don't think President Snow will kill Peeta,"
she says. Of course, she says this; it's what she thinks will
calm me. But her next words come as a surprise. "If he
does, he won't have anyone left you want. He won't have
any way to hurt you."
Suddenly, I am reminded of another girl, one who had
seen all the evil the Capitol had to offer. Johanna Mason,
the tribute from District 7, in the last arena. I was trying to
prevent her from going into the jungle where the jabberjays
mimicked the voices of loved ones being tortured, but she
brushed me off, saying, "They can't hurt me. I'm not like
the rest of you. There's no one left I love."
Then I know Prim is right, that Snow cannot afford to
waste Peeta's life, especially now, while the Mockingjay
causes so much havoc. He's killed Cinna already.
Destroyed my home. My family, Gale, and even Haymitch
are out of his reach. Peeta's all he has left.
"So, what do you think they'll do to him?" I ask.
Prim sounds about a thousand years old when she
speaks.
"Whatever it takes to break you."
11
What will break me?
This is the question that consumes me over the next
three days as we wait to be released from our prison of
safety. What will break me into a million pieces so that I am
beyond repair, beyond usefulness? I mention it to no one,
but it devours my waking hours and weaves itself
throughout my nightmares.
Four more bunker missiles fall over this period, all
massive, all very damaging, but there's no urgency to the
attack. The bombs are spread out over the long hours so
that just when you think the raid is over, another blast sends
shock waves through your guts. It feels more designed to
keep us in lockdown than to decimate 13. Cripple the
district, yes. Give the people plenty to do to get the place
running again. But destroy it? No. Coin was right on that
point. You don't destroy what you want to acquire in the
future. I assume what they really want, in the short term, is to
stop the Airtime Assaults and keep me off the televisions of
Panem.
We receive next to no information about what is
happening. Our screens never come on, and we get only
brief audio updates from Coin about the nature of the
bombs. Certainly, the war is still being waged, but as to its
status, we're in the dark.
Inside the bunker, cooperation is the order of the day.
We adhere to a strict schedule for meals and bathing,
exercise and sleep. Small periods of socialization are
granted to alleviate the tedium. Our space becomes very
popular because both children and adults have a
fascination with Buttercup. He attains celebrity status with
his evening game of Crazy Cat. I created this by accident a
few years ago, during a winter blackout. You simply wiggle
a flashlight beam around on the floor, and Buttercup tries to
catch it. I'm petty enough to enjoy it because I think it makes
him look stupid. Inexplicably, everyone here thinks he's
clever and delightful. I'm even issued a special set of
batteries--an enormous waste--to be used for this purpose.
The citizens of 13 are truly starved for entertainment.
It's on the third night, during our game, that I answer the
question eating away at me. Crazy Cat becomes a
metaphor for my situation. I am Buttercup. Peeta, the thing I
want so badly to secure, is the light. As long as Buttercup
feels he has the chance of catching the elusive light under
his paws, he's bristling with aggression. (That's how I've
been since I left the arena, with Peeta alive.) When the light
