“I liked Diggory,” said Krum abruptly to Harry. “He 
vos alvays polite to me. Alvays. Even though I vos 
from Durmstrang — with Karkaroff,” he added, 
scowling. 

“Have you got a new headmaster yet?” said Harry. 

Krum shrugged. He held out his hand as Fleur had 
done, shook Harry’s hand, and then Ron’s. Ron 
looked as though he was suffering some sort of 
painful internal struggle. Krum had already started 
walking away when Ron burst out, “Can I have your 
autograph?” 



Page | 800 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione turned away, smiling at the horseless 
carriages that were now trundling toward them up the 
drive, as Krum, looking surprised but gratified, signed 
a fragment of parchment for Ron. 



The weather could not have been more different on 
the journey back to King’s Cross than it had been on 
their way to Hogwarts the previous September. There 
wasn’t a single cloud in the sky. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione had managed to get a compartment to 
themselves. Pigwidgeon was once again hidden under 
Ron’s dress robes to stop him from hooting 
continually; Hedwig was dozing, her head under her 
wing, and Crookshanks was curled up in a spare seat 
like a large, furry ginger cushion. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione talked more fully and freely than they had 
all week as the train sped them southward. Harry felt 
as though Dumbledore’s speech at the Leaving Feast 
had unblocked him, somehow. It was less painful to 
discuss what had happened now. They broke off their 
conversation about what action Dumbledore might be 
taking, even now, to stop Voldemort only when the 
lunch trolley arrived. 

When Hermione returned from the trolley and put her 
money back into her schoolbag, she dislodged a copy 
of the Daily Prophet that she had been carrying in 
there. Harry looked at it, unsure whether he really 
wanted to know what it might say, but Hermione, 
seeing him looking at it, said calmly, “There’s nothing 
in there. You can look for yourself, but there’s 
nothing at all. I’ve been checking every day. Just a 
small piece the day after the third task saying you 
won the tournament. They didn’t even mention 
Cedric. Nothing about any of it. If you ask me, Fudge 
is forcing them to keep quiet.” 



Page | 801 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He’ll never keep Rita quiet,” said Harry. “Not on a 
story like this.” 

“Oh, Rita hasn’t written anything at all since the third 
task,” said Hermione in an oddly constrained voice. 
“As a matter of fact,” she added, her voice now 
trembling slightly, “Rita Skeeter isn’t going to be 
writing anything at all for a while. Not unless she 
wants me to spill the beans on her.” 

“What are you talking about?” said Ron. 

“I found out how she was listening in on private 
conversations when she wasn’t supposed to be 
coming onto the grounds,” said Hermione in a rush. 

Harry had the impression that Hermione had been 
dying to tell them this for days, but that she had 
restrained herself in light of everything else that had 
happened. 

“How was she doing it?” said Harry at once. 

“How did you find out?” said Ron, staring at her. 

“Well, it was you, really, who gave me the idea, 

Harry,” she said. 

“Did I?” said Harry, perplexed. “How?” 

“Bugging,” said Hermione happily. 

“But you said they didn’t work — ” 

“Oh not electronic bugs,” said Hermione. “No, you see 
... Rita Skeeter” — Hermione ’s voice trembled with 
quiet triumph — “is an unregistered Animagus. She 
can turn — ” 



Page | 802 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione pulled a small sealed glass jar out of her 
bag. 

“ — into a beetle.” 

“You’re kidding,” said Ron. “You haven’t ... she’s not 



“Oh yes she is,” said Hermione happily, brandishing 
the jar at them. 

Inside were a few twigs and leaves and one large, fat 
beetle. 

“That’s never — you’re kidding — ” Ron whispered, 
lifting the jar to his eyes. 

“No, I’m not,” said Hermione, beaming. “I caught her 
on the windowsill in the hospital wing. Look very 
closely, and you 11 notice the markings around her 
antennae are exactly like those foul glasses she 
wears.” 

Harry looked and saw that she was quite right. He 
also remembered something. 

“There was a beetle on the statue the night we heard 
Hagrid telling Madame Maxime about his mum!” 

“Exactly,” said Hermione. “And Viktor pulled a beetle 
out of my hair after we’d had our conversation by the 
lake. And unless I’m very much mistaken, Rita was 
perched on the windowsill of the Divination class the 
day your scar hurt. She’s been buzzing around for 
stories all year.” 

“When we saw Malfoy under that tree ...” said Ron 
slowly. 



Page | 803 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He was talking to her, in his hand,” said Hermione. 
“He knew, of course. That’s how she’s been getting all 
those nice little interviews with the Slytherins. They 
wouldn’t care that she was doing something illegal, as 
long as they were giving her horrible stuff about us 
and Hagrid.” 

Hermione took the glass jar back from Ron and 
smiled at the beetle, which buzzed angrily against the 
glass. 

“I’ve told her I’ll let her out when we get back to 
London,” said Hermione. “I’ve put an Unbreakable 
Charm on the jar, you see, so she can’t transform. 

And I’ve told her she’s to keep her quill to herself for a 
whole year. See if she can’t break the habit of writing 
horrible lies about people.” 

Smiling serenely, Hermione placed the beetle back 
inside her schoolbag. 

The door of the compartment slid open. 

“Very clever, Granger,” said Draco Malfoy. 

Crabbe and Goyle were standing behind him. All 
three of them looked more pleased with themselves, 
more arrogant and more menacing, than Harry had 
ever seen them. 

“So,” said Malfoy slowly, advancing slightly into the 
compartment and looking slowly around at them, a 
smirk quivering on his lips. “You caught some 
pathetic reporter, and Potter’s Dumbledore’s favorite 
boy again. Big deal.” 

His smirk widened. Crabbe and Goyle leered. 



Page | 804 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Trying not to think about it, are we?” said Malfoy 
softly, looking around at all three of them. “Trying to 
pretend it hasn’t happened?” 

“Get out,” said Harry. 

He had not been this close to Malfoy since he had 
watched him muttering to Crabbe and Goyle during 
Dumbledore’s speech about Cedric. He could feel a 
kind of ringing in his ears. His hand gripped his wand 
under his robes. 

“You’ve picked the losing side, Potter! I warned you! I 
told you you ought to choose your company more 
carefully, remember? When we met on the train, first 
day at Hogwarts? I told you not to hang around with 
riffraff like this!” He jerked his head at Ron and 
Hermione. “Too late now, Potter! They’ll be the first to 
go, now the Dark Lord’s back! Mudbloods and 
Muggle-lovers first! Well — second — Diggory was the 
f— ” 

It was as though someone had exploded a box of 
fireworks within the compartment. Blinded by the 
blaze of the spells that had blasted from every 
direction, deafened by a series of bangs, Harry 
blinked and looked down at the floor. 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were all lying unconscious 
in the doorway. He, Ron, and Hermione were on their 
feet, all three of them having used a different hex. Nor 
were they the only ones to have done so. 

“Thought we’d see what those three were up to,” said 
Fred matter-of-factly, stepping onto Goyle and into 
the compartment. He had his wand out, and so did 
George, who was careful to tread on Malfoy as he 
followed Fred inside. 



Page | 805 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Interesting effect,” said George, looking down at 
Crabbe. “Who used the Furnunculus Curse?” 

“Me,” said Harry. 

“Odd,” said George lightly. “I used Jelly-Legs. Looks 
as though those two shouldn’t be mixed. He seems to 
have sprouted little tentacles all over his face. Well, 
let’s not leave them here, they don’t add much to the 
decor.” 

Ron, Harry, and George kicked, rolled, and pushed 
the unconscious Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle — each of 
whom looked distinctly the worse for the jumble of 
jinxes with which they had been hit — out into the 
corridor, then came back into the compartment and 
rolled the door shut. 

“Exploding Snap, anyone?” said Fred, pulling out a 
pack of cards. 

They were halfway through their fifth game when 
Harry decided to ask them. 

“You going to tell us, then?” he said to George. “Who 
you were blackmailing?” 

“Oh,” said George darkly. “ That 

“It doesn’t matter,” said Fred, shaking his head 
impatiently. “It wasn’t anything important. Not now, 
anyway.” 

“We’ve given up,” said George, shrugging. 

But Harry, Ron, and Hermione kept on asking, and 
finally, Fred said, “All right, all right, if you really 
want to know ... it was Ludo Bagman.” 



Page | 806 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Bagman?” said Harry sharply. “Are you saying he 
was involved in — ” 

“Nah,” said George gloomily. “Nothing like that. 

Stupid git. He wouldn’t have the brains.” 

“Well, what, then?” said Ron. 

Fred hesitated, then said, “You remember that bet we 
had with him at the Quidditch World Cup? About how 
Ireland would win, but Krum would get the Snitch?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry and Ron slowly. 

“Well, the git paid us in leprechaun gold he’d caught 
from the Irish mascots.” 

“So?” 

“So,” said Fred impatiently, “it vanished, didn’t it? By 
next morning, it had gone!” 

“But — it must’ve been an accident, mustn’t it?” said 
Hermione. 

George laughed very bitterly. 

“Yeah, that’s what we thought, at first. We thought if 
we just wrote to him, and told him he’d made a 
mistake, he’d cough up. But nothing doing. Ignored 
our letter. We kept trying to talk to him about it at 
Hogwarts, but he was always making some excuse to 
get away from us.” 

“In the end, he turned pretty nasty,” said Fred. “Told 
us we were too young to gamble, and he wasn’t giving 
us anything.” 



Page | 807 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“So we asked for our money back,” said George 
glowering. 

“He didn’t refuse!” gasped Hermione. 

“Right in one,” said Fred. 

“But that was all your savings!” said Ron. 

“Tell me about it,” said George. “ ’Course, we found 
out what was going on in the end. Lee Jordan’s dad 
had had a bit of trouble getting money off Bagman as 
well. Turns out he’s in big trouble with the goblins. 
Borrowed loads of gold off them. A gang of them 
cornered him in the woods after the World Cup and 
took all the gold he had, and it still wasn’t enough to 
cover all his debts. They followed him all the way to 
Hogwarts to keep an eye on him. He’s lost everything 
gambling. Hasn’t got two Galleons to rub together. 
And you know how the idiot tried to pay the goblins 
back?” 

“How?” said Harry. 

“He put a bet on you, mate,” said Fred. “Put a big bet 
on you to win the tournament. Bet against the 
goblins.” 

“So that’s why he kept trying to help me win!” said 
Harry. “Well — I did win, didn’t I? So he can pay you 
your gold!” 

“Nope,” said George, shaking his head. “The goblins 
play as dirty as him. They say you drew with Diggory, 
and Bagman was betting you’d win outright. So 
Bagman had to run for it. He did run for it right after 
the third task.” 



Page | 808 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




George sighed deeply and started dealing out the 
cards again. 

The rest of the journey passed pleasantly enough; 
Harry wished it could have gone on all summer, in 
fact, and that he would never arrive at King’s Cross . . . 
but as he had learned the hard way that year, time 
will not slow down when something unpleasant lies 
ahead, and all too soon, the Hogwarts Express was 
pulling in at platform nine and three-quarters. The 
usual confusion and noise filled the corridors as the 
students began to disembark. Ron and Hermione 
struggled out past Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, 
carrying their trunks. Harry, however, stayed put. 

“Fred — George — wait a moment.” 

The twins turned. Harry pulled open his trunk and 
drew out his Triwizard winnings. 

“Take it,” he said, and he thrust the sack into 
George’s hands. 

“What?” said Fred, looking flabbergasted. 

“Take it,” Harry repeated firmly. “I don’t want it.” 

“You’re mental,” said George, trying to push it back at 
Harry. 

“No, I’m not,” said Harry. “You take it, and get 
inventing. It’s for the joke shop.” 

“He is mental,” Fred said in an almost awed voice. 

“Listen,” said Harry firmly. “If you don’t take it, I’m 
throwing it down the drain. I don’t want it and I don’t 
need it. But I could do with a few laughs. We could all 



Page | 809 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




do with a few laughs. I’ve got a feeling we’re going to 
need them more than usual before long.” 

“Harry,” said George weakly, weighing the money bag 
in his hands, “there’s got to be a thousand Galleons 
in here.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, grinning. “Think how many 
Canary Creams that is.” 

The twins stared at him. 

“Just don’t tell your mum where you got it ... 
although she might not be so keen for you to join the 
Ministry anymore, come to think of it. ...” 

“Harry,” Fred began, but Harry pulled out his wand. 

“Look,” he said flatly, “take it, or I’ll hex you. I know 
some good ones now. Just do me one favor, okay? 

Buy Ron some different dress robes and say they’re 
from you.” 

He left the compartment before they could say 
another word, stepping over Malfoy, Crabbe, and 
Goyle, who were still lying on the floor, covered in hex 
marks. 

Uncle Vernon was waiting beyond the barrier. Mrs. 
Weasley was close by him. She hugged Harry very 
tightly when she saw him and whispered in his ear, “I 
think Dumbledore will let you come to us later in the 
summer. Keep in touch, Harry.” 

“See you, Harry,” said Ron, clapping him on the back. 

“ ’Bye, Harry!” said Hermione, and she did something 
she had never done before, and kissed him on the 
cheek. 

Page | 810 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry — thanks,” George muttered, while Fred 
nodded fervently at his side. 

Harry winked at them, turned to Uncle Vernon, and 
followed him silently from the station. There was no 
point worrying yet, he told himself, as he got into the 
back of the Dursleys’ car. 

As Hagrid had said, what would come, would come... 
and he would have to meet it when it did. 



Page | 811 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




