
Greyback forced the prisoners to turn again so as to 
place Harry directly beneath the chandelier. 

“Well, boy?” rasped the werewolf. 

Harry was facing a mirror over the fireplace, a great 
gilded thing in an intricately scrolled frame. Through 
the slits of his eyes he saw his own reflection for the 
first time since leaving Grimmauld Place. 



Page | 516 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




His face was huge, shiny, and pink, every feature 
distorted by Hermione’s jinx. His black hair reached 
his shoulders and there was a dark shadow around 
his jaw. Had he not known that it was he who stood 
there, he would have wondered who was wearing his 
glasses. He resolved not to speak, for his voice was 
sure to give him away; yet he still avoided eye contact 
with Draco as the latter approached. 

“Well, Draco?” said Lucius Malfoy. He sounded avid. 
“Is it? Is it Harry Potter?” 

“I can’t — I can’t be sure,” said Draco. He was keeping 
his distance from Greyback, and seemed as scared of 
looking at Harry as Harry was of looking at him. 

“But look at him carefully, look! Come closer!” 

Harry had never heard Lucius Malfoy so excited. 

“Draco, if we are the ones who hand Potter over to the 
Dark Lord, everything will be forgiv — ” 

“Now, we won’t be forgetting who actually caught him, 
I hope, Mr. Malfoy?” said Greyback menacingly. 

“Of course not, of course not!” said Lucius 
impatiently. He approached Harry himself, came so 
close that Harry could see the usually languid, pale 
face in sharp detail even through his swollen eyes. 
With his face a puffy mask, Harry felt as though he 
was peering out from between the bars of a cage. 

“What did you do to him?” Lucius asked Greyback. 
“How did he get into this state?” 

“That wasn’t us.” 

“Looks more like a Stinging Jinx to me,” said Lucius. 

Page | 517 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




His gray eyes raked Harry’s forehead. 



“There’s something there,” he whispered, “it could be 
the scar, stretched tight. ... Draco, come here, look 
properly! What do you think?” 

Harry saw Draco’s face up close now, right beside his 
father’s. They were extraordinarily alike, except that 
while his father looked beside himself with 
excitement, Draco’s expression was full of reluctance, 
even fear. 

“I don’t know,” he said, and he walked away toward 
the fireplace where his mother stood watching. 

“We had better be certain, Lucius,” Narcissa called to 
her husband in her cold, clear voice. “Completely sure 
that it is Potter, before we summon the Dark Lord . . . 
They say this is his” — she was looking closely at the 
blackthorn wand — “but it does not resemble 
Ollivander’s description. ... If we are mistaken, if we 
call the Dark Lord here for nothing . . . Remember 
what he did to Rowle and Dolohov?” 

“What about the Mudblood, then?” growled Greyback. 
Harry was nearly thrown off his feet as the Snatchers 
forced the prisoners to swivel around again, so that 
the light fell on Hermione instead. 

“Wait,” said Narcissa sharply. “Yes — yes, she was in 
Madam Malkin’s with Potter! I saw her picture in the 
Prophett Look, Draco, isn’t it the Granger girl?” 

“I ... maybe ... yeah.” 

“But then, that’s the Weasley boy!” shouted Lucius, 
striding around the bound prisoners to face Ron. “It’s 
them, Potter’s friends — Draco, look at him, isn’t it 
Arthur Weasley’s son, what’s his name — ?” 

Page | 518 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah,” said Draco again, his back to the prisoners. 

“It could be.” 

The drawing room door opened behind Harry. A 
woman spoke, and the sound of the voice wound 
Harry’s fear to an even higher pitch. 

“What is this? What’s happened, Cissy?” 

Bellatrix Lestrange walked slowly around the 
prisoners, and stopped on Harry’s right, staring at 
Hermione through her heavily lidded eyes. 

“But surely,” she said quietly, “this is the Mudblood 
girl? This is Granger?” 

“Yes, yes, it’s Granger!” cried Lucius. “And beside her, 
we think, Potter! Potter and his friends, caught at 
last!” 

“Potter?” shrieked Bellatrix, and she backed away, the 
better to take in Harry. “Are you sure? Well then, the 
Dark Lord must be informed at once!” 

She dragged back her left sleeve: Harry saw the Dark 
Mark burned into the flesh of her arm, and knew that 
she was about to touch it, to summon her beloved 
master — 

“I was about to call him!” said Lucius, and his hand 
actually closed upon Bellatrix’s wrist, preventing her 
from touching the Mark. “I shall summon him, Bella, 
Potter has been brought to my house, and it is 
therefore upon my authority — ” 

“Your authority!” she sneered, attempting to wrench 
her hand from his grasp. “You lost your authority 
when you lost your wand, Lucius! How dare you! Take 
your hands off me!” 

Page | 519 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“This is nothing to do with you, you did not capture 
the boy — ” 

“Begging your pardon, Mr. Malfoy,” interjected 
Greyback, “but it’s us that caught Potter, and it’s us 
that 11 be claiming the gold — ” 

“Gold!” laughed Bellatrix, still attempting to throw off 
her brother-in-law, her free hand groping in her 
pocket for her wand. “Take your gold, filthy 
scavenger, what do I want with gold? I seek only the 
honor of his — of — ” 

She stopped struggling, her dark eyes fixed upon 
something Harry could not see. Jubilant at her 
capitulation, Lucius threw her hand from him and 
ripped up his own sleeve — 

“STOP!” shrieked Bellatrix. “Do not touch it, we shall 
all perish if the Dark Lord comes now!” 

Lucius froze, his index finger hovering over his own 
Mark. Bellatrix strode out of Harry’s limited line of 
vision. 

“What is that?” he heard her say. 

“Sword,” grunted an out-of-sight Snatcher. 

“Give it to me.” 

“It’s not yorn, missus, it’s mine, I reckon I found it.” 

There was a bang and a flash of red light: Harry knew 
that the Snatcher had been Stunned. There was a 
roar of anger from his fellows: Scabior drew his wand. 

“What d’you think you’re playing at, woman?” 



Page | 520 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Stupefyl” she screamed. “Stupefyl” 



They were no match for her, even though there were 
four of them against one of her: She was a witch, as 
Harry knew, with prodigious skill and no conscience. 
They fell where they stood, all except Greyback, who 
had been forced into a kneeling position, his arms 
outstretched. Out of the corners of his eyes Harry saw 
Bellatrix bearing down upon the werewolf, the sword 
of Gryffindor gripped tightly in her hand, her face 
waxen. 

“Where did you get this sword?” she whispered to 
Greyback as she pulled his wand out of his 
unresisting grip. 

“How dare you?” he snarled, his mouth the only thing 
that could move as he was forced to gaze up at her. 

He bared his pointed teeth. “Release me, woman!” 

“Where did you find this sword?” she repeated, 
brandishing it in his face. “Snape sent it to my vault 
in Gringotts!” 

“It was in their tent,” rasped Greyback. “Release me, I 
say!” 

She waved her wand, and the werewolf sprang to his 
feet, but appeared too wary to approach her. He 
prowled behind an armchair, his filthy curved nails 
clutching its back. 

“Draco, move this scum outside,” said Bellatrix, 
indicating the unconscious men. “If you haven’t got 
the guts to finish them, then leave them in the 
courtyard for me.” 

“Don’t you dare speak to Draco like — ” said Narcissa 
furiously, but Bellatrix screamed, 

Page | 521 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Be quiet! The situation is graver than you can 
possibly imagine, Cissy! We have a very serious 
problem!” 

She stood, panting slightly, looking down at the 
sword, examining its hilt. Then she turned to look at 
the silent prisoners. 

“If it is indeed Potter, he must not be harmed,” she 
muttered, more to herself than to the others. “The 
Dark Lord wishes to dispose of Potter himself. . . . But 
if he finds out ... I must ... I must know. ...” 

She turned back to her sister again. 

“The prisoners must be placed in the cellar, while I 
think what to do!” 

“This is my house, Bella, you don’t give orders in my 



“Do it! You have no idea of the danger we are in!” 
shrieked Bellatrix. She looked frightening, mad; a 
thin stream of fire issued from her wand and burned 
a hole in the carpet. 

Narcissa hesitated for a moment, then addressed the 
werewolf. 

“Take these prisoners down to the cellar, Greyback.” 

“Wait,” said Bellatrix sharply. “All except ... except for 
the Mudblood.” 

Greyback gave a grunt of pleasure. 

“No!” shouted Ron. “You can have me, keep me!” 



Page | 522 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Bellatrix hit him across the face; the blow echoed 
around the room. 



“If she dies under questioning, I’ll take you next,” she 
said. “Blood traitor is next to Mudblood in my book. 
Take them downstairs, Greyback, and make sure they 
are secure, but do nothing more to them — yet.” 

She threw Greyback’s wand back to him, then took a 
short silver knife from under her robes. She cut 
Hermione free from the other prisoners, then dragged 
her by the hair into the middle of the room, while 
Greyback forced the rest of them to shuffle across to 
another door, into a dark passageway, his wand held 
out in front of him, projecting an invisible and 
irresistible force. 

“Reckon she’ll let me have a bit of the girl when she’s 
finished with her?” Greyback crooned as he forced 
them along the corridor. “I’d say I’ll get a bite or two, 
wouldn’t you, ginger?” 

Harry could feel Ron shaking. They were forced down 
a steep flight of stairs, still tied back-to-back and in 
danger of slipping and breaking their necks at any 
moment. At the bottom was a heavy door. Greyback 
unlocked it with a tap of his wand, then forced them 
into a dank and musty room and left them in total 
darkness. The echoing bang of the slammed cellar 
door had not died away before there was a terrible, 
drawn-out scream from directly above them. 

“HERMIONE!” Ron bellowed, and he started to writhe 
and struggle against the ropes tying them together, so 
that Harry staggered. “HERMIONE!” 

“Be quiet!” Harry said. “Shut up, Ron, we need to 
work out a way — ” 



Page | 523 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“HERMIONE! HERMIONE!” 



“We need a plan, stop yelling — we need to get these 
ropes off — ” 

“Harry?” came a whisper through the darkness. “Ron? 
Is that you?” 

Ron stopped shouting. There was a sound of 
movement close by them, then Harry saw a shadow 
moving closer. 

“Harry? Ron?” 

“Luna?” 

“Yes, it’s me! Oh no, I didn’t want you to be caught!” 

“Luna, can you help us get these ropes off?” said 
Harry. 

“Oh yes, I expect so. ... There’s an old nail we use if 
we need to break anything. ... Just a moment ...” 

Hermione screamed again from overhead, and they 
could hear Bellatrix screaming too, but her words 
were inaudible, for Ron shouted again, “HERMIONE! 
HERMIONE!” 

“Mr. Ollivander?” Harry could hear Luna saying. “Mr. 
Ollivander, have you got the nail? If you just move 
over a little bit... I think it was beside the water jug. 



She was back within seconds. 
“You’ll need to stay still,” she said. 



Page | 524 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could feel her digging at the rope’s tough fibers 
to work the knots free. From upstairs they heard 
Bellatrix’s voice. 

“I’m going to ask you again! Where did you get this 
sword? Where?” 

“We found it — we found it — PLEASE!” Hermione 
screamed again; Ron struggled harder than ever, and 
the rusty nail slipped onto Harry’s wrist. 

“Ron, please stay still!” Luna whispered. “I can’t see 
what I’m doing — ” 

“My pocket!” said Ron. “In my pocket, there’s a 
Deluminator, and it’s full of light!” 

A few seconds later, there was a click, and the 
luminescent spheres the Deluminator had sucked 
from the lamps in the tent flew into the cellar: Unable 
to rejoin their sources, they simply hung there, like 
tiny suns, flooding the underground room with light. 
Harry saw Luna, all eyes in her white face, and the 
motionless figure of Ollivander the wandmaker, 
curled up on the floor in the corner. Craning around, 
he caught sight of their fellow prisoners: Dean and 
Griphook the goblin, who seemed barely conscious, 
kept standing by the ropes that bound him to the 
humans. 

“Oh, that’s much easier, thanks, Ron,” said Luna, 
and she began hacking at their bindings again. 

“Hello, Dean!” 

From above came Bellatrix’s voice. 

“You are lying, filthy Mudblood, and I know it! You 
have been inside my vault at Gringotts! Tell the truth, 
tell the truth\” 

Page | 525 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Another terrible scream 



“HERMIONE!” 

“What else did you take? What else have you got? Tell 
me the truth or, I swear, I shall run you through with 
this knife!” 

“There!” 

Harry felt the ropes fall away and turned, rubbing his 
wrists, to see Ron running around the cellar, looking 
up at the low ceiling, searching for a trapdoor. Dean, 
his face bruised and bloody, said “Thanks” to Luna 
and stood there, shivering, but Griphook sank onto 
the cellar floor, looking groggy and disoriented, many 
welts across his swarthy face. 

Ron was now trying to Disapparate without a wand. 

“There’s no way out, Ron,” said Luna, watching his 
fruitless efforts. “The cellar is completely escape- 
proof. I tried, at first. Mr. Ollivander has been here for 
a long time, he’s tried everything.” 

Hermione was screaming again: The sound went 
through Harry like physical pain. Barely conscious of 
the fierce prickling of his scar, he too started to run 
around the cellar, feeling the walls for he hardly knew 
what, knowing in his heart that it was useless. 

“What else did you take, what else? ANSWER ME! 
CRUCIO\” 

Hermione ’s screams echoed off the walls upstairs, 

Ron was half sobbing as he pounded the walls with 
his fists, and Harry in utter desperation seized 
Hagrid’s pouch from around his neck and groped 
inside it: He pulled out Dumbledore’s Snitch and 
Page | 526 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




shook it, hoping for he did not know what — nothing 
happened — he waved the broken halves of the 
phoenix wand, but they were lifeless — the mirror 
fragment fell sparkling to the floor, and he saw a 
gleam of brightest blue — 

Dumbledore’s eye was gazing at him out of the mirror. 

“Help us!” he yelled at it in mad desperation. “We’re in 
the cellar of Malfoy Manor, help us!” 

The eye blinked and was gone. 

Harry was not even sure that it had really been there. 
He tilted the shard of mirror this way and that, and 
saw nothing reflected there but the walls and ceiling 
of their prison, and upstairs Hermione was screaming 
worse than ever, and next to him Ron was bellowing, 
“HERMIONE! HERMIONE!” 

“How did you get into my vault?” they heard Bellatrix 
scream. “Did that dirty little goblin in the cellar help 
you?” 

“We only met him tonight!” Hermione sobbed. “We’ve 
never been inside your vault. ... It isn’t the real sword! 
It’s a copy, just a copy! 

“A copy?” screeched Bellatrix. “Oh, a likely story!” 

“But we can find out easily!” came Lucius’s voice. 
“Draco, fetch the goblin, he can tell us whether the 
sword is real or not!” 

Harry dashed across the cellar to where Griphook was 
huddled on the floor. 



Page | 527 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Griphook,” he whispered into the goblin’s pointed 
ear, “you must tell them that sword’s a fake, they 
mustn’t know it’s the real one, Griphook, please — ” 

He could hear someone scuttling down the cellar 
steps; next moment, Draco’s shaking voice spoke 
from behind the door. 

“Stand back. Line up against the back wall. Don’t try 
anything, or I’ll kill you!” 

They did as they were bidden; as the lock turned, Ron 
clicked the Deluminator and the lights whisked back 
into his pocket, restoring the cellar’s darkness. The 
door flew open; Malfoy marched inside, wand held out 
in front of him, pale and determined. He seized the 
little goblin by the arm and backed out again, 
dragging Griphook with him. The door slammed shut 
and at the same moment a loud crack echoed inside 
the cellar. 

Ron clicked the Deluminator. Three balls of light flew 
back into the air from his pocket, revealing Dobby the 
house-elf, who had just Apparated into their midst. 

“DOB — !” 



Harry hit Ron on the arm to stop him shouting, and 
Ron looked terrified at his mistake. Footsteps crossed 
the ceiling overhead: Draco marching Griphook to 
Bellatrix. 

Dobby’s enormous, tennis-ball-shaped eyes were 
wide; he was trembling from his feet to the tips of his 
ears. He was back in the home of his old masters, and 
it was clear that he was petrified. 

“Harry Potter,” he squeaked in the tiniest quiver of a 
voice, “Dobby has come to rescue you.” 

Page | 528 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But how did you — ?” 



An awful scream drowned Harry’s words: Hermione 
was being tortured again. He cut to the essentials. 

“You can Disapparate out of this cellar?” he asked 
Dobby, who nodded, his ears flapping. 

“And you can take humans with you?” 

Dobby nodded again. 

“Right. Dobby, I want you to grab Luna, Dean, and 
Mr. Ollivander, and take them — take them to — ” 

“Bill and Fleur’s,” said Ron. “Shell Cottage on the 
outskirts of Tinworth!” 

The elf nodded for a third time. 

“And then come back,” said Harry. “Can you do that, 
Dobby?” 

“Of course, Harry Potter,” whispered the little elf. He 
hurried over to Mr. Ollivander, who appeared to be 
barely conscious. He took one of the wandmaker’s 
hands in his own, then held out the other to Luna 
and Dean, neither of whom moved. 

“Harry, we want to help you!” Luna whispered. 

“We can’t leave you here,” said Dean. 

“Go, both of you! We’ll see you at Bill and Fleur’s.” 

As Harry spoke, his scar burned worse than ever, and 
for a few seconds he looked down, not upon the 
wandmaker, but on another man who was just as old, 
just as thin, but laughing scornfully. 

Page | 529 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ Kill me, then, Voldemort, I welcome death! But my 
death will not bring you what you seek. . . . There is so 
much you do not understand. ...” 

He felt Voldemort’s fury, but as Hermione screamed 
again he shut it out, returning to the cellar and the 
horror of his own present. 

“Go!” Harry beseeched Luna and Dean. “Go! Well 
follow, just go!” 

They caught hold of the elf’s outstretched fingers. 
There was another loud crack, and Dobby, Luna, 
Dean, and Ollivander vanished. 

“What was that?” shouted Lucius Malfoy from over 
their heads. “Did you hear that? What was that noise 
in the cellar?” 

Harry and Ron stared at each other. 

“Draco — no, call Wormtail! Make him go and check!” 

Footsteps crossed the room overhead, then there was 
silence. Harry knew that the people in the drawing 
room were listening for more noises from the cellar. 

“We’re going to have to try and tackle him,” he 
whispered to Ron. They had no choice: The moment 
anyone entered the room and saw the absence of 
three prisoners, they were lost. “Leave the lights on,” 
Harry added, and as they heard someone descending 
the steps outside the door, they backed against the 
wall on either side of it. 

“Stand back,” came Wormtail’s voice. “Stand away 
from the door. I am coming in.” 



Page | 530 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The door flew open. For a split second Wormtail gazed 
into the apparently empty cellar, ablaze with light 
from the three miniature suns floating in midair. 

Then Harry and Ron launched themselves upon him. 
Ron seized Wormtail’s wand arm and forced it 
upward; Harry slapped a hand to his mouth, muffling 
his voice. Silently they struggled: Wormtail’s wand 
emitted sparks; his silver hand closed around Harry’s 
throat. 

“What is it, Wormtail?” called Lucius Malfoy from 
above. 

“Nothing!” Ron called back, in a passable imitation of 
Wormtail’s wheezy voice. “All fine!” 

Harry could barely breathe. 

“You’re going to kill me?” Harry choked, attempting to 
prise off the metal fingers. “After I saved your life? 

You owe me, Wormtail!” 

The silver fingers slackened. Harry had not expected 
it: He wrenched himself free, astonished, keeping his 
hand over Wormtail’s mouth. He saw the ratlike 
man’s small watery eyes widen with fear and surprise: 
He seemed just as shocked as Harry at what his hand 
had done, at the tiny, merciful impulse it had 
betrayed, and he continued to struggle more 
powerfully, as though to undo that moment of 
weakness. 

“And well have that,” whispered Ron, tugging 
Wormtail’s wand from his other hand. 

Wandless, helpless, Pettigrew’s pupils dilated in 
terror. His eyes had slid from Harry’s face to 
something else. His own silver fingers were moving 
inexorably toward his own throat. 

Page | 531 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No — ” 



Without pausing to think, Harry tried to drag back 
the hand, but there was no stopping it. The silver tool 
that Voldemort had given his most cowardly servant 
had turned upon its disarmed and useless owner; 
Pettigrew was reaping his reward for his hesitation, 
his moment of pity; he was being strangled before 
their eyes. 

“No!” 

Ron had released Wormtail too, and together he and 
Harry tried to pull the crushing metal fingers from 
around Wormtail’s throat, but it was no use. 

Pettigrew was turning blue. 

“Relashiol” said Ron, pointing the wand at the silver 
hand, but nothing happened; Pettigrew dropped to his 
knees, and at the same moment, Hermione gave a 
dreadful scream from overhead. Wormtail’s eyes rolled 
upward in his purple face; he gave a last twitch, and 
was still. 

Harry and Ron looked at each other, then leaving 
Wormtail’s body on the floor behind them, ran up the 
stairs and back into the shadowy passageway leading 
to the drawing room. Cautiously they crept along it 
until they reached the drawing room door, which was 
ajar. Now they had a clear view of Bellatrix looking 
down at Griphook, who was holding Gryffindor’s 
sword in his long-fingered hands. Hermione was lying 
at Bellatrix’s feet. She was barely stirring. 

“Well?” Bellatrix said to Griphook. “Is it the true 
sword?” 

Harry waited, holding his breath, fighting against the 
prickling of his scar. 

Page | 532 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Griphook. “It is a fake.” 

“Are you sure?” panted Bellatrix. “Quite sure?” 

“Yes,” said the goblin. 

Relief broke across her face, all tension drained from 
it. 

“Good,” she said, and with a casual flick of her wand 
she slashed another deep cut into the goblin’s face, 
and he dropped with a yell at her feet. She kicked him 
aside. “And now,” she said in a voice that burst with 
triumph, “we call the Dark Lord!” 

And she pushed back her sleeve and touched her 
forefinger to the Dark Mark. 

At once, Harry’s scar felt as though it had split open 
again. His true surroundings vanished: He was 
Voldemort, and the skeletal wizard before him was 
laughing toothlessly at him; he was enraged at the 
summons he felt — he had warned them, he had told 
them to summon him for nothing less than Potter. If 
they were mistaken . . . 

“Kill me, then!” demanded the old man. “You will not 
win, you cannot win! That wand will never, ever be 
yours — ” 

And Voldemort’s fury broke: A burst of green light 
filled the prison room and the frail old body was lifted 
from its hard bed and then fell back, lifeless, and 
Voldemort returned to the window, his wrath barely 
controllable. ... They would suffer his retribution if 
they had no good reason for calling him back. . . . 

“And I think,” said Bellatrix’s voice, “we can dispose of 
the Mudblood. Greyback, take her if you want her.” 

Page | 533 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“NOOOOOOOOOOOO!” 



Ron had burst into the drawing room; Bellatrix looked 
around, shocked; she turned her wand to face Ron 
instead — 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ he roared, pointing Wormtail’s wand 
at Bellatrix, and hers flew into the air and was caught 
by Harry, who had sprinted after Ron. Lucius, 
Narcissa, Draco, and Greyback wheeled about; Harry 
yelled, “Stupefy\” and Lucius Malfoy collapsed onto 
the hearth. Jets of light flew from Draco’s, Narcissa’s, 
and Greyback’s wands; Harry threw himself to the 
floor, rolling behind a sofa to avoid them. 

“STOP OR SHE DIES!” 

Panting, Harry peered around the edge of the sofa. 
Bellatrix was supporting Hermione, who seemed to be 
unconscious, and was holding her short silver knife 
to Hermione ’s throat. 

“Drop your wands,” she whispered. “Drop them, or 
we’ll see exactly how filthy her blood is!” 

Ron stood rigid, clutching Wormtail’s wand. Harry 
straightened up, still holding Bellatrix’s. 

“I said, drop them!” she screeched, pressing the blade 
into Hermione’s throat: Harry saw beads of blood 
appear there. 

“All right!” he shouted, and he dropped Bellatrix’s 
wand onto the floor at his feet. Ron did the same with 
Wormtail’s. Both raised their hands to shoulder 
height. 

“Good!” she leered. “Draco, pick them up! The Dark 
Lord is coming, Harry Potter! Your death approaches!” 

Page | 534 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry knew it; his scar was bursting with the pain of 
it, and he could feel Voldemort flying through the sky 
from far away, over a dark and stormy sea, and soon 
he would be close enough to Apparate to them, and 
Harry could see no way out. 

“Now,” said Bellatrix softly, as Draco hurried back to 
her with the wands, “Cissy, I think we ought to tie 
these little heroes up again, while Greyback takes 
care of Miss Mudblood. I am sure the Dark Lord will 
not begrudge you the girl, Greyback, after what you 
have done tonight.” 

At the last word there was a peculiar grinding noise 
from above. All of them looked upward in time to see 
the crystal chandelier tremble; then, with a creak and 
an ominous jingling, it began to fall. Bellatrix was 
directly beneath it; dropping Hermione, she threw 
herself aside with a scream. The chandelier crashed 
to the floor in an explosion of crystal and chains, 
falling on top of Hermione and the goblin, who still 
clutched the sword of Gryffindor. Glittering shards of 
crystal flew in all directions: Draco doubled over, his 
hands covering his bloody face. 

As Ron ran to pull Hermione out of the wreckage, 
Harry took his chance: He leapt over an armchair and 
wrested the three wands from Draco’s grip, pointed all 
of them at Greyback, and yelled, “Stupefyl” The 
werewolf was lifted off his feet by the triple spell, flew 
up to the ceiling, and then smashed to the ground. 

As Narcissa dragged Draco out of the way of further 
harm, Bellatrix sprang to her feet, her hair flying as 
she brandished the silver knife; but Narcissa had 
directed her wand at the doorway. 

“Dobby!” she screamed, and even Bellatrix froze. 

“You! You dropped the chandelier — ?” 

Page | 535 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The tiny elf trotted into the room, his shaking finger 
pointing at his old mistress. 

“You must not hurt Harry Potter,” he squeaked. 

“Kill him, Cissy!” shrieked Bellatrix, but there was 
another loud crack, and Narcissa’s wand too flew into 
the air and landed on the other side of the room. 

“You dirty little monkey!” bawled Bellatrix. “How dare 
you take a witch’s wand, how dare you defy your 
masters?” 

“Dobby has no master!” squealed the elf. “Dobby is a 
free elf, and Dobby has come to save Harry Potter and 
his friends!” 

Harry’s scar was blinding him with pain. Dimly he 
knew that they had moments, seconds before 
Voldemort was with them. 

“Ron, catch — and GO!” he yelled, throwing one of the 
wands to him; then he bent down to tug Griphook out 
from under the chandelier. Hoisting the groaning 
goblin, who still clung to the sword, over one 
shoulder, Harry seized Dobby’s hand and spun on the 
spot to Disapparate. 

As he turned into darkness he caught one last view of 
the drawing room: of the pale, frozen figures of 
Narcissa and Draco, of the streak of red that was 
Ron’s hair, and a blur of flying silver, as Bellatrix’s 
knife flew across the room at the place where he was 
vanishing — 

Bill and Fleur’s . . . Shell Cottage . . . Bill and Fleur’s . . . 

He had disappeared into the unknown; all he could 
do was repeat the name of the destination and hope 

Page | 536 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




that it would suffice to take him there. The pain in his 
forehead pierced him, and the weight of the goblin 
bore down upon him; he could feel the blade of 
Gryffindor’s sword bumping against his back; Dobby’s 
hand jerked in his; he wondered whether the elf was 
trying to take charge, to pull them in the right 
direction, and tried, by squeezing the fingers, to 
indicate that that was fine with him. ... 

And then they hit solid earth and smelled salty air. 
Harry fell to his knees, relinquished Dobby’s hand, 
and attempted to lower Griphook gently to the 
ground. 

“Are you all right?” he said as the goblin stirred, but 
Griphook merely whimpered. 

Harry squinted around through the darkness. There 
seemed to be a cottage a short way away under the 
wide starry sky, and he thought he saw movement 
outside it. 

“Dobby, is this Shell Cottage?” he whispered, 
clutching the two wands he had brought from the 
Malfoys’, ready to fight if he needed to. “Have we come 
to the right place? Dobby?” 

He looked around. The little elf stood feet from him. 
“DOBBY!” 

The elf swayed slightly, stars reflected in his wide, 
shining eyes. Together, he and Harry looked down at 
the silver hilt of the knife protruding from the elf’s 
heaving chest. 

“Dobby — no — HELP!” Harry bellowed toward the 
cottage, toward the people moving there. “HELP!” 



Page | 537 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He did not know or care whether they were wizards or 
Muggles, friends or foes; all he cared about was that a 
dark stain was spreading across Dobby’s front, and 
that he had stretched out his thin arms to Harry with 
a look of supplication. Harry caught him and laid him 
sideways on the cool grass. 

“Dobby, no, don’t die, don’t die — ” 

The elf’s eyes found him, and his lips trembled with 
