than a chicken egg. Her face fell when she saw it. 

“Your mum doesn’t read Witch Weekly, by any 
chance, does she, Ron?” she asked quietly. 

“Yeah,” said Ron, whose mouth was full of toffee. 

“Gets it for the recipes.” 

Hermione looked sadly at her tiny egg. 

“Don’t you want to see what Percy’s written?” Harry 
asked her hastily. 

Percy’s letter was short and irritated. 

As I am constantly telling the Daily Prophet, Mr. 

Crouch is taking a well-deserved break. He is sending 
in regular owls with instructions. No, I haven’t actually 
seen him, but I think I can be trusted to know my own 
superior’s handwriting. I have quite enough to do at 
the moment without trying to quash these ridiculous 
rumors. Please don’t bother me again unless it’s 
something important. Happy Easter. 

The start of the summer term would normally have 
meant that Harry was training hard for the last 

Page | 606 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Quidditch match of the season. This year, however, it 
was the third and final task in the Triwizard 
Tournament for which he needed to prepare, but he 
still didn’t know what he would have to do. Finally, in 
the last week of May, Professor McGonagall held him 
back in Transfiguration. 

“You are to go down to the Quidditch field tonight at 
nine o’clock, Potter,” she told him. “Mr. Bagman will 
be there to tell the champions about the third task.” 

So at half past eight that night, Harry left Ron and 
Hermione in Gryffindor Tower and went downstairs. 
As he crossed the entrance hall, Cedric came up from 
the Hufflepuff common room. 

“What d’you reckon it’s going to be?” he asked Harry 
as they went together down the stone steps, out into 
the cloudy night. “Fleur keeps going on about 
underground tunnels; she reckons we’ve got to find 
treasure.” 

“That wouldn’t be too bad,” said Harry, thinking that 
he would simply ask Hagrid for a niffler to do the job 
for him. 

They walked down the dark lawn to the Quidditch 
stadium, turned through a gap in the stands, and 
walked out onto the field. 

“What’ve they done to it?” Cedric said indignantly, 
stopping dead. 

The Quidditch field was no longer smooth and flat. It 
looked as though somebody had been building long, 
low walls all over it that twisted and crisscrossed in 
every direction. 



Page | 607 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re hedges!” said Harry, bending to examine the 
nearest one. 



“Hello there!” called a cheery voice. 

Ludo Bagman was standing in the middle of the field 
with Krum and Fleur. Harry and Cedric made their 
way toward them, climbing over the hedges. Fleur 
beamed at Harry as he came nearer. Her attitude 
toward him had changed completely since he had 
saved her sister from the lake. 

“Well, what d’you think?” said Bagman happily as 
Harry and Cedric climbed over the last hedge. 
“Growing nicely, aren’t they? Give them a month and 
Hagrid’ll have them twenty feet high. Don’t worry,” he 
added, grinning, spotting the less-than-happy 
expressions on Harry’s and Cedric’s faces, “you’ll have 
your Quidditch field back to normal once the task is 
over! Now, I imagine you can guess what we’re 
making here?” 

No one spoke for a moment. Then — 

“Maze,” grunted Krum. 

“That’s right!” said Bagman. “A maze. The third task’s 
really very straightforward. The Triwizard Cup will be 
placed in the center of the maze. The first champion 
to touch it will receive full marks.” 

“We seemply ’ave to get through the maze?” said 
Fleur. 

“There will be obstacles,” said Bagman happily, 
bouncing on the balls of his feet. “Hagrid is providing 
a number of creatures . . . then there will be spells that 
must be broken ... all that sort of thing, you know. 
Now, the champions who are leading on points will 
Page | 608 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




get a head start into the maze.” Bagman grinned at 
Harry and Cedric. “Then Mr. Krum will enter ... then 
Miss Delacour. But you 11 all be in with a fighting 
chance, depending how well you get past the 
obstacles. Should be fun, eh?” 

Harry, who knew only too well the kind of creatures 
that Hagrid was likely to provide for an event like this, 
thought it was unlikely to be any fun at all. However, 
he nodded politely like the other champions. 

“Very well ... if you haven’t got any questions, we’ll go 
back up to the castle, shall we, it’s a bit chilly. ...” 

Bagman hurried alongside Harry as they began to 
wend their way out of the growing maze. Harry had 
the feeling that Bagman was going to start offering to 
help him again, but just then, Krum tapped Harry on 
the shoulder. 

“Could I haff a vord?” 

“Yeah, all right,” said Harry, slightly surprised. 

“Vill you valk vith me?” 

“Okay,” said Harry curiously. 

Bagman looked slightly perturbed. 

“I’ll wait for you, Harry, shall I?” 

“No, it’s okay, Mr. Bagman,” said Harry, suppressing 
a smile, “I think I can find the castle on my own, 
thanks.” 

Harry and Krum left the stadium together, but Krum 
did not set a course for the Durmstrang ship. Instead, 
he walked toward the forest. 

Page | 609 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What ’re we going this way for?” said Harry as they 
passed Hagrid’s cabin and the illuminated 
Beauxbatons carriage. 

“Don’t vant to be overheard,” said Krum shortly. 

When at last they had reached a quiet stretch of 
ground a short way from the Beauxbatons horses’ 
paddock, Krum stopped in the shade of the trees and 
turned to face Harry. 

“I vant to know,” he said, glowering, “vot there is 
between you and Hermy-own-ninny.” 

Harry, who from Krum’s secretive manner had 
expected something much more serious than this, 
stared up at Krum in amazement. 

“Nothing,” he said. But Krum glowered at him, and 
Harry, somehow struck anew by how tall Krum was, 
elaborated. “We’re friends. She’s not my girlfriend and 
she never has been. It’s just that Skeeter woman 
making things up.” 

“Hermy-own-ninny talks about you very often,” said 
Krum, looking suspiciously at Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “because we’re friends.” 

He couldn’t quite believe he was having this 
conversation with Viktor Krum, the famous 
International Quidditch player. It was as though the 
eighteen-year-old Krum thought he, Harry, was an 
equal — a real rival — 

“You haff never ... you haff not ...” 

“No,” said Harry very firmly. 



Page | 610 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Krum looked slightly happier. He stared at Harry for a 
few seconds, then said, “You fly very veil. I vos 
votching at the first task.” 

“Thanks,” said Harry, grinning broadly and suddenly 
feeling much taller himself. “I saw you at the 
Quidditch World Cup. The Wronski Feint, you really 



But something moved behind Krum in the trees, and 
Harry, who had some experience of the sort of thing 
that lurked in the forest, instinctively grabbed Krum’s 
arm and pulled him around. 

“Vot is it?” 

Harry shook his head, staring at the place where he’d 
seen movement. He slipped his hand inside his robes, 
reaching for his wand. 

Suddenly a man staggered out from behind a tall oak. 
For a moment, Harry didn’t recognize him ... then he 
realized it was Mr. Crouch. 

He looked as though he had been traveling for days. 
The knees of his robes were ripped and bloody, his 
face scratched; he was unshaven and gray with 
exhaustion. His neat hair and mustache were both in 
need of a wash and a trim. His strange appearance, 
however, was nothing to the way he was behaving. 
Muttering and gesticulating, Mr. Crouch appeared to 
be talking to someone that he alone could see. He 
reminded Harry vividly of an old tramp he had seen 
once when out shopping with the Dursleys. That man 
too had been conversing wildly with thin air; Aunt 
Petunia had seized Dudley’s hand and pulled him 
across the road to avoid him; Uncle Vernon had then 
treated the family to a long rant about what he would 
like to do with beggars and vagrants. 

Page | 611 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




“Vosn’t he a judge?” said Krum, staring at Mr. 

Crouch. “Isn’t he vith your Ministry?” 

Harry nodded, hesitated for a moment, then walked 
slowly toward Mr. Crouch, who did not look at him, 
but continued to talk to a nearby tree. 

"... and when you’ve done that, Weatherby, send an 
owl to Dumbledore confirming the number of 
Durmstrang students who will be attending the 
tournament, Karkaroff has just sent word there will 
be twelve. ...” 

“Mr. Crouch?” said Harry cautiously. 

"... and then send another owl to Madame Maxime, 
because she might want to up the number of 
students she’s bringing, now Karkaroff’s made it a 
round dozen ... do that, Weatherby, will you? Will 
you? Will...” 

Mr. Crouch’s eyes were bulging. He stood staring at 
the tree, muttering soundlessly at it. Then he 
staggered sideways and fell to his knees. 

“Mr. Crouch?” Harry said loudly. “Are you all right?” 

Crouch’s eyes were rolling in his head. Harry looked 
around at Krum, who had followed him into the trees, 
and was looking down at Crouch in alarm. 

“Vot is wrong with him?” 

“No idea,” Harry muttered. “Listen, you’d better go 
and get someone — ” 

“Dumbledore!” gasped Mr. Crouch. He reached out 
and seized a handful of Harry’s robes, dragging him 



Page | 612 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




closer, though his eyes were staring over Harry’s 
head. “I need ... see ... Dumbledore. ...” 

“Okay,” said Harry, “if you get up, Mr. Crouch, we can 
go up to the — ” 

“I’ve done ... stupid ... thing ...” Mr. Crouch breathed. 
He looked utterly mad. His eyes were rolling and 
bulging, and a trickle of spittle was sliding down his 
chin. Every word he spoke seemed to cost him a 
terrible effort. “Must ... tell ... Dumbledore ...” 

“Get up, Mr. Crouch,” said Harry loudly and clearly. 
“Get up, I’ll take you to Dumbledore!” 

Mr. Crouch’s eyes rolled forward onto Harry. 

“Who ... you?” he whispered. 

“I’m a student at the school,” said Harry, looking 
around at Krum for some help, but Krum was 
hanging back, looking extremely nervous. 

“You’re not ... his?” whispered Crouch, his mouth 
sagging. 

“No,” said Harry, without the faintest idea what 
Crouch was talking about. 

“Dumbledore ’s?” 

“That’s right,” said Harry. 

Crouch was pulling him closer; Harry tried to loosen 
Crouch’s grip on his robes, but it was too powerful. 

“Warn ... Dumbledore ...” 



Page | 613 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll get Dumbledore if you let go of me,” said Harry. 
“Just let go, Mr. Crouch, and I’ll get him. ...” 

“Thank you, Weatherby, and when you have done 
that, I would like a cup of tea. My wife and son will be 
arriving shortly, we are attending a concert tonight 
with Mr. and Mrs. Fudge.” 

Crouch was now talking fluently to a tree again, and 
seemed completely unaware that Harry was there, 
which surprised Harry so much he didn’t notice that 
Crouch had released him. 

“Yes, my son has recently gained twelve O.W.L.s, 
most satisfactory, yes, thank you, yes, very proud 
indeed. Now, if you could bring me that memo from 
the Andorran Minister of Magic, I think I will have 
time to draft a response. ...” 

“You stay here with him!” Harry said to Krum. “I’ll get 
Dumbledore, I’ll be quicker, I know where his office is 



“He is mad,” said Krum doubtfully, staring down at 
Crouch, who was still gabbling to the tree, apparently 
convinced it was Percy. 

“Just stay with him,” said Harry, starting to get up, 
but his movement seemed to trigger another abrupt 
change in Mr. Crouch, who seized him hard around 
the knees and pulled Harry back to the ground. 

“Don’t ... leave ... me!” he whispered, his eyes bulging 
again. “I ... escaped . . . must warn . . . must tell . . . see 
Dumbledore . . . my fault ... all my fault . . . Bertha . . . 
dead ... all my fault . . . my son . . . my fault . . . tell 
Dumbledore . . . Harry Potter . . . the Dark Lord . . . 
stronger ... Harry Potter ...” 



Page | 614 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll get Dumbledore if you let me go, Mr. Crouch!” 
said Harry. He looked furiously around at Krum. 

“Help me, will you?” 

Looking extremely apprehensive, Krum moved 
forward and squatted down next to Mr. Crouch. 

“Just keep him here,” said Harry, pulling himself free 
of Mr. Crouch. “I’ll be back with Dumbledore.” 

“Hurry, von’t you?” Krum called after him as Harry 
sprinted away from the forest and up through the 
dark grounds. They were deserted; Bagman, Cedric, 
and Fleur had disappeared. Harry tore up the stone 
steps, through the oak front doors, and off up the 
marble staircase, toward the second floor. 

Five minutes later he was hurtling toward a stone 
gargoyle standing halfway along an empty corridor. 

“Sher — sherbet lemon!” he panted at it. 

This was the password to the hidden staircase to 
Dumbledore ’s office — or at least, it had been two 
years ago. The password had evidently changed, 
however, for the stone gargoyle did not spring to life 
and jump aside, but stood frozen, glaring at Harry 
malevolently. 

“Move!” Harry shouted at it. “C’mon!” 

But nothing at Hogwarts had ever moved just because 
he shouted at it; he knew it was no good. He looked 
up and down the dark corridor. Perhaps Dumbledore 
was in the staffroom? He started running as fast as 
he could toward the staircase — 

“POTTER!” 



Page | 615 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry skidded to a halt and looked around. Snape 
had just emerged from the hidden staircase behind 
the stone gargoyle. The wall was sliding shut behind 
him even as he beckoned Harry back toward him. 

“What are you doing here, Potter?” 

“I need to see Professor Dumbledore!” said Harry, 
running back up the corridor and skidding to a 
standstill in front of Snape instead. “It’s Mr. Crouch 
... he’s just turned up ... he’s in the forest ... he’s 
asking — ” 

“What is this rubbish?” said Snape, his black eyes 
glittering. “What are you talking about?” 

“Mr. Crouch!” Harry shouted. “From the Ministry! 

He’s ill or something — he’s in the forest, he wants to 
see Dumbledore! Just give me the password up to — ” 

“The headmaster is busy, Potter,” said Snape, his thin 
mouth curling into an unpleasant smile. 

“I’ve got to tell Dumbledore!” Harry yelled. 

“Didn’t you hear me, Potter?” 

Harry could tell Snape was thoroughly enjoying 
himself, denying Harry the thing he wanted when he 
was so panicky. 

“Look,” said Harry angrily, “Crouch isn’t right — he’s 
— he’s out of his mind — he says he wants to warn — 



The stone wall behind Snape slid open. Dumbledore 
was standing there, wearing long green robes and a 
mildly curious expression. “Is there a problem?” he 
said, looking between Harry and Snape. 

Page | 616 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor!” Harry said, sidestepping Snape before 
Snape could speak, “Mr. Crouch is here — he’s down 
in the forest, he wants to speak to you!” 

Harry expected Dumbledore to ask questions, but to 
his relief, Dumbledore did nothing of the sort. 

“Lead the way,” he said promptly, and he swept off 
along the corridor behind Harry, leaving Snape 
standing next to the gargoyle and looking twice as 
ugly. 

“What did Mr. Crouch say, Harry?” said Dumbledore 
as they walked swiftly down the marble staircase. 

“Said he wants to warn you ... said he’s done 
something terrible ... he mentioned his son . . . and 
Bertha Jorkins ... and — and Voldemort ... something 
about Voldemort getting stronger. ...” 

“Indeed,” said Dumbledore, and he quickened his 
pace as they hurried out into the pitch-darkness. 

“He’s not acting normally,” Harry said, hurrying along 
beside Dumbledore. “He doesn’t seem to know where 
he is. He keeps talking like he thinks Percy Weasley’s 
there, and then he changes, and says he needs to see 
you. ... I left him with Viktor Krum.” 

“You did?” said Dumbledore sharply, and he began to 
take longer strides still, so that Harry was running to 
keep up. “Do you know if anybody else saw Mr. 
Crouch?” 

“No,” said Harry. “Krum and I were talking, Mr. 
Bagman had just finished telling us about the third 
task, we stayed behind, and then we saw Mr. Crouch 
coming out of the forest — ” 



Page | 617 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Where are they?” said Dumbledore as the 
Beauxbatons carriage emerged from the darkness. 

“Over here,” said Harry, moving in front of 
Dumbledore, leading the way through the trees. He 
couldn’t hear Crouch’s voice anymore, but he knew 
where he was going; it hadn’t been much past the 
Beauxbatons carriage ... somewhere around here. ... 

“Viktor?” Harry shouted. 

No one answered. 

“They were here,” Harry said to Dumbledore. “They 
were definitely somewhere around here. ...” 

“Lumos,” Dumbledore said, lighting his wand and 
holding it up. 

Its narrow beam traveled from black trunk to black 
trunk, illuminating the ground. And then it fell upon 
a pair of feet. 

Harry and Dumbledore hurried forward. Krum was 
sprawled on the forest floor. He seemed to be 
unconscious. There was no sign at all of Mr. Crouch. 
Dumbledore bent over Krum and gently lifted one of 
his eyelids. 

“Stunned,” he said softly. His half-moon glasses 
glittered in the wandlight as he peered around at the 
surrounding trees. 

“Should I go and get someone?” said Harry. “Madam 
Pomfrey?” 

“No,” said Dumbledore swiftly. “Stay here.” 



Page | 618 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He raised his wand into the air and pointed it in the 
direction of Hagrid ’s cabin. Harry saw something 
silvery dart out of it and streak away through the 
trees like a ghostly bird. Then Dumbledore bent over 
Krum again, pointed his wand at him, and muttered, 
“Renneruate.” 

Krum opened his eyes. He looked dazed. When he saw 
Dumbledore, he tried to sit up, but Dumbledore put a 
hand on his shoulder and made him lie still. 

“He attacked me!” Krum muttered, putting a hand up 
to his head. “The old madman attacked me! I vos 
looking around to see vare Potter had gone and he 
attacked from behind!” 

“Lie still for a moment,” Dumbledore said. 

The sound of thunderous footfalls reached them, and 
Hagrid came panting into sight with Fang at his 
heels. He was carrying his crossbow. 

“Professor Dumbledore!” he said, his eyes widening. 
“Harry — what the — ?” 

“Hagrid, I need you to fetch Professor Karkaroff,” said 
Dumbledore. “His student has been attacked. When 
you’ve done that, kindly alert Professor Moody — ” 

“No need, Dumbledore,” said a wheezy growl. “I’m 
here.” 

Moody was limping toward them, leaning on his staff, 
his wand lit. 

“Damn leg,” he said furiously. “Would’ve been here 
quicker ... what’s happened? Snape said something 
about Crouch — ” 



Page | 619 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Crouch?” said Hagrid blankly. 

“Karkaroff, please, Hagrid!” said Dumbledore sharply. 

“Oh yeah ... right y’are, Professor ...” said Hagrid, and 
he turned and disappeared into the dark trees, Fang 
trotting after him. 

“I don’t know where Barty Crouch is,” Dumbledore 
told Moody, “but it is essential that we find him.” 

“I’m onto it,” growled Moody, and he pulled out his 
wand and limped off into the forest. 

Neither Dumbledore nor Harry spoke again until they 
heard the unmistakable sounds of Hagrid and Fang 
returning. Karkaroff was hurrying along behind them. 
He was wearing his sleek silver furs, and he looked 
pale and agitated. 

“What is this?” he cried when he saw Krum on the 
ground and Dumbledore and Harry beside him. 
“What’s going on?” 

“I vos attacked!” said Krum, sitting up now and 
rubbing his head. “Mr. Crouch or votever his name — 



“Crouch attacked you? Crouch attacked you? The 
Triwizard judge?” 

“Igor,” Dumbledore began, but Karkaroff had drawn 
himself up, clutching his furs around him, looking 
livid. 

“Treachery!” he bellowed, pointing at Dumbledore. “It 
is a plot! You and your Ministry of Magic have lured 
me here under false pretenses, Dumbledore! This is 
not an equal competition! First you sneak Potter into 

Page | 620 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the tournament, though he is underage! Now one of 
your Ministry friends attempts to put my champion 
out of action! I smell double-dealing and corruption in 
this whole affair, and you, Dumbledore, you, with 
your talk of closer international wizarding links, of 
rebuilding old ties, of forgetting old differences — 
here’s what I think of you!” 

Karkaroff spat onto the ground at Dumbledore’s feet. 
In one swift movement, Hagrid seized the front of 
Karkaroff’s furs, lifted him into the air, and slammed 
him against a nearby tree. 

“Apologize!” Hagrid snarled as Karkaroff gasped for 
breath, Hagrid’s massive fist at his throat, his feet 
dangling in midair. 

“Hagrid, no\” Dumbledore shouted, his eyes flashing. 

Hagrid removed the hand pinning Karkaroff to the 
tree, and Karkaroff slid all the way down the trunk 
and slumped in a huddle at its roots; a few twigs and 
leaves showered down upon his head. 

“Kindly escort Harry back up to the castle, Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore sharply. 

Breathing heavily, Hagrid gave Karkaroff a glowering 
look. 

“Maybe I’d better stay here, Headmaster. ...” 

“You will take Harry back to school, Hagrid,” 
Dumbledore repeated firmly. “Take him right up to 
Gryffindor Tower. And Harry — I want you to stay 
there. Anything you might want to do — any owls you 
might want to send — they can wait until morning, do 
you understand me?” 



Page | 621 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — yes,” said Harry, staring at him. How had 
Dumbledore known that, at that very moment, he had 
been thinking about sending Pigwidgeon straight to 
Sirius, to tell him what had happened? 

“Ill leave Fang with yeh, Headmaster,” Hagrid said, 
staring menacingly at Karkaroff, who was still 
sprawled at the foot of the tree, tangled in furs and 
tree roots. “Stay, Fang. C’mon, Harry.” 

They marched in silence past the Beauxbatons 
carriage and up toward the castle. 

“How dare he,” Hagrid growled as they strode past the 
lake. “How dare he accuse Dumbledore. Like 
Dumbledore ’d do anythin’ like that. Like Dumbledore 
wanted you in the tournament in the firs’ place. 
Worried! I dunno when I seen Dumbledore more 
worried than he’s bin lately. An’ you!” Hagrid 
suddenly said angrily to Harry, who looked up at him, 
taken aback. “What were yeh doin’, wanderin’ off with 
ruddy Krum? He’s from Durmstrang, Harry! Coulda 
jinxed yeh right there, couldn’ he? Hasn’ Moody 
taught yeh nothin’? ’Magine lettin’ him lure yeh off on 
yer own — ” 

“Krum’s all right!” said Harry as they climbed the 
steps into the entrance hall. “He wasn’t trying to jinx 
me, he just wanted to talk about Hermione — ” 

“I’ll be havin’ a few words with her, an’ all,” said 
Hagrid grimly, stomping up the stairs. “The less you 
lot ’ave ter do with these foreigners, the happier yeh’ll 
be. Yeh can’ trust any of ’em.” 

“You were getting on all right with Madame Maxime,” 
Harry said, annoyed. 



Page | 622 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’ you talk ter me abou’ her!” said Hagrid, and he 
looked quite frightening for a moment. “I’ve got her 
number now! Tryin’ ter get back in me good books, 
tryin’ ter get me ter tell her what’s cornin’ in the third 
task. Ha! You can’ trust any of ’em!” 

Hagrid was in such a bad mood, Harry was quite glad 
to say good-bye to him in front of the Fat Lady. He 
clambered through the portrait hole into the common 
room and hurried straight for the corner where Ron 
and Hermione were sitting, to tell them what had 
happened. 



Page | 623 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




z? 




THE DREAM 

“It comes down to this,” said Hermione, rubbing her 
forehead. “Either Mr. Crouch attacked Viktor, or 
somebody else attacked both of them when Viktor 
wasn’t looking.” 

“It must’ve been Crouch,” said Ron at once. “That’s 
why he was gone when Harry and Dumbledore got 
there. He’d done a runner.” 

“I don’t think so,” said Harry, shaking his head. “He 
seemed really weak — I don’t reckon he was up to 
Disapparating or anything.” 

“You can’t Disapparate on the Hogwarts grounds, 
haven’t I told you enough times?” said Hermione. 

“Okay ... how’s this for a theory,” said Ron excitedly. 
“Krum attacked Crouch — no, wait for it — and then 
Stunned himself!” 

“And Mr. Crouch evaporated, did he?” said Hermione 
coldly. 

Page | 624 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“Oh yeah ...” 



It was daybreak. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had crept 
out of their dormitories very early and hurried up to 
the Owlery together to send a note to Sirius. Now they 
were standing looking out at the misty grounds. All 
three of them were puffy-eyed and pale because they 
had been talking late into the night about Mr. 

Crouch. 

“Just go through it again, Harry,” said Hermione. 
“What did Mr. Crouch actually say?” 

“I’ve told you, he wasn’t making much sense,” said 
Harry. “He said he wanted to warn Dumbledore about 
something. He definitely mentioned Bertha Jorkins, 
and he seemed to think she was dead. He kept saying 
stuff was his fault. ... He mentioned his son.” 

“Well, that was his fault,” said Hermione testily. 

“He was out of his mind,” said Harry. “Half the time 
he seemed to think his wife and son were still alive, 
and he kept talking to Percy about work and giving 
him instructions.” 

“And ... remind me what he said about You-Know- 
Who?” said Ron tentatively. 

“I’ve told you,” Harry repeated dully. “He said he’s 
getting stronger.” 

There was a pause. Then Ron said in a falsely 
confident voice, “But he was out of his mind, like you 
said, so half of it was probably just raving. ...” 

“He was sanest when he was trying to talk about 
Voldemort,” said Harry, and Ron winced at the sound 
of the name. “He was having real trouble stringing 

Page | 625 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




two words together, but that was when he seemed to 
know where he was, and know what he wanted to do. 
He just kept saying he had to see Dumbledore.” 

Harry turned away from the window and stared up 
into the rafters. The many perches were half-empty; 
every now and then, another owl would swoop in 
through one of the windows, returning from its night’s 
hunting with a mouse in its beak. 

“If Snape hadn’t held me up,” Harry said bitterly, “we 
might’ve got there in time. The headmaster is busy, 
Potter ... what’s this rubbish, Potter?’ Why couldn’t he 
have just got out of the way?” 

“Maybe he didn’t want you to get there!” said Ron 
quickly. “Maybe — hang on — how fast d’you reckon 
he could’ve gotten down to the forest? D’you reckon 
he could’ve beaten you and Dumbledore there?” 

“Not unless he can turn himself into a bat or 
something,” said Harry. 

“Wouldn’t put it past him,” Ron muttered. 

“We need to see Professor Moody,” said Hermione. 

“We need to find out whether he found Mr. Crouch.” 

“If he had the Marauder’s Map on him, it would’ve 
been easy,” said Harry. 

“Unless Crouch was already outside the grounds,” 
said Ron, “because it only shows up to the 
boundaries, doesn’t — ” 

“Shh!” said Hermione suddenly. 



Page | 626 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Somebody was climbing the steps up to the Owlery. 
Harry could hear two voices arguing, coming closer 
and closer. 

“ — that’s blackmail, that is, we could get into a lot of 
trouble for that — ” 

“ — we’ve tried being polite; it’s time to play dirty, like 
him. He wouldn’t like the Ministry of Magic knowing 
what he did — ” 

“I’m telling you, if you put that in writing, it’s 
blackmail!” 

“Yeah, and you won’t be complaining if we get a nice 
fat payoff, will you?” 

The Owlery door banged open. Fred and George came 
over the threshold, then froze at the sight of Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione. 

“What’re you doing here?” Ron and Fred said at the 
same time. 

“Sending a letter,” said Harry and George in unison. 
“What, at this time?” said Hermione and Fred. 

Fred grinned. 
