caught a glimpse of the Hog’s Head down its side 
street, the severed boar’s head sign creaking in the 
wintry wind. Flecks of snow hit the large window at 
the front of the bus. At last they rolled to a halt 
outside the gates to Hogwarts. 

Lupin and Tonks helped them off the bus with their 
luggage and then got off to say good-bye. Harry 
glanced up at the three decks of the Knight Bus and 
saw all the passengers staring down at them, noses 
flat against the windows. 

Page | 672Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ll be safe once you’re in the grounds,” said 
Tonks, casting a careful eye around at the deserted 
road. “Have a good term, okay?” 

“Look after yourselves,” said Lupin, shaking hands all 
round and reaching Harry last. “And listen ...” He 
lowered his voice while the rest of them exchanged 
last-minute good-byes with Tonks, “Harry, I know you 
don’t like Snape, but he is a superb Occlumens and 
we all — Sirius included — want you to learn to 
protect yourself, so work hard, all right?” 

“Yeah, all right,” said Harry heavily, looking up into 
Lupin’s prematurely lined face. “See you, then ...” 

The six of them struggled up the slippery drive toward 
the castle dragging their trunks. Hermione was 
already talking about knitting a few elf hats before 
bedtime. Harry glanced back when they reached the 
oak front doors; the Knight Bus had already gone, 
and he half-wished, given what was coming the 
following day, that he was still on board. 

Harry spent most of the next day dreading the 
evening. His morning Potions lesson did nothing to 
dispel his trepidation, as Snape was as unpleasant as 
ever, and Harry’s mood was further lowered by the 
fact that members of the D.A. were continually 
approaching him in the corridors between classes, 
asking hopefully whether there would be a meeting 
that night. 

“I’ll let you know when the next one is,” Harry said 
over and over again, “but I can’t do it tonight, I’ve got 
to go to — er — Remedial Potions...” 

“You take Remedial Potions?” asked Zacharias Smith 
superciliously, having cornered Harry in the entrance 



Page | 673Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hall after lunch. “Good Lord, you must be terrible, 
Snape doesn’t usually give extra lessons, does he?” 

As Smith strode away in an annoyingly buoyant 
fashion, Ron glared after him. 

“Shall I jinx him? I can still get him from here,” he 
said, raising his wand and taking aim between 
Smith’s shoulder blades. 

“Forget it,” said Harry dismally. “It’s what everyone’s 
going to think, isn’t it? That I’m really stup — ” 

“Hi, Harry,” said a voice behind him. He turned 
around and found Cho standing there. 

“Oh,” said Harry as his stomach leapt uncomfortably. 
“Hi.” 

“We’ll be in the library, Harry,” said Hermione firmly, 
and she seized Ron above the elbow and dragged him 
off toward the marble staircase. 

“Had a good Christmas?” asked Cho. 

“Yeah, not bad,” said Harry. 

“Mine was pretty quiet,” said Cho. For some reason, 
she was looking rather embarrassed. “Erm ... there’s 
another Hogsmeade trip next month, did you see the 
notice?” 

“What? Oh no, I haven’t checked the notice board 
since I got back...” 

“Yes, it’s on Valentine’s Day...” 

“Right,” said Harry, wondering why she was telling 
him this. “Well, I suppose you want to — ?” 

Page | 674Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Only if you do,” she said eagerly. 

Harry stared. He had been about to say “I suppose 
you want to know when the next D.A. meeting is?” 
but her response did not seem to fit. 

“I — er — ” he said. 

“Oh, it’s okay if you don’t,” she said, looking 
mortified. “Don’t worry. I-I’ll see you around.” 

She walked away. Harry stood staring after her, his 
brain working frantically. Then something clunked 
into place. 

“Cho! Hey — CHO!” 

He ran after her, catching her halfway up the marble 
staircase. 

“Er — d’you want to come into Hogsmeade with me on 
Valentine’s Day?” 

“Oooh, yes!” she said, blushing crimson and beaming 
at him. 

“Right ... well ... that’s settled then,” said Harry, and 
feeling that the day was not going to be a complete 
loss after all, he headed off to the library to pick up 
Ron and Hermione before their afternoon lessons, 
walking in a rather bouncy way himself. 

By six o’clock that evening, however, even the glow of 
having successfully asked out Cho Chang was 
insufficient to lighten the ominous feelings that 
intensified with every step Harry took toward Snape’s 
office. 



Page | 675Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He paused outside the door when he reached it, 
wishing he were almost anywhere else, then, taking a 
deep breath, knocked, and entered. 

It was a shadowy room lined with shelves bearing 
hundreds of glass jars in which floated slimy bits of 
animals and plants, suspended in variously colored 
potions. In a corner stood the cupboard full of 
ingredients that Snape had once accused Harry — not 
without reason — of robbing. Harry’s attention was 
drawn toward the desk, however, where a shallow 
stone basin engraved with runes and symbols lay in a 
pool of candlelight. Harry recognized it at once — 
Dumbledore’s Pensieve. Wondering what on earth it 
was doing here, he jumped when Snape’s cold voice 
came out of the corner. 

“Shut the door behind you, Potter.” 

Harry did as he was told with the horrible feeling that 
he was imprisoning himself as he did so. When he 
turned back to face the room Snape had moved into 
the light and was pointing silently at the chair 
opposite his desk. Harry sat down and so did Snape, 
his cold black eyes fixed unblinkingly upon Harry, 
dislike etched in every line of his face. 

“Well, Potter, you know why you are here,” he said. 
“The headmaster has asked me to teach you 
Occlumency. I can only hope that you prove more 
adept at it than Potions.” 

“Right,” said Harry tersely. 

“This may not be an ordinary class, Potter,” said 
Snape, his eyes narrowed malevolently, “but I am still 
your teacher and you will therefore call me ‘sir’ or 
‘Professor’ at all times.” 



Page | 676Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes ... sir,” said Harry. 



“Now, Occlumency. As I told you back in your dear 
godfather’s kitchen, this branch of magic seals the 
mind against magical intrusion and influence.” 

“And why does Professor Dumbledore think I need it, 
sir?” said Harry, looking directly into Snape’s dark, 
cold eyes and wondering whether he would answer. 

Snape looked back at him for a moment and then 
said contemptuously, “Surely even you could have 
worked that out by now, Potter? The Dark Lord is 
highly skilled at Legilimency — ” 

“What’s that? Sir?” 

“It is the ability to extract feelings and memories from 
another person’s mind — ” 

“He can read minds?” said Harry quickly, his worst 
fears confirmed. 

“You have no subtlety, Potter,” said Snape, his dark 
eyes glittering. “You do not understand fine 
distinctions. It is one of the shortcomings that makes 
you such a lamentable potion-maker.” 

Snape paused for a moment, apparently to savor the 
pleasure of insulting Harry, before continuing, “Only 
Muggles talk of ‘mind reading. ’ The mind is not a 
book, to be opened at will and examined at leisure. 
Thoughts are not etched on the inside of skulls, to be 
perused by any invader. The mind is a complex and 
many-layered thing, Potter ... or at least, most minds 
are...” He smirked. “It is true, however, that those 
who have mastered Legilimency are able, under 
certain conditions, to delve into the minds of their 
victims and to interpret their findings correctly. The 
Page | 677Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dark Lord, for instance, almost always knows when 
somebody is lying to him. Only those skilled at 
Occlumency are able to shut down those feelings and 
memories that contradict the lie, and so utter 
falsehoods in his presence without detection.” 

Whatever Snape said, Legilimency sounded like mind 
reading to Harry and he did not like the sound of it at 
all. 

“So he could know what we’re thinking right now? 
Sir?” 

“The Dark Lord is at a considerable distance and the 
walls and grounds of Hogwarts are guarded by many 
ancient spells and charms to ensure the bodily and 
mental safety of those who dwell within them,” said 
Snape. “Time and space matter in magic, Potter. Eye 
contact is often essential to Legilimency.” 

“Well then, why do I have to learn Occlumency?” 

Snape eyed Harry, tracing his mouth with one long, 
thin finger as he did so. 

“The usual rules do not seem to apply with you, 
Potter. The curse that failed to kill you seems to have 
forged some kind of connection between you and the 
Dark Lord. The evidence suggests that at times, when 
your mind is most relaxed and vulnerable — when 
you are asleep, for instance — you are sharing the 
Dark Lord’s thoughts and emotions. The headmaster 
thinks it inadvisable for this to continue. He wishes 
me to teach you how to close your mind to the Dark 
Lord.” 

Harry’s heart was pumping fast again. None of this 
added up. 



Page | 678Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But why does Professor Dumbledore want to stop it?” 
he asked abruptly. “I don’t like it much, but it’s been 
useful, hasn’t it? I mean ... I saw that snake attack 
Mr. Weasley and if I hadn’t, Professor Dumbledore 
wouldn’t have been able to save him, would he? Sir?” 

Snape stared at Harry for a few moments, still tracing 
his mouth with his finger. When he spoke again, it 
was slowly and deliberately, as though he weighed 
every word. 

“It appears that the Dark Lord has been unaware of 
the connection between you and himself until very 
recently. Up till now it seems that you have been 
experiencing his emotions and sharing his thoughts 
without his being any the wiser. However, the vision 
you had shortly before Christmas — ” 

“The one with the snake and Mr. Weasley?” 

“Do not interrupt me, Potter,” said Snape in a 
dangerous voice. “As I was saying ... the vision you 
had shortly before Christmas represented such a 
powerful incursion upon the Dark Lord’s thoughts — ” 

“I saw inside the snake’s head, not his!” 

“I thought I just told you not to interrupt me, Potter?” 

But Harry did not care if Snape was angry; at last he 
seemed to be getting to the bottom of this business. 

He had moved forward in his chair so that, without 
realizing it, he was perched on the very edge, tense as 
though poised for flight. 

“How come I saw through the snake’s eyes if it’s 
Voldemort’s thoughts I’m sharing?” 

“Do not say the Dark Lord’s name\” spat Snape. 

Page | 679Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a nasty silence. They glared at each other 
across the Pensieve. 

“Professor Dumbledore says his name,” said Harry 
quietly. 

“Dumbledore is an extremely powerful wizard,” Snape 
muttered. “While he may feel secure enough to use 
the name ... the rest of us ...” He rubbed his left 
forearm, apparently unconsciously, on the spot where 
Harry knew the Dark Mark was burned into his skin. 

“I just wanted to know,” Harry began again, forcing 
his voice back to politeness, “why — ” 

“You seem to have visited the snake’s mind because 
that was where the Dark Lord was at that particular 
moment,” snarled Snape. “He was possessing the 
snake at the time and so you dreamed you were 
inside it too...” 

“And Vol — he — realized I was there?” 

“It seems so,” said Snape coolly. 

“How do you know?” said Harry urgently. “Is this just 
Professor Dumbledore guessing, or — ?” 

“I told you,” said Snape, rigid in his chair, his eyes 
slits, “to call me ‘sir.’ ” 

“Yes, sir,” said Harry impatiently, “but how do you 
know — ?” 

“It is enough that we know,” said Snape repressively. 
“The important point is that the Dark Lord is now 
aware that you are gaining access to his thoughts and 
feelings. He has also deduced that the process is 
likely to work in reverse; that is to say, he has 
Page | 680Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




realized that he might be able to access your thoughts 
and feelings in return — ” 

“And he might try and make me do things?” asked 
Harry. “Sir?” he added hurriedly. 

“He might,” said Snape, sounding cold and 
unconcerned. “Which brings us back to Occlumency.” 

Snape pulled out his wand from an inside pocket of 
his robes and Harry tensed in his chair, but Snape 
merely raised the wand to his temple and placed its 
tip into the greasy roots of his hair. When he 
withdrew it, some silvery substance came away, 
stretching from temple to wand like a thick gossamer 
strand, which broke as he pulled the wand away from 
it and fell gracefully into the Pensieve, where it 
swirled silvery white, neither gas nor liquid. Twice 
more Snape raised the wand to his temple and 
deposited the silvery substance into the stone basin, 
then, without offering any explanation of his behavior, 
he picked up the Pensieve carefully, removed it to a 
shelf out of their way and returned to face Harry with 
his wand held at the ready. 

“Stand up and take out your wand, Potter.” 

Harry got to his feet feeling nervous. They faced each 
other with the desk between them. 

“You may use your wand to attempt to disarm me, or 
defend yourself in any other way you can think of,” 
said Snape. 

“And what are you going to do?” Harry asked, eyeing 
Snape ’s wand apprehensively. 

“I am about to attempt to break into your mind,” said 
Snape softly. “We are going to see how well you resist. 

Page | 681Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




I have been told that you have already shown 
aptitude at resisting the Imperius Curse... You will 
find that similar powers are needed for this... Brace 
yourself, now... LegilimensV’ 

Snape had struck before Harry was ready, before 
Harry had even begun to summon any force of 
resistance: the office swam in front of his eyes and 
vanished, image after image was racing through his 
mind like a flickering film so vivid it blinded him to 
his surroundings... 

He was five, watching Dudley riding a new red bicycle, 
and his heart was bursting with jealousy... He was 
nine, and Ripper the bulldog was chasing him up a 
tree and the Dursleys were laughing below on the 
lawn. . . He was sitting under the Sorting Hat, and it 
was telling him he would do well in Slytherin... 
Hermione was lying in the hospital wing, her face 
covered with thick black hair. . . A hundred dementors 
were closing in on him beside the dark lake... Cho 
Chang was drawing nearer to him under the 
mistletoe... 

No, said a voice in Harry’s head, as the memory of 
Cho drew nearer, you’re not watching that, you’re not 
watching it, it’s private — 

He felt a sharp pain in his knee. Snape ’s office had 
come back into view and he realized that he had 
fallen to the floor; one of his knees had collided 
painfully with the leg of Snape ’s desk. He looked up at 
Snape, who had lowered his wand and was rubbing 
his wrist. There was an angry weal there, like a 
scorch mark. 

“Did you mean to produce a Stinging Hex?” asked 
Snape coolly. 



Page | 682Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry bitterly, getting up from the floor. 

“I thought not,” said Snape contemptuously. “You let 
me get in too far. You lost control.” 

“Did you see everything I saw?” Harry asked, unsure 
whether he wanted to hear the answer. 

“Flashes of it,” said Snape, his lip curling. “To whom 
did the dog belong?” 

“My Aunt Marge,” Harry muttered, hating Snape. 

“Well, for a first attempt that was not as poor as it 
might have been,” said Snape, raising his wand once 
more. “You managed to stop me eventually, though 
you wasted time and energy shouting. You must 
remain focused. Repel me with your brain and you 
will not need to resort to your wand.” 

“I’m trying,” said Harry angrily, “but you’re not telling 
me how!” 

“Manners, Potter,” said Snape dangerously. “Now, I 
want you to close your eyes.” 

Harry threw him a filthy look before doing as he was 
told. He did not like the idea of standing there with 
his eyes shut while Snape faced him, carrying a 
wand. 

“Clear your mind, Potter,” said Snape ’s cold voice. 
“Let go of all emotion...” 

But Harry’s anger at Snape continued to pound 
through his veins like venom. Let go of his anger? He 
could as easily detach his legs... 



Page | 683Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re not doing it, Potter... You will need more 
discipline than this... Focus, now...” 

Harry tried to empty his mind, tried not to think, or 
remember, or feel... 

“Let’s go again ... on the count of three ... one — two 
— three — Legilimensl” 

A great black dragon was rearing in front of him... His 
father and mother were waving at him out of an 
enchanted mirror. . . Cedric Diggory was lying on the 
ground with blank eyes staring at him... 

“NOOOOOOO!” 

He was on his knees again, his face buried in his 
hands, his brain aching as though someone had been 
trying to pull it from his skull. 

“Get up!” said Snape sharply. “Get up! You are not 
trying, you are making no effort, you are allowing me 
access to memories you fear, handing me weapons!” 

Harry stood up again, his heart thumping wildly as 
though he had really just seen Cedric dead in the 
graveyard. Snape looked paler than usual, and 
angrier, though not nearly as angry as Harry was. 

“I — am — making — an — effort,” he said through 
clenched teeth. 

“I told you to empty yourself of emotion!” 

“Yeah? Well, I’m finding that hard at the moment,” 
Harry snarled. 

“Then you will find yourself easy prey for the Dark 
Lord!” said Snape savagely. “Fools who wear their 

Page | 684Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hearts proudly on their sleeves, who cannot control 
their emotions, who wallow in sad memories and 
allow themselves to be provoked this easily — weak 
people, in other words — they stand no chance 
against his powers! He will penetrate your mind with 
absurd ease, Potter!” 

“I am not weak,” said Harry in a low voice, fury now 
pumping through him so that he thought he might 
attack Snape in a moment. 

“Then prove it! Master yourself!” spat Snape. “Control 
your anger, discipline your mind! We shall try again! 
Get ready, now! Legilimens\” 

He was watching Uncle Vernon hammering the letter 
box shut... A hundred dementors were drifting across 
the lake in the grounds toward him... He was running 
along a windowless passage with Mr. Weasley... They 
were drawing nearer to the plain black door at the 
end of the corridor. . . Harry expected to go through it 
. . . but Mr. Weasley led him off to the left, down a 
flight of stone steps... 

“I KNOW! I KNOW!” 

He was on all fours again on Snape’s office floor, his 
scar was prickling unpleasantly, but the voice that 
had just issued from his mouth was triumphant. He 
pushed himself up again to find Snape staring at him, 
his wand raised. It looked as though, this time, Snape 
had lifted the spell before Harry had even tried to 
fight back. 

“What happened then, Potter?” he asked, eyeing 
Harry intently. 

“I saw — I remembered,” Harry panted. “I’ve just 
realized ...” 

Page | 685Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Realized what?” asked Snape sharply. 

Harry did not answer at once; he was still savoring 
the moment of blinding realization as he rubbed his 
forehead... 

He had been dreaming about a windowless corridor 
ending in a locked door for months, without once 
realizing that it was a real place. Now, seeing the 
memory again, he knew that all along he had been 
dreaming about the corridor down which he had run 
with Mr. Weasley on the twelfth of August as they 
hurried to the courtrooms in the Ministry. It was the 
corridor leading to the Department of Mysteries, and 
Mr. Weasley had been there the night that he had 
been attacked by Voldemort’s snake... 

He looked up at Snape. 

“What’s in the Department of Mysteries?” 

“What did you say?” Snape asked quietly and Harry 
saw, with deep satisfaction, that Snape was 
unnerved. 

“I said, what’s in the Department of Mysteries, sir?” 
Harry said. 

“And why,” said Snape slowly, “would you ask such a 
thing?” 

“Because,” said Harry, watching Snape closely for a 
reaction, “that corridor I’ve just seen — I’ve been 
dreaming about it for months — I’ve just recognized it 
— it leads to the Department of Mysteries . . . and I 
think Voldemort wants something from — ” 

“I have told you not to say the Dark Lord’s name\” 



Page | 686Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They glared at each other. Harry’s scar seared again, 
but he did not care. Snape looked agitated. When he 
spoke again he sounded as though he was trying to 
appear cool and unconcerned. 

“There are many things in the Department of 
Mysteries, Potter, few of which you would understand 
and none of which concern you, do I make myself 
plain?” 

“Yes,” Harry said, still rubbing his prickling scar, 
which was becoming more painful. 

“I want you back here same time on Wednesday, and 
we will continue work then.” 

“Fine,” said Harry. He was desperate to get out of 
Snape ’s office and find Ron and Hermione. 

“You are to rid your mind of all emotion every night 
before sleep — empty it, make it blank and calm, you 
understand?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, who was barely listening. 

“And be warned, Potter ... I shall know if you have not 
practiced ...” 

“Right,” Harry mumbled. He picked up his schoolbag, 
swung it over his shoulder, and hurried toward the 
office door. As he opened it he glanced back at Snape, 
who had his back to Harry and was scooping his own 
thoughts out of the Pensieve with the tip of his wand 
and replacing them carefully inside his own head. 
Harry left without another word, closing the door 
carefully behind him, his scar still throbbing 
painfully. 



Page | 687Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry found Ron and Hermione in the library, where 
they were working on Umbridge’s most recent ream of 
homework. Other students, nearly all of them fifth 
years, sat at lamp-lit tables nearby, noses close to 
books, quills scratching feverishly, while the sky 
outside the mullioned windows grew steadily blacker. 
The only other sound was the slight squeaking of one 
of Madam Pince’s shoes as the librarian prowled the 
aisles menacingly, breathing down the necks of those 
touching her precious books. 

Harry felt shivery; his scar was still aching, he felt 
almost feverish. When he sat down opposite Ron and 
Hermione he caught sight of himself in the window 
opposite. He was very white, and his scar seemed to 
be showing up more clearly than usual. 

“How did it go?” Hermione whispered, and then, 
looking concerned, “Are you all right, Harry?” 

“Yeah ... fine ... I dunno,” said Harry impatiently, 
wincing as pain shot through his scar again. “Listen 
... I’ve just realized something...” 

And he told them what he had just seen and deduced. 

“So ... so, are you saying ...” whispered Ron, as 
Madam Pince swept past, squeaking slightly, “that the 
weapon — the thing You-Know- Who’s after — is in 
the Ministry of Magic?” 

“In the Department of Mysteries, it’s got to be,” Harry 
whispered. “I saw that door when your dad took me 
down to the courtrooms for my hearing and it’s 
definitely the same one he was guarding when the 
snake bit him.” 

Hermione let out a long, slow sigh. “Of course,” she 
breathed. 

Page | 688Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Of course what?” said Ron rather impatiently. 

“Ron, think about it... Sturgis Podmore was trying to 
get through a door at the Ministry of Magic... It must 
have been that one, it’s too much of a coincidence!” 

“How come Sturgis was trying to break in when he’s 
on our side?” said Ron. 

“Well, I don’t know,” Hermione admitted. “That is a bit 
odd...” 

“So what’s in the Department of Mysteries?” Harry 
asked Ron. “Has your dad ever mentioned anything 
about it?” 

“I know they call the people who work in there 
‘Unspeakables,’ ” said Ron, frowning. “Because no one 
really seems to know what they do in there... Weird 
place to have a weapon ...” 

“It’s not weird at all, it makes perfect sense,” said 
Hermione. “It will be something top secret that the 
Ministry has been developing, I expect... Harry, are 
you sure you’re all right?” 

For Harry had just run both his hands hard over his 
forehead as though trying to iron it. 

“Yeah ... fine ...” he said, lowering his hands, which 
were trembling. “I just feel a bit ... I don’t like 
Occlumency much...” 

“I expect anyone would feel shaky if they’d had their 
mind attacked over and over again,” said Hermione 
sympathetically. “Look, let’s get back to the common 
room, well be a bit more comfortable there...” 



Page | 689Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But the common room was packed and full of shrieks 
of laughter and excitement; Fred and George were 
demonstrating their latest bit of joke shop 
merchandise. 

“Headless Hats!” shouted George, as Fred waved a 
pointed hat decorated with a fluffy pink feather at the 
watching students. “Two Galleons each — watch 
Fred, now!” 

Fred swept the hat onto his head, beaming. For a 
second he merely looked rather stupid, then both hat 
and head vanished. 

Several girls screamed, but everyone else was roaring 
with laughter. 

“And off again!” shouted George, and Fred’s hand 
groped for a moment in what seemed to be thin air 
over his shoulder; then his head reappeared as he 
swept the pink-feathered hat from it again. 

“How do those hats work, then?” said Hermione, 
distracted from her homework and watching Fred and 
George. “I mean, obviously it’s some kind of 
Invisibility Spell, but it’s rather clever to have 
extended the field of invisibility beyond the 
boundaries of the charmed object... I’d imagine the 
charm wouldn’t have a very long life though...” 

Harry did not answer; he was still feeling ill. 

“I’m going to have to do this tomorrow,” he muttered, 
pushing the books he had just taken out of his bag 
back inside it. 

“Well, write it in your homework planner then!” said 
Hermione encouragingly. “So you don’t forget!” 



Page | 690Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry and Ron exchanged looks as he reached into 
his bag, withdrew the planner and opened it 
tentatively. 

“ Don’t leave it till later, you big second-rateri” chided 
the book as Harry scribbled down Umbridge’s 
homework. Hermione beamed at it. 

“I think 111 go to bed,” said Harry, stuffing the 
homework planner back into his bag and making a 
mental note to drop it in the fire the first opportunity 
he got. 

He walked across the common room, dodging George, 
who tried to put a Headless Hat on him, and reached 
the peace and cool of the stone staircase to the boys’ 
dormitories. He was feeling sick again, just as he had 
the night he had had the vision of the snake, but 
thought that if he could just lie down for a while he 
would be all right. 

He opened the door of his dormitory and was one step 
inside it when he experienced pain so severe he 
thought that someone must have sliced into the top of 
his head. He did not know where he was, whether he 
was standing or lying down, he did not even know his 
own name... 

Maniacal laughter was ringing in his ears... He was 
happier than he had been in a very long time... 
Jubilant, ecstatic, triumphant ... A wonderful, 
wonderful thing had happened... 

“Harry? HARRY!” 

Someone had hit him around the face. The insane 
laughter was punctuated with a cry of pain. The 
happiness was draining out of him, but the laughter 
continued... 

Page | 691Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He opened his eyes and as he did so, he became 
aware that the wild laughter was coming out of his 
own mouth. The moment he realized this, it died 
away; Harry lay panting on the floor, staring up at the 
ceiling, the scar on his forehead throbbing horribly. 
Ron was bending over him, looking very worried. 

“What happened?” he said. 

“I ... dunno ...” Harry gasped, sitting up again. “He’s 
really happy ... really happy ...” 

“You-Know-Who is?” 

“Something good’s happened,” mumbled Harry. He 
was shaking as badly as he had done after seeing the 
snake attack Mr. Weasley and felt very sick. 
“Something he’s been hoping for.” 

The words came, just as they had back in the 
Gryffindor changing room, as though a stranger was 
speaking them through Harry’s mouth, yet he knew 
they were true. He took deep breaths, willing himself 
not to vomit all over Ron. He was very glad that Dean 
and Seamus were not here to watch this time. 

“Hermione told me to come and check on you,” said 
Ron in a low voice, helping Harry to his feet. “She 
says your defenses will be low at the moment, after 
Snape’s been fiddling around with your mind... Still, I 
suppose it’ll help in the long run, won’t it?” 

He looked doubtfully at Harry as he helped him 
toward bed. Harry nodded without any conviction and 
slumped back on his pillows, aching all over from 
having fallen to the floor so often that evening, his 
scar still prickling painfully. He could not help feeling 
that his first foray into Occlumency had weakened his 
mind’s resistance rather than strengthening it, and 
Page | 692Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he wondered, with a feeling of great trepidation, what 
had happened to make Lord Voldemort the happiest 
he had been in fourteen years. 



Page | 693Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE BEETLE AT BAY 

Harry’s question was answered the very next 
morning. When Hermione’s Daily Prophet arrived she 
smoothed it out, gazed for a moment at the front 
page, and then gave a yelp that caused everyone in 
the vicinity to stare at her. 

“What?” said Harry and Ron together. 

For an answer she spread the newspaper on the table 
in front of them and pointed at ten black-and-white 
photographs that filled the whole of the front page, 
nine showing wizards’ faces and the tenth, a witch’s. 
Some of the people in the photographs were silently 
jeering; others were tapping their fingers on the frame 
of their pictures, looking insolent. Each picture was 
captioned with a name and the crime for which the 
person had been sent to Azkaban. 

Antonin Dolohov, read the legend beneath a wizard 
with a long, pale, twisted face who was sneering up at 
Harry, convicted of the brutal murders of Gideon and 
Fabian Prewett. 

Page | 694Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Augustus Rookwood, said the caption beneath a 
pockmarked man with greasy hair who was leaning 
against the edge of his picture, looking bored, 
convicted of leaking Ministry of Magic Secrets to He- 
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. 

But Harry’s eyes were drawn to the picture of the 
witch. Her face had leapt out at him the moment he 
had seen the page. She had long, dark hair that 
looked unkempt and straggly in the picture, though 
he had seen it sleek, thick, and shining. She glared 
up at him through heavily lidded eyes, an arrogant, 
disdainful smile playing around her thin mouth. Like 
Sirius, she retained vestiges of great good looks, but 
something — perhaps Azkaban — had taken most of 
her beauty. 

Bellatrix Lestrange, convicted of the torture and 
permanent incapacitation of Frank and Alice 
Longbottom. 

Hermione nudged Harry and pointed at the headline 
over the pictures, which Harry, concentrating on 
Bellatrix, had not yet read. 

MASS BREAKOUT FROM AZKABAN 

MINISTRY FEARS BLACK IS “RALLYING POINT” 

FOR OLD DEATH EATERS 

“Black?” said Harry loudly. “Not — ?” 

“ Shhh\ ” whispered Hermione desperately. “Not so loud 
— just read it!” 
