Grasping my gun close to my chest, I survey the block.
There's only a handful of dazed-looking stragglers. I trail
close behind a pair of old men who take no notice of me.
No one will expect me to be with old men. When we reach
the end of the next intersection, they stop and I almost
bump into them. It's the City Circle. Across the wide
expanse ringed by grand buildings sits the president's
mansion.
The Circle's full of people milling around, wailing, or
just sitting and letting the snow pile up around them. I fit
right in. I begin to weave my way across to the mansion,
tripping over abandoned treasures and snow-frosted limbs.
About halfway there, I become aware of the concrete
barricade. It's about four feet high and extends in a large
rectangle in front of the mansion. You would think it would
be empty, but it's packed with refugees. Maybe this is the
group that's been chosen to be sheltered at the mansion?
But as I draw closer, I notice something else. Everyone
inside the barricade is a child. Toddlers to teenagers.
Scared and frostbitten. Huddled in groups or rocking
numbly on the ground. They aren't being led into the
mansion. They're penned in, guarded on all sides by
Peacekeepers. I know immediately it's not for their
protection. If the Capitol wanted to safeguard them, they'd
be down in a bunker somewhere. This is for Snow's
protection. The children form his human shield.
There's a commotion and the crowd surges to the left.
I'm caught up by larger bodies, borne sideways, carried off
course. I hear shouts of "The rebels! The rebels!" and know
they must've broken through. The momentum slams me into
a flagpole and I cling to it. Using the rope that hangs from
the top, I pull myself up out of the crush of bodies. Yes, I can
see the rebel army pouring into the Circle, driving the
refugees back onto the avenues. I scan the area for the
pods that will surely be detonating. But that doesn't happen.
This is what happens:
A hovercraft marked with the Capitol's seal
materializes directly over the barricaded children. Scores
of silver parachutes rain down on them. Even in this chaos,
the children know what silver parachutes contain. Food.
Medicine. Gifts. They eagerly scoop them up, frozen fingers
struggling with the strings. The hovercraft vanishes, five
seconds pass, and then about twenty parachutes
simultaneously explode.
A wail rises from the crowd. The snow's red and
littered with undersized body parts. Many of the children die
immediately, but others lie in agony on the ground. Some
stagger around mutely, staring at the remaining silver
parachutes in their hands, as if they still might have
something precious inside. I can tell the Peacekeepers
didn't know this was coming by the way they are yanking
away the barricades, making a path to the children. Another
flock of white uniforms sweeps into the opening. But these
aren't Peacekeepers. They're medics. Rebel medics. I'd
know the uniforms anywhere. They swarm in among the
children, wielding medical kits.
First I get a glimpse of the blond braid down her back.
Then, as she yanks off her coat to cover a wailing child, I
notice the duck tail formed by her untucked shirt. I have the
same reaction I did the day Effie Trinket called her name at
the reaping. At least, I must go limp, because I find myself
at the base of the flagpole, unable to account for the last
few seconds. Then I am pushing through the crowd, just as I
did before. Trying to shout her name above the roar. I'm
almost there, almost to the barricade, when I think she
hears me. Because for just a moment, she catches sight of
me, her lips form my name.
And that's when the rest of the parachutes go off.
25
Real or not real? I am on fire. The balls of flame that
erupted from the parachutes shot over the barricades,
through the snowy air, and landed in the crowd. I was just
turning away when one caught me, ran its tongue up the
back of my body, and transformed me into something new.
A creature as unquenchable as the sun.
A fire mutt knows only a single sensation: agony. No
sight, no sound, no feeling except the unrelenting burning of
flesh. Perhaps there are periods of unconsciousness, but
what can it matter if I can't find refuge in them? I am Cinna's
bird, ignited, flying frantically to escape something
inescapable. The feathers of flame that grow from my body.
Beating my wings only fans the blaze. I consume myself, but
to no end.
Finally, my wings begin to falter, I lose height, and
gravity pulls me into a foamy sea the color of Finnick's
eyes. I float on my back, which continues to burn beneath
the water, but the agony quiets to pain. When I am adrift
and unable to navigate, that's when they come. The dead.
The ones I loved fly as birds in the open sky above me.
Soaring, weaving, calling to me to join them. I want so badly
to follow them, but the seawater saturates my wings,
making it impossible to lift them. The ones I hated have
taken to the water, horrible scaled things that tear my salty
flesh with needle teeth. Biting again and again. Dragging
me beneath the surface.
The small white bird tinged in pink dives down, buries
her claws in my chest, and tries to keep me afloat. "No,
Katniss! No! You can't go!"
But the ones I hated are winning, and if she clings to
me, she'll be lost as well. "Prim, let go!" And finally she
does.Deep in the water, I'm deserted by all. There's only the
sound of my breathing, the enormous effort it takes to draw
the water in, push it out of my lungs. I want to stop, I try to
hold my breath, but the sea forces its way in and out
against my will. "Let me die. Let me follow the others," I
beg whatever holds me here. There's no response.
Trapped for days, years, centuries maybe. Dead, but
not allowed to die. Alive, but as good as dead. So alone
that anyone, anything no matter how loathsome would be
welcome. But when I finally have a visitor, it's sweet.
Morphling. Coursing through my veins, easing the pain,
lightening my body so that it rises back toward the air and
rests again on the foam.
Foam. I really am floating on foam. I can feel it beneath
the tips of my fingers, cradling parts of my naked body.
There's much pain but there's also something like reality.
The sandpaper of my throat. The smell of burn medicine
from the first arena. The sound of my mother's voice. These
things frighten me, and I try to return to the deep to make
sense of them. But there's no going back. Gradually, I'm
forced to accept who I am. A badly burned girl with no
wings. With no fire. And no sister.
In the dazzling white Capitol hospital, the doctors work
their magic on me. Draping my rawness in new sheets of
skin. Coaxing the cells into thinking they are my own.
Manipulating my body parts, bending and stretching the
limbs to assure a good fit. I hear over and over again how
lucky I am. My eyes were spared. Most of my face was
spared. My lungs are responding to treatment. I will be as
good as new.
When my tender skin has toughened enough to
withstand the pressure of sheets, more visitors arrive. The
morphling opens the door to the dead and alive alike.
Haymitch, yellow and unsmiling. Cinna, stitching a new
wedding dress. Delly, prattling on about the niceness of
people. My father sings all four stanzas of "The Hanging
Tree" and reminds me that my mother--who sleeps in a
chair between shifts--isn't to know about it.
One day I awake to expectations and know I will not be
allowed to live in my dreamland. I must take food by mouth.
Move my own muscles. Make my way to the bathroom. A
brief appearance by President Coin clinches it.
"Don't worry," she says. "I've saved him for you."
The doctors' puzzlement grows over why I'm unable to
speak. Many tests are done, and while there's damage to
my vocal cords, it doesn't account for it. Finally, Dr.
Aurelius, a head doctor, comes up with the theory that I've
become a mental, rather than physical, Avox. That my
silence has been brought on by emotional trauma. Although
he's presented with a hundred proposed remedies, he tells
them to leave me alone. So I don't ask about anyone or
anything, but people bring me a steady stream of
information. On the war: The Capitol fell the day the
parachutes went off, President Coin leads Panem now, and
troops have been sent out to put down the small remaining
pockets of Capitol resistance. On President Snow: He's
being held prisoner, awaiting trial and most certain
execution. On my assassination team: Cressida and Pollux
have been sent out into the districts to cover the wreckage
of the war. Gale, who took two bullets in an escape attempt,
is mopping up Peacekeepers in 2. Peeta's still in the burn
unit. He made it to the City Circle after all. On my family: My
mother buries her grief in her work.
Having no work, grief buries me. All that keeps me
going is Coin's promise. That I can kill Snow. And when
that's done, nothing will be left.
Eventually, I'm released from the hospital and given a
room in the president's mansion to share with my mother.
She's almost never there, taking her meals and sleeping at
work. It falls to Haymitch to check on me, make sure I'm
eating and using my medicines. It's not an easy job. I take
to my old habits from District 13. Wandering unauthorized
through the mansion. Into bedrooms and offices, ballrooms
and baths. Seeking strange little hiding spaces. A closet of
furs. A cabinet in the library. A long-forgotten bathtub in a
room of discarded furniture. My places are dim and quiet
and impossible to find. I curl up, make myself smaller, try to
disappear entirely. Wrapped in silence, I slide my bracelet
that reads mentally disoriented around and around my
wrist.
My name is Katniss Everdeen. I am seventeen years
old. My home is District 12. There is no District 12. I am
the Mockingjay. I brought down the Capitol. President
Snow hates me. He killed my sister. Now I will kill him.
And then the Hunger Games will be over....
Periodically, I find myself back in my room, unsure
whether I was driven by a need for morphling or if Haymitch
ferreted me out. I eat the food, take the medicine, and am
required to bathe. It's not the water I mind, but the mirror
that reflects my naked fire-mutt body. The skin grafts still
retain a newborn-baby pinkness. The skin deemed
damaged but salvageable looks red, hot, and melted in
places. Patches of my former self gleam white and pale. I'm
like a bizarre patchwork quilt of skin. Parts of my hair were
singed off completely; the rest has been chopped off at odd
lengths. Katniss Everdeen, the girl who was on fire. I
wouldn't much care except the sight of my body brings back
the memory of the pain. And why I was in pain. And what
happened just before the pain started. And how I watched
my little sister become a human torch.
Closing my eyes doesn't help. Fire burns brighter in
the darkness.
Dr. Aurelius shows up sometimes. I like him because
he doesn't say stupid things like how I'm totally safe, or that
he knows I can't see it but I'll be happy again one day, or
even that things will be better in Panem now. He just asks if
I feel like talking, and when I don't answer, he falls asleep in
his chair. In fact, I think his visits are largely motivated by his
need for a nap. The arrangement works for both of us.
The time draws near, although I could not give you
exact hours and minutes. President Snow has been tried
and found guilty, sentenced to execution. Haymitch tells me,
I hear talk of it as I drift past the guards in the hallways. My
Mockingjay suit arrives in my room. Also my bow, looking
no worse for wear, but no sheath of arrows. Either because
they were damaged or more likely because I shouldn't have
weapons. I vaguely wonder if I should be preparing for the
event in some way, but nothing comes to mind.
Late one afternoon, after a long period in a cushioned
window seat behind a painted screen, I emerge and turn
left instead of right. I find myself in a strange part of the
mansion, and immediately lose my bearings. Unlike the
area where I'm quartered, there seems to be no one around
to ask. I like it, though. Wish I'd found it sooner. It's so quiet,
with the thick carpets and heavy tapestries soaking up the
sound. Softly lit. Muted colors. Peaceful. Until I smell the
roses. I dive behind some curtains, shaking too hard to run,
while I await the mutts. Finally, I realize there are no mutts
coming. So, what do I smell? Real roses? Could it be that I
am near the garden where the evil things grow?
As I creep down the hall, the odor becomes
overpowering. Perhaps not as strong as the actual mutts,
but purer, because it's not competing with sewage and
explosives. I turn a corner and find myself staring at two
surprised guards. Not Peacekeepers, of course. There are
no more Peacekeepers. But not the trim, gray-uniformed
soldiers from 13 either. These two, a man and a woman,
wear the tattered, thrown-together clothes of actual rebels.
Still bandaged and gaunt, they are now keeping watch over
the doorway to the roses. When I move to enter, their guns
form an X in front of me.
"You can't go in, miss," says the man.
"Soldier," the woman corrects him. "You can't go in,
Soldier Everdeen. President's orders."
I just stand there patiently waiting for them to lower
their guns, for them to understand, without my telling them,
that behind those doors is something I need. Just a rose. A
single bloom. To place in Snow's lapel before I shoot him.
My presence seems to worry the guards. They're
discussing calling Haymitch, when a woman speaks up
behind me. "Let her go in."
I know the voice but can't immediately place it. Not
Seam, not 13, definitely not Capitol. I turn my head and find
myself face-to-face with Paylor, the commander from 8.
She looks even more beat up than she did at the hospital,
but who doesn't?
"On my authority," says Paylor. "She has a right to
anything behind that door." These are her soldiers, not
Coin's. They drop their weapons without question and let
me pass.
At the end of a short hallway, I push apart the glass
doors and step inside. By now the smell's so strong that it
begins to flatten out, as if there's no more my nose can
absorb. The damp, mild air feels good on my hot skin. And
the roses are glorious. Row after row of sumptuous blooms,
in lush pink, sunset orange, and even pale blue. I wander
through the aisles of carefully pruned plants, looking but not
touching, because I have learned the hard way how deadly
these beauties can be. I know when I find it, crowning the
top of a slender bush. A magnificent white bud just
beginning to open. I pull my left sleeve over my hand so that
my skin won't actually have to touch it, take up a pair of
pruning shears, and have just positioned them on the stem
when he speaks.
"That's a nice one."
My hand jerks, the shears snap shut, severing the
stem.
"The colors are lovely, of course, but nothing says
perfection like white."
I still can't see him, but his voice seems to rise up from
an adjacent bed of red roses. Delicately pinching the stem
of the bud through the fabric of my sleeve, I move slowly
around the corner and find him sitting on a stool against the
wall. He's as well groomed and finely dressed as ever, but
weighted down with manacles, ankle shackles, tracking
devices. In the bright light, his skin's a pale, sickly green.
He holds a white handkerchief spotted with fresh blood.
Even in his deteriorated state, his snake eyes shine bright
and cold. "I was hoping you'd find your way to my quarters."
His quarters. I have trespassed into his home, the way
he slithered into mine last year, hissing threats with his
bloody, rosy breath. This greenhouse is one of his rooms,
perhaps his favorite; perhaps in better times he tended the
plants himself. But now it's part of his prison. That's why the
guards halted me. And that's why Paylor let me in.
I'd supposed he would be secured in the deepest
dungeon that the Capitol had to offer, not cradled in the lap
of luxury. Yet Coin left him here. To set a precedent, I
guess. So that if in the future she ever fell from grace, it
would be understood that presidents--even the most
despicable--get special treatment. Who knows, after all,
when her own power might fade?
"There are so many things we should discuss, but I
have a feeling your visit will be brief. So, first things first."
He begins to cough, and when he removes the
handkerchief from his mouth, it's redder. "I wanted to tell
you how very sorry I am about your sister."
Even in my deadened, drugged condition, this sends a
stab of pain through me. Reminding me that there are no
limits to his cruelty. And how he will go to his grave trying to
destroy me.
"So wasteful, so unnecessary. Anyone could see the
game was over by that point. In fact, I was just about to
issue an official surrender when they released those
parachutes." His eyes are glued on me, unblinking, so as
not to miss a second of my reaction. But what he's said
makes no sense. When they released the parachutes?
"Well, you really didn't think I gave the order, did you?
Forget the obvious fact that if I'd had a working hovercraft at
my disposal, I'd have been using it to make an escape. But
that aside, what purpose could it have served? We both
know I'm not above killing children, but I'm not wasteful. I
take life for very specific reasons. And there was no reason
for me to destroy a pen full of Capitol children. None at all."
I wonder if the next fit of coughing is staged so that I
can have time to absorb his words. He's lying. Of course,
he's lying. But there's something struggling to free itself
from the lie as well.
"However, I must concede it was a masterful move on
Coin's part. The idea that I was bombing our own helpless
children instantly snapped whatever frail allegiance my
people still felt to me. There was no real resistance after
that. Did you know it aired live? You can see Plutarch's
hand there. And in the parachutes. Well, it's that sort of
thinking that you look for in a Head Gamemaker, isn't it?"
Snow dabs the corners of his mouth. "I'm sure he wasn't
gunning for your sister, but these things happen."
I'm not with Snow now. I'm in Special Weaponry back
in 13 with Gale and Beetee. Looking at the designs based
on Gale's traps. That played on human sympathies. The
first bomb killed the victims. The second, the rescuers.
Remembering Gale's words.
"Beetee and I have been following the same rule
book President Snow used when he hijacked Peeta."
"My failure," says Snow, "was being so slow to grasp
Coin's plan. To let the Capitol and districts destroy one
another, and then step in to take power with Thirteen barely
scratched. Make no mistake, she was intending to take my
place right from the beginning. I shouldn't be surprised.
After all, it was Thirteen that started the rebellion that led to
the Dark Days, and then abandoned the rest of the districts
when the tide turned against it. But I wasn't watching Coin. I
was watching you, Mockingjay. And you were watching me.
I'm afraid we have both been played for fools."
I refuse for this to be true. Some things even I can't
survive. I utter my first words since my sister's death. "I don't
believe you."
Snow shakes his head in mock disappointment. "Oh,
my dear Miss Everdeen. I thought we had agreed not to lie
to each other."
26
Out in the hall, I find Paylor standing in exactly the
same spot. "Did you find what you were looking for?" she
asks.
I hold up the white bud in answer and then stumble
past her. I must have made it back to my room, because
the next thing I know, I'm filling a glass with water from the
bathroom faucet and sticking the rose in it. I sink to my
knees on the cold tile and squint at the flower, as the
whiteness seems hard to focus on in the stark fluorescent
light. My finger catches the inside of my bracelet, twisting it
like a tourniquet, hurting my wrist. I'm hoping the pain will
help me hang on to reality the way it did for Peeta. I must
hang on. I must know the truth about what has happened.
There are two possibilities, although the details
associated with them may vary. First, as I've believed, that
the Capitol sent in that hovercraft, dropped the parachutes,
and sacrificed its children's lives, knowing the recently
arrived rebels would go to their aid. There's evidence to
support this. The Capitol's seal on the hovercraft, the lack of
any attempt to blow the enemy out of the sky, and their long
history of using children as pawns in their battle against the
districts. Then there's Snow's account. That a Capitol
hovercraft manned by rebels bombed the children to bring
a speedy end to the war. But if this was the case, why didn't
the Capitol fire on the enemy? Did the element of surprise
throw them? Had they no defenses left? Children are
precious to 13, or so it has always seemed. Well, not me,
maybe. Once I had outlived my usefulness, I was
expendable. Although I think it's been a long time since I've
been considered a child in this war. And why would they do
it knowing their own medics would likely respond and be
taken out by the second blast? They wouldn't. They couldn't.
Snow's lying. Manipulating me as he always has. Hoping to
turn me against the rebels and possibly destroy them. Yes.
Of course.
Then what's nagging at me? Those double-exploding
bombs, for one. It's not that the Capitol couldn't have the
same weapon, it's just that I'm sure the rebels did. Gale and
Beetee's brainchild. Then there's the fact that Snow made
no escape attempt, when I know him to be the consummate
survivor. It seems hard to believe he didn't have a retreat
somewhere, some bunker stocked with provisions where
he could live out the rest of his snaky little life. And finally,
there's his assessment of Coin. What's irrefutable is that
she's done exactly what he said. Let the Capitol and the
districts run one another into the ground and then sauntered
in to take power. Even if that was her plan, it doesn't mean
she dropped those parachutes. Victory was already in her
grasp. Everything was in her grasp.
Except me.
I recall Boggs's response when I admitted I hadn't put
much thought into Snow's successor. "If your immediate
answer isn't Coin, then you're a threat. You're the face of
the rebellion. You may have more influence than any
other single person. Outwardly, the most you've ever done
is tolerated her."
Suddenly, I'm thinking of Prim, who was not yet
fourteen, not yet old enough to be granted the title of
soldier, but somehow working on the front lines. How did
such a thing happen? That my sister would have wanted to
be there, I have no doubt. That she would be more capable
than many older than she is a given. But for all that,
someone very high up would have had to approve putting a
thirteen-year-old in combat. Did Coin do it, hoping that
losing Prim would push me completely over the edge? Or,
at least, firmly on her side? I wouldn't even have had to
witness it in person. Numerous cameras would be covering
the City Circle. Capturing the moment forever.
No, now I am going crazy, slipping into some state of
paranoia. Too many people would know of the mission.
Word would get out. Or would it? Who would have to know
besides Coin, Plutarch, and a small, loyal or easily
disposable crew?
I badly need help working this out, only everyone I trust
is dead. Cinna. Boggs. Finnick. Prim. There's Peeta, but
he couldn't do any more than speculate, and who knows
what state his mind's in, anyway. And that leaves only Gale.
He's far away, but even if he were beside me, could I
confide in him? What could I say, how could I phrase it,
without implying that it was his bomb that killed Prim? The
impossibility of that idea, more than any, is why Snow must
be lying.
Ultimately, there's only one person to turn to who might
know what happened and might still be on my side. To
broach the subject at all will be a risk. But while I think
Haymitch might gamble with my life in the arena, I don't
think he'd rat me out to Coin. Whatever problems we may
have with each other, we prefer resolving our differences
one-on-one.
I scramble off the tiles, out the door, and across the hall
to his room. When there's no response to my knock, I push
inside. Ugh. It's amazing how quickly he can defile a space.
Half-eaten plates of food, shattered liquor bottles, and
pieces of broken furniture from a drunken rampage scatter
his quarters. He lies, unkempt and unwashed, in a tangle of
sheets on the bed, passed out.
"Haymitch," I say, shaking his leg. Of course, that's
insufficient. But I give it a few more tries before I dump the
pitcher of water in his face. He comes to with a gasp,
slashing blindly with his knife. Apparently, the end of Snow's
reign didn't equal the end of his terror.
"Oh. You," he says. I can tell by his voice that he's still
loaded.
"Haymitch," I begin.
"Listen to that. The Mockingjay found her voice." He
laughs. "Well, Plutarch's going to be happy." He takes a
swig from a bottle. "Why am I soaking wet?" I lamely drop
the pitcher behind me into a pile of dirty clothes.
"I need your help," I say.
Haymitch belches, filling the air with white liquor fumes.
"What is it, sweetheart? More boy trouble?" I don't know
why, but this hurts me in a way Haymitch rarely can. It must
show on my face, because even in his drunken state, he
tries to take it back. "Okay, not funny." I'm already at the
door. "Not funny! Come back!" By the thud of his body
hitting the floor, I assume he tried to follow me, but there's
no point.
I zigzag through the mansion and disappear into a
wardrobe full of silken things. I yank them from hangers until
I have a pile and then burrow into it. In the lining of my
pocket, I find a stray morphling tablet and swallow it dry,
heading off my rising hysteria. It's not enough to right things,
though. I hear Haymitch calling me in the distance, but he
won't find me in his condition. Especially not in this new
spot. Swathed in silk, I feel like a caterpillar in a cocoon
awaiting metamorphosis. I always supposed that to be a
peaceful condition. At first it is. But as I journey into night, I
feel more and more trapped, suffocated by the slippery
bindings, unable to emerge until I have transformed into
something of beauty. I squirm, trying to shed my ruined
body and unlock the secret to growing flawless wings.
Despite enormous effort, I remain a hideous creature, fired
into my current form by the blast from the bombs.
The encounter with Snow opens the door to my old
repertoire of nightmares. It's like being stung by tracker
jackers again. A wave of horrifying images with a brief
respite I confuse with waking--only to find another wave
knocking me back. When the guards finally locate me, I'm
sitting on the floor of the wardrobe, tangled in silk,
screaming my head off. I fight them at first, until they
convince me they're trying to help, peel away the choking
garments, and escort me back to my room. On the way, we
pass a window and I see a gray, snowy dawn spreading
across the Capitol.
A very hungover Haymitch waits with a handful of pills
and a tray of food that neither of us has the stomach for. He
makes a feeble attempt to get me to talk again but, seeing
it's pointless, sends me to a bath someone has drawn. The
tub's deep, with three steps to the bottom. I ease down into
the warm water and sit, up to my neck in suds, hoping the
medicines kick in soon. My eyes focus on the rose that has
spread its petals overnight, filling the steamy air with its
strong perfume. I rise and reach for a towel to smother it,
when there's a tentative knock and the bathroom door
opens, revealing three familiar faces. They try to smile at
me, but even Venia can't conceal her shock at my ravaged
mutt body. "Surprise!" Octavia squeaks, and then bursts
into tears. I'm puzzling over their reappearance when I
realize that this must be it, the day of the execution. They've
come to prep me for the cameras. Remake me to Beauty
Base Zero. No wonder Octavia's crying. It's an impossible
task.
They can barely touch my patchwork of skin for fear of
hurting me, so I rinse and dry off myself. I tell them I hardly
notice the pain anymore, but Flavius still winces as he
drapes a robe around me. In the bedroom, I find another
surprise. Sitting upright in a chair. Polished from her
metallic gold wig to her patent leather high heels, gripping a
clipboard. Remarkably unchanged except for the vacant
look in her eyes.
"Effie," I say.
"Hello, Katniss." She stands and kisses me on the
cheek as if nothing has occurred since our last meeting, the
night before the Quarter Quell. "Well, it looks like we've got
another big, big, big day ahead of us. So why don't you
start your prep and I'll just pop over and check on the
arrangements."
"Okay," I say to her back.
"They say Plutarch and Haymitch had a hard time
keeping her alive," comments Venia under her breath. "She
was imprisoned after your escape, so that helps."
It's quite a stretch. Effie Trinket, rebel. But I don't want
Coin killing her, so I make a mental note to present her that
way if asked. "I guess it's good Plutarch kidnapped you
three after all."
"We're the only prep team still alive. And all the stylists
from the Quarter Quell are dead," says Venia. She doesn't
say who specifically killed them. I'm beginning to wonder if
it matters. She gingerly takes one of my scarred hands and
holds it out for inspection. "Now, what do you think for the
nails? Red or maybe a jet black?"
Flavius performs some beauty miracle on my hair,
managing to even out the front while getting some of the
longer locks to hide the bald spots in the back. My face,
since it was spared from the flames, presents no more than
the usual challenges. Once I'm in Cinna's Mockingjay suit,
the only scars visible are on my neck, forearms, and hands.
Octavia secures my Mockingjay pin over my heart and we
step back to look in the mirror. I can't believe how normal
they've made me look on the outside when inwardly I'm
such a wasteland.
There's a tap at the door and Gale steps in. "Can I
have a minute?" he asks. In the mirror, I watch my prep
team. Unsure of where to go, they bump into one another a
few times and then closet themselves in the bathroom. Gale
comes up behind me and we examine each other's
reflection. I'm searching for something to hang on to, some
sign of the girl and boy who met by chance in the woods
five years ago and became inseparable. I'm wondering
what would have happened to them if the Hunger Games
had not reaped the girl. If she would have fallen in love with
the boy, married him even. And sometime in the future,
when the brothers and sisters had been raised up,
escaped with him into the woods and left 12 behind forever.
Would they have been happy, out in the wild, or would the
dark, twisted sadness between them have grown up even
without the Capitol's help?
"I brought you this." Gale holds up a sheath. When I
take it, I notice it holds a single, ordinary arrow. "It's
supposed to be symbolic. You firing the last shot of the
war."
"What if I miss?" I say. "Does Coin retrieve it and bring
it back to me? Or just shoot Snow through the head
herself?"
"You won't miss." Gale adjusts the sheath on my
shoulder.
We stand there, face-to-face, not meeting each other's
eyes. "You didn't come see me in the hospital." He doesn't
answer, so finally I just say it. "Was it your bomb?"
"I don't know. Neither does Beetee," he says. "Does it
matter? You'll always be thinking about it."
He waits for me to deny it; I want to deny it, but it's true.
Even now I can see the flash that ignites her, feel the heat of
the flames. And I will never be able to separate that
moment from Gale. My silence is my answer.
"That was the one thing I had going for me. Taking
care of your family," he says. "Shoot straight, okay?" He
touches my cheek and leaves. I want to call him back and
tell him that I was wrong. That I'll figure out a way to make
peace with this. To remember the circumstances under
which he created the bomb. Take into account my own
inexcusable crimes. Dig up the truth about who dropped the
parachutes. Prove it wasn't the rebels. Forgive him. But
since I can't, I'll just have to deal with the pain.
Effie comes in to usher me to some kind of meeting. I
collect my bow and at the last minute remember the rose,
glistening in its glass of water. When I open the door to the
bathroom, I find my prep team sitting in a row on the edge
of the tub, hunched and defeated. I remember I'm not the
only one whose world has been stripped away. "Come on,"
I tell them. "We've got an audience waiting."
I'm expecting a production meeting in which Plutarch
instructs me where to stand and gives me my cue for
shooting Snow. Instead, I find myself sent into a room
where six people sit around a table. Peeta, Johanna,
Beetee, Haymitch, Annie, and Enobaria. They all wear the
gray rebel uniforms from 13. No one looks particularly well.
"What's this?" I say.
"We're not sure," Haymitch answers. "It appears to be
a gathering of the remaining victors."
"We're all that's left?" I ask.
"The price of celebrity," says Beetee. "We were
targeted from both sides. The Capitol killed the victors they
suspected of being rebels. The rebels killed those thought
to be allied with the Capitol."
Johanna scowls at Enobaria. "So what's she doing
here?"
"She is protected under what we call the Mockingjay
Deal," says Coin as she enters behind me. "Wherein
Katniss Everdeen agreed to support the rebels in
exchange for captured victors' immunity. Katniss has
upheld her side of the bargain, and so shall we."
Enobaria smiles at Johanna. "Don't look so smug,"
says Johanna. "We'll kill you anyway."
"Sit down, please, Katniss," says Coin, closing the
door. I take a seat between Annie and Beetee, carefully
placing Snow's rose on the table. As usual, Coin gets right
to the point. "I've asked you here to settle a debate. Today
we will execute Snow. In the previous weeks, hundreds of
his accomplices in the oppression of Panem have been
tried and now await their own deaths. However, the
suffering in the districts has been so extreme that these
measures appear insufficient to the victims. In fact, many
are calling for a complete annihilation of those who held
Capitol citizenship. However, in the interest of maintaining
a sustainable population, we cannot afford this."
Through the water in the glass, I see a distorted image
of one of Peeta's hands. The burn marks. We are both fire
mutts now. My eyes travel up to where the flames licked
across his forehead, singeing away his brows but just
missing his eyes. Those same blue eyes that used to meet
mine and then flit away at school. Just as they do now.
"So, an alternative has been placed on the table.
Since my colleagues and I can come to no consensus, it
has been agreed that we will let the victors decide. A
majority of four will approve the plan. No one may abstain
from the vote," says Coin. "What has been proposed is that
in lieu of eliminating the entire Capitol population, we have
a final, symbolic Hunger Games, using the children directly
related to those who held the most power."
All seven of us turn to her. "What?" says Johanna.
"We hold another Hunger Games using Capitol
children," says Coin.
"Are you joking?" asks Peeta.
"No. I should also tell you that if we do hold the Games,
it will be known it was done with your approval, although the
individual breakdown of your votes will be kept secret for
your own security," Coin tells us.
"Was this Plutarch's idea?" asks Haymitch.
"It was mine," says Coin. "It seemed to balance the
need for vengeance with the least loss of life. You may cast
your votes."
"No!" bursts out Peeta. "I vote no, of course! We can't
have another Hunger Games!"
"Why not?" Johanna retorts. "It seems very fair to me.
Snow even has a granddaughter. I vote yes."
"So do I," says Enobaria, almost indifferently. "Let
them have a taste of their own medicine."
"This is why we rebelled! Remember?" Peeta looks at
the rest of us. "Annie?"
"I vote no with Peeta," she says. "So would Finnick if
he were here."
"But he isn't, because Snow's mutts killed him,"
Johanna reminds her.
"No," says Beetee. "It would set a bad precedent. We
have to stop viewing one another as enemies. At this point,
unity is essential for our survival. No."
"We're down to Katniss and Haymitch," says Coin.
Was it like this then? Seventy-five years or so ago?
Did a group of people sit around and cast their votes on
initiating the Hunger Games? Was there dissent? Did
someone make a case for mercy that was beaten down by
the calls for the deaths of the districts' children? The scent
of Snow's rose curls up into my nose, down into my throat,
squeezing it tight with despair. All those people I loved,
dead, and we are discussing the next Hunger Games in an
attempt to avoid wasting life. Nothing has changed. Nothing
will ever change now.
I weigh my options carefully, think everything through.
Keeping my eyes on the rose, I say, "I vote yes...for Prim."
"Haymitch, it's up to you," says Coin.
A furious Peeta hammers Haymitch with the atrocity he
could become party to, but I can feel Haymitch watching
me. This is the moment, then. When we find out exactly just
how alike we are, and how much he truly understands me.
"I'm with the Mockingjay," he says.
"Excellent. That carries the vote," says Coin. "Now we
really must take our places for the execution."
As she passes me, I hold up the glass with the rose.
"Can you see that Snow's wearing this? Just over his
heart?"
Coin smiles. "Of course. And I'll make sure he knows
about the Games."
"Thank you," I say.
People sweep into the room, surround me. The last
touch of powder, the instructions from Plutarch as I'm
guided to the front doors of the mansion. The City Circle
runs over, spills people down the side streets. The others
take their places outside. Guards. Officials. Rebel leaders.
Victors. I hear the cheers that indicate Coin has appeared
on the balcony. Then Effie taps my shoulder, and I step out
into the cold winter sunlight. Walk to my position,
accompanied by the deafening roar of the crowd. As
directed, I turn so they see me in profile, and wait. When
they march Snow out the door, the audience goes insane.
They secure his hands behind a post, which is
unnecessary. He's not going anywhere. There's nowhere to
go. This is not the roomy stage before the Training Center
but the narrow terrace in front of the president's mansion.
No wonder no one bothered to have me practice. He's ten
yards away.
I feel the bow purring in my hand. Reach back and
grasp the arrow. Position it, aim at the rose, but watch his
face. He coughs and a bloody dribble runs down his chin.
His tongue flicks over his puffy lips. I search his eyes for the
slightest sign of anything, fear, remorse, anger. But there's
only the same look of amusement that ended our last
conversation. It's as if he's speaking the words again. "Oh,
my dear Miss Everdeen. I thought we had agreed not to
lie to each other."
He's right. We did.
The point of my arrow shifts upward. I release the
string. And President Coin collapses over the side of the
balcony and plunges to the ground. Dead.
27
In the stunned reaction that follows, I'm aware of one
sound. Snow's laughter. An awful gurgling cackle
accompanied by an eruption of foamy blood when the
coughing begins. I see him bend forward, spewing out his
life, until the guards block him from my sight.
As the gray uniforms begin to converge on me, I think
of what my brief future as the assassin of Panem's new
president holds. The interrogation, probable torture, certain
public execution. Having, yet again, to say my final
goodbyes to the handful of people who still maintain a hold
on my heart. The prospect of facing my mother, who will
now be entirely alone in the world, decides it.
"Good night," I whisper to the bow in my hand and feel
it go still. I raise my left arm and twist my neck down to rip
off the pill on my sleeve. Instead my teeth sink into flesh. I
yank my head back in confusion to find myself looking into
Peeta's eyes, only now they hold my gaze. Blood runs from
the teeth marks on the hand he clamped over my nightlock.
"Let me go!" I snarl at him, trying to wrest my arm from his
grasp.
"I can't," he says. As they pull me away from him, I feel
the pocket ripped from my sleeve, see the deep violet pill
fall to the ground, watch Cinna's last gift get crunched under
a guard's boot. I transform into a wild animal, kicking,
clawing, biting, doing whatever I can to free myself from this
web of hands as the crowd pushes in. The guards lift me up
above the fray, where I continue to thrash as I'm conveyed
over the crush of people. I start screaming for Gale. I can't
find him in the throng, but he will know what I want. A good
clean shot to end it all. Only there's no arrow, no bullet. Is it
possible he can't see me? No. Above us, on the giant
screens placed around the City Circle, everyone can watch
the whole thing being played out. He sees, he knows, but
he doesn't follow through. Just as I didn't when he was
captured. Sorry excuses for hunters and friends. Both of us.
I'm on my own.
In the mansion, they handcuff and blindfold me. I'm half
dragged, half carried down long passages, up and down
elevators, and deposited on a carpeted floor. The cuffs are
removed and a door slams closed behind me. When I push
the blindfold up, I find I'm in my old room at the Training
Center. The one where I lived during those last precious
days before my first Hunger Games and the Quarter Quell.
The bed's stripped to the mattress, the closet gapes open,
showing the emptiness inside, but I'd know this room
anywhere.
It's a struggle to get to my feet and peel off my
Mockingjay suit. I'm badly bruised and might have a broken
finger or two, but it's my skin that's paid most dearly for my
struggle with the guards. The new pink stuff has shredded
like tissue paper and blood seeps through the laboratorygrown
cells. No medics show up, though, and as I'm too far
gone to care, I crawl up onto the mattress, expecting to
bleed to death.
No such luck. By evening, the blood clots, leaving me
stiff and sore and sticky but alive. I limp into the shower and
program in the gentlest cycle I can remember, free of any
soaps and hair products, and squat under the warm spray,
elbows on my knees, head in my hands.
My name is Katniss Everdeen. Why am I not dead? I
should be dead. It would be best for everyone if I were
dead....
When I step out on the mat, the hot air bakes my
damaged skin dry. There's nothing clean to put on. Not
even a towel to wrap around me. Back in the room, I find
the Mockingjay suit has disappeared. In its place is a paper
robe. A meal has been sent up from the mysterious kitchen
with a container of my medications for dessert. I go ahead
and eat the food, take the pills, rub the salve on my skin. I
need to focus now on the manner of my suicide.
I curl back up on the bloodstained mattress, not cold
but feeling so naked with just the paper to cover my tender
flesh. Jumping to my death's not an option--the window
glass must be a foot thick. I can make an excellent noose,
but there's nothing to hang myself from. It's possible I could
hoard my pills and then knock myself off with a lethal dose,
except that I'm sure I'm being watched round the clock. For
all I know, I'm on live television at this very moment while
commentators try to analyze what could possibly have
motivated me to kill Coin. The surveillance makes almost
any suicide attempt impossible. Taking my life is the
Capitol's privilege. Again.
What I can do is give up. I resolve to lie on the bed
without eating, drinking, or taking my medications. I could
do it, too. Just die. If it weren't for the morphling withdrawal.
Not bit by bit like in the hospital in 13, but cold turkey. I must
have been on a fairly large dose because when the craving
for it hits, accompanied by tremors, and shooting pains,
and unbearable cold, my resolve's crushed like an eggshell.
I'm on my knees, raking the carpet with my fingernails to
find those precious pills I flung away in a stronger moment. I
revise my suicide plan to slow death by morphling. I will
become a yellow-skinned bag of bones, with enormous
eyes. I'm a couple of days into the plan, making good
progress, when something unexpected happens.
I begin to sing. At the window, in the shower, in my
sleep. Hour after hour of ballads, love songs, mountain airs.
All the songs my father taught me before he died, for
certainly there has been very little music in my life since.
What's amazing is how clearly I remember them. The tunes,
the lyrics. My voice, at first rough and breaking on the high
notes, warms up into something splendid. A voice that
would make the mockingjays fall silent and then tumble over
themselves to join in. Days pass, weeks. I watch the snows
fall on the ledge outside my window. And in all that time,
mine is the only voice I hear.
What are they doing, anyway? What's the holdup out
there? How difficult can it be to arrange the execution of
one murderous girl? I continue with my own annihilation. My
body's thinner than it's ever been and my battle against
hunger is so fierce that sometimes the animal part of me
gives in to the temptation of buttered bread or roasted
meat. But still, I'm winning. For a few days I feel quite unwell
and think I may finally be traveling out of this life, when I
realize my morphling tablets are shrinking. They are trying
to slowly wean me off the stuff. But why? Surely a drugged
Mockingjay will be easier to dispose of in front of a crowd.
And then a terrible thought hits me: What if they're not going
to kill me? What if they have more plans for me? A new way
to remake, train, and use me?
I won't do it. If I can't kill myself in this room, I will take
the first opportunity outside of it to finish the job. They can
fatten me up. They can give me a full body polish, dress me
up, and make me beautiful again. They can design dream
weapons that come to life in my hands, but they will never
again brainwash me into the necessity of using them. I no
longer feel any allegiance to these monsters called human
beings, despise being one myself. I think that Peeta was
onto something about us destroying one another and letting
some decent species take over. Because something is
significantly wrong with a creature that sacrifices its
children's lives to settle its differences. You can spin it any
way you like. Snow thought the Hunger Games were an
efficient means of control. Coin thought the parachutes
would expedite the war. But in the end, who does it benefit?
No one. The truth is, it benefits no one to live in a world
where these things happen.
After two days of my lying on my mattress with no
attempt to eat, drink, or even take a morphling tablet, the
door to my room opens. Someone crosses around the bed
into my field of vision. Haymitch. "Your trial's over," he says.
"Come on. We're going home."
Home? What's he talking about? My home's gone.
And even if it were possible to go to this imaginary place, I
am too weak to move. Strangers appear. Rehydrate and
feed me. Bathe and clothe me. One lifts me like a rag doll
and carries me up to the roof, onto a hovercraft, and
fastens me into a seat. Haymitch and Plutarch sit across
from me. In a few moments, we're airborne.
I've never seen Plutarch in such a good mood. He's
positively glowing. "You must have a million questions!"
When I don't respond, he answers them anyway.
After I shot Coin, there was pandemonium. When the
ruckus died down, they discovered Snow's body, still
tethered to the post. Opinions differ on whether he choked
to death while laughing or was crushed by the crowd. No
one really cares. An emergency election was thrown
together and Paylor was voted in as president. Plutarch
was appointed secretary of communications, which means
he sets the programming for the airwaves. The first big
televised event was my trial, in which he was also a star
witness. In my defense, of course. Although most of the
credit for my exoneration must be given to Dr. Aurelius, who
apparently earned his naps by presenting me as a
hopeless, shell-shocked lunatic. One condition for my
release is that I'll continue under his care, although it will
have to be by phone because he'd never live in a forsaken
place like 12, and I'm confined there until further notice. The
truth is, no one quite knows what to do with me now that the
war's over, although if another one should spring up,
Plutarch's sure they could find a role for me. Then Plutarch
has a good laugh. It never seems to bother him when no
one else appreciates his jokes.
"Are you preparing for another war, Plutarch?" I ask.
"Oh, not now. Now we're in that sweet period where
everyone agrees that our recent horrors should never be
repeated," he says. "But collective thinking is usually shortlived.
We're fickle, stupid beings with poor memories and a
great gift for self-destruction. Although who knows? Maybe
this will be it, Katniss."
"What?" I ask.
"The time it sticks. Maybe we are witnessing the
evolution of the human race. Think about that." And then he
asks me if I'd like to perform on a new singing program he's
launching in a few weeks. Something upbeat would be
good. He'll send the crew to my house.
We land briefly in District 3 to drop off Plutarch. He's
meeting with Beetee to update the technology on the
broadcast system. His parting words to me are "Don't be a
stranger."
When we're back among the clouds, I look at
Haymitch. "So why are you going back to Twelve?"
"They can't seem to find a place for me in the Capitol
either," he says.
At first, I don't question this. But doubts begin to creep
in. Haymitch hasn't assassinated anyone. He could go
anywhere. If he's coming back to 12, it's because he's been
ordered to. "You have to look after me, don't you? As my
mentor?" He shrugs. Then I realize what it means. "My
mother's not coming back."
"No," he says. He pulls an envelope from his jacket
pocket and hands it to me. I examine the delicate, perfectly
formed writing. "She's helping to start up a hospital in
District Four. She wants you to call as soon as we get in."
My finger traces the graceful swoop of the letters. "You
know why she can't come back." Yes, I know why. Because
between my father and Prim and the ashes, the place is too
painful to bear. But apparently not for me. "Do you want to
know who else won't be there?"
"No," I say. "I want to be surprised."
Like a good mentor, Haymitch makes me eat a
sandwich and then pretends he believes I'm asleep for the
rest of the trip. He busies himself going through every
compartment on the hovercraft, finding the liquor, and
stowing it in his bag. It's night when we land on the green of
the Victor's Village. Half of the houses have lights in the
windows, including Haymitch's and mine. Not Peeta's.
Someone has built a fire in my kitchen. I sit in the rocker
before it, clutching my mother's letter.
"Well, see you tomorrow," says Haymitch.
As the clinking of his bag of liquor bottles fades away, I
whisper, "I doubt it."
I am unable to move from the chair. The rest of the
house looms cold and empty and dark. I pull an old shawl
over my body and watch the flames. I guess I sleep,
because the next thing I know, it's morning and Greasy
Sae's banging around at the stove. She makes me eggs
and toast and sits there until I've eaten it all. We don't talk
much. Her little granddaughter, the one who lives in her own
world, takes a bright blue ball of yarn from my mother's
knitting basket. Greasy Sae tells her to put it back, but I say
she can have it. No one in this house can knit anymore.
After breakfast, Greasy Sae does the dishes and leaves,
but she comes back up at dinnertime to make me eat
again. I don't know if she's just being neighborly or if she's
on the government's payroll, but she shows up twice every
day. She cooks, I consume. I try to figure out my next move.
There's no obstacle now to taking my life. But I seem to be
waiting for something.
Sometimes the phone rings and rings and rings, but I
don't pick it up. Haymitch never visits. Maybe he changed
his mind and left, although I suspect he's just drunk. No one
comes but Greasy Sae and her granddaughter. After
months of solitary confinement, they seem like a crowd.
"Spring's in the air today. You ought to get out," she
says. "Go hunting."
I haven't left the house. I haven't even left the kitchen
except to go to the small bathroom a few steps off of it. I'm
in the same clothes I left the Capitol in. What I do is sit by
the fire. Stare at the unopened letters piling up on the
mantel. "I don't have a bow."
"Check down the hall," she says.
After she leaves, I consider a trip down the hall. Rule it
out. But after several hours, I go anyway, walking in silent
