
“Fang’s in there, yer evil — !” Hagrid bellowed. 

“Cruc — ” yelled Harry for the second time, aiming for 
the figure ahead illuminated in the dancing firelight, 
but Snape blocked the spell again. Harry could see 
him sneering. 

“No Unforgivable Curses from you, Potter!” he 
shouted over the rushing of the flames, Hagrid’s yells, 
and the wild yelping of the trapped Fang. “You haven’t 
got the nerve or the ability — ” 

“Incarc — ” Harry roared, but Snape deflected the spell 
with an almost lazy flick of his arm. 

“Fight back!” Harry screamed at him. “Fight back, you 
cowardly — ” 

“Coward, did you call me, Potter?” shouted Snape. 
“Your father would never attack me unless it was four 
on one, what would you call him, I wonder?” 

“ Stupe — ” 

“Blocked again and again and again until you learn to 
keep your mouth shut and your mind closed, Potter!” 
sneered Snape, deflecting the curse once more. “Now 
come!” he shouted at the huge Death Eater behind 
Harry. “It is time to be gone, before the Ministry turns 
up — ” 



“Impedi — ” 

But before he could finish this jinx, excruciating pain 
hit Harry; he keeled over in the grass. Someone was 
screaming, he would surely die of this agony, Snape 
was going to torture him to death or madness — 



Page | 677 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No!” roared Snape’s voice and the pain stopped as 
suddenly as it had started; Harry lay curled on the 
dark grass, clutching his wand and panting; 
somewhere overhead Snape was shouting, “Have you 
forgotten our orders? Potter belongs to the Dark Lord 
— we are to leave him! Go! Go!” 

And Harry felt the ground shudder under his face as 
the brother and sister and the enormous Death Eater 
obeyed, running toward the gates. Harry uttered an 
inarticulate yell of rage: In that instant, he cared not 
whether he lived or died. Pushing himself to his feet 
again, he staggered blindly toward Snape, the man he 
now hated as much as he hated Voldemort himself — 

“Sectum — !” 

Snape flicked his wand and the curse was repelled yet 
again; but Harry was mere feet away now and he 
could see Snape’s face clearly at last: He was no 
longer sneering or jeering; the blazing flames showed 
a face full of rage. Mustering all his powers of 
concentration, Harry thought, Levi — 

“No, Potter!” screamed Snape. There was a loud BANG 
and Harry was soaring backward, hitting the ground 
hard again, and this time his wand flew out of his 
hand. He could hear Hagrid yelling and Fang howling 
as Snape closed in and looked down on him where he 
lay, wandless and defenseless as Dumbledore had 
been. Snape’s pale face, illuminated by the flaming 
cabin, was suffused with hatred just as it had been 
before he had cursed Dumbledore. 

“You dare use my own spells against me, Potter? It 
was I who invented them — I, the Half-Blood Prince! 
And you’d turn my inventions on me, like your filthy 
father, would you? I don’t think so ... no!” 



Page | 678 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had dived for his wand; Snape shot a hex at it 
and it flew feet away into the darkness and out of 
sight. 

“Kill me then,” panted Harry, who felt no fear at all, 
but only rage and contempt. “Kill me like you killed 
him, you coward — ” 

“DONT — ” screamed Snape, and his face was 
suddenly demented, inhuman, as though he was in 
as much pain as the yelping, howling dog stuck in the 
burning house behind them — “CALL ME COWARD!” 

And he slashed at the air: Harry felt a white-hot, 
whiplike something hit him across the face and was 
slammed backward into the ground. Spots of light 
burst in front of his eyes and for a moment all the 
breath seemed to have gone from his body, then he 
heard a rush of wings above him and something 
enormous obscured the stars. Buckbeak had flown at 
Snape, who staggered backward as the razor-sharp 
claws slashed at him. As Harry raised himself into a 
sitting position, his head still swimming from its last 
contact with the ground, he saw Snape running as 
hard as he could, the enormous beast flapping behind 
him and screeching as Harry had never heard him 
screech — 

Harry struggled to his feet, looking around groggily for 
his wand, hoping to give chase again, but even as his 
fingers fumbled in the grass, discarding twigs, he 
knew it would be too late, and sure enough, by the 
time he had located his wand, he turned only to see 
the hippogriff circling the gates. Snape had managed 
to Disapparate just beyond the school’s boundaries. 

“Hagrid,” muttered Harry, still dazed, looking around. 
“HAGRID?” 



Page | 679 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




He stumbled toward the burning house as an 
enormous figure emerged from out of the flames 
carrying Fang on his back. With a cry of 
thankfulness, Harry sank to his knees; he was 
shaking in every limb, his body ached all over, and 
his breath came in painful stabs. 

“Yeh all righ’, Harry? Yeh all righ’? Speak ter me, 
Harry. ...” 

Hagrid’s huge, hairy face was swimming above Harry, 
blocking out the stars. Harry could smell burnt wood 
and dog hair; he put out a hand and felt Fang’s 
reassuringly warm and alive body quivering beside 
him. 

“I’m all right,” panted Harry. “Are you?” 

“ ’Course I am ... take more’n that ter finish me.” 

Hagrid put his hands under Harry’s arms and raised 
him up with such force that Harry’s feet momentarily 
left the ground before Hagrid set him upright again. 

He could see blood trickling down Hagrid’s cheek 
from a deep cut under one eye, which was swelling 
rapidly. 

“We should put out your house,” said Harry, “the 
charm’s ‘Aguamenti’ ...” 

“Knew it was summat like that,” mumbled Hagrid, 
and he raised a smoldering pink, flowery umbrella 
and said, “Aguamenti\” 

A jet of water flew out of the umbrella tip. Harry 
raised his wand arm, which felt like lead, and 
murmured “Aguamenti’ too: Together, he and Hagrid 
poured water on the house until the last flame was 
extinguished. 

Page | 680 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“S’not too bad,” said Hagrid hopefully a few minutes 
later, looking at the smoking wreck. “Nothin’ 
Dumbledore won’ be able to put righ’ ...” 

Harry felt a searing pain in his stomach at the sound 
of the name. In the silence and the stillness, horror 
rose inside him. 

“Hagrid ...” 

“I was bindin’ up a couple o’ bowtruckle legs when I 
heard ’em cornin’,” said Hagrid sadly, still staring at 
his wrecked cabin. “They’ll’ve bin burnt ter twigs, 
poor little things. ...” 

“Hagrid ...” 

“But what happened, Harry? I jus’ saw them Death 
Eaters runnin’ down from the castle, but what the 
ruddy hell was Snape doin’ with ’em? Where’s he gone 
— was he chasin’ them?” 

“He ...” Harry cleared his throat; it was dry from panic 
and the smoke. “Hagrid, he killed ...” 

“Killed?” said Hagrid loudly, staring down at Harry. 
“Snape killed? What’re yeh on abou’, Harry?” 

“Dumbledore,” said Harry. “Snape killed ... 
Dumbledore.” 

Hagrid simply looked at him, the little of his face that 
could be seen completely blank, uncomprehending. 

“Dumbledore wha’, Harry?” 

“He’s dead. Snape killed him. ...” 



Page | 681 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’ say that,” said Hagrid roughly. “Snape kill 
Dumbledore — don’ be stupid, Harry. Wha’s made 
yeh say tha’?” 

“I saw it happen.” 

“Yeh couldn’ have.” 

“I saw it, Hagrid.” 

Hagrid shook his head; his expression was 
disbelieving but sympathetic, and Harry knew that 
Hagrid thought he had sustained a blow to the head, 
that he was confused, perhaps by the aftereffects of a 
jinx. ... 

“What musta happened was, Dumbledore musta told 
Snape ter go with them Death Eaters,” Hagrid said 
confidently. “I suppose he’s gotta keep his cover. 

Look, let’s get yeh back up ter the school. Come on, 
Harry. ...” 

Harry did not attempt to argue or explain. He was still 
shaking uncontrollably. Hagrid would find out soon 
enough, too soon. ... As they directed their steps back 
toward the castle, Harry saw that many of its 
windows were lit now. He could imagine, clearly, the 
scenes inside as people moved from room to room, 
telling each other that Death Eaters had got in, that 
the Mark was shining over Hogwarts, that somebody 
must have been killed. ... 

The oak front doors stood open ahead of them, light 
flooding out onto the drive and the lawn. Slowly, 
uncertainly, dressing-gowned people were creeping 
down the steps, looking around nervously for some 
sign of the Death Eaters who had fled into the night. 
Harry’s eyes, however, were fixed upon the ground at 
the foot of the tallest tower. He imagined that he 
Page | 682 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




could see a black, huddled mass lying in the grass 
there, though he was really too far away to see 
anything of the sort. Even as he stared wordlessly at 
the place where he thought Dumbledore ’s body must 
lie, however, he saw people beginning to move toward 
it. 

“What’re they all lookin’ at?” said Hagrid, as he and 
Harry approached the castle front, Fang keeping as 
close as he could to their ankles. “Wha’s tha’, lyin’ on 
the grass?” Hagrid added sharply, heading now 
toward the foot of the Astronomy Tower, where a 
small crowd was congregating. “See it, Harry? Righ’ at 
the foot o’ the tower? Under where the Mark ... Blimey 
... yeh don’ think someone got thrown — ?” 

Hagrid fell silent, the thought apparently too horrible 
to express aloud. Harry walked alongside him, feeling 
the aches and pains in his face and his legs where the 
various hexes of the last half hour had hit him, 
though in an oddly detached way, as though 
somebody near him was suffering them. What was 
real and inescapable was the awful pressing feeling in 
his chest. ... 

He and Hagrid moved, dreamlike, through the 
murmuring crowd to the very front, where the 
dumbstruck students and teachers had left a gap. 

Harry heard Hagrid ’s moan of pain and shock, but he 
did not stop; he walked slowly forward until he 
reached the place where Dumbledore lay and 
crouched down beside him. He had known there was 
no hope from the moment that the full Body-Bind 
Curse Dumbledore had placed upon him lifted, 
known that it could have happened only because its 
caster was dead, but there was still no preparation for 
seeing him here, spread-eagled, broken: the greatest 
wizard Harry had ever, or would ever, meet. 

Page | 683 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore’s eyes were closed; but for the strange 
angle of his arms and legs, he might have been 
sleeping. Harry reached out, straightened the half- 
moon spectacles upon the crooked nose, and wiped a 
trickle of blood from the mouth with his own sleeve. 
Then he gazed down at the wise old face and tried to 
absorb the enormous and incomprehensible truth: 
that never again would Dumbledore speak to him, 
never again could he help. ... 

The crowd murmured behind Harry. After what 
seemed like a long time, he became aware that he was 
kneeling upon something hard and looked down. 

The locket they had managed to steal so many hours 
before had fallen out of Dumbledore’s pocket. It had 
opened, perhaps due to the force with which it hit the 
ground. And although he could not feel more shock or 
horror or sadness than he felt already, Harry knew, 
as he picked it up, that there was something wrong. 



He turned the locket over in his hands. This was 
neither as large as the locket he remembered seeing 
in the Pensieve, nor were there any markings upon it, 
no sign of the ornate S that was supposed to be 
Slytherin’s mark. Moreover, there was nothing inside 
but for a scrap of folded parchment wedged tightly 
into the place where a portrait should have been. 

Automatically, without really thinking about what he 
was doing, Harry pulled out the fragment of 
parchment, opened it, and read by the light of the 
many wands that had now been lit behind him: 

To the Dark Lord 

I know I will be dead long before you read this 



Page | 684 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




but I want you to know that it was I who discovered 
your secret 

I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy it 
as soon as I can. 

I face death in the hope that when you meet your 
match, 

you will be mortal once more. 

R.A.B. 

Harry neither knew nor cared what the message 
meant. Only one thing mattered: This was not a 
Horcrux. Dumbledore had weakened himself by 
drinking that terrible potion for nothing. Harry 
crumpled the parchment in his hand, and his eyes 
burned with tears as behind him Fang began to howl. 



Page | 685 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




z? 




THE PHOENIX LAMENT 

“C’mere, Harry ...” 

“No.” 

“Yeh can’ stay here, Harry. ... Come on, now. ...” 

“No.” 

He did not want to leave Dumbledore’s side, he did 
not want to move anywhere. Hagrid’s hand on his 
shoulder was trembling. Then another voice said, 
“Harry, come on.” 

A much smaller and warmer hand had enclosed his 
and was pulling him upward. He obeyed its pressure 
without really thinking about it. Only as he walked 
blindly back through the crowd did he realize, from a 
trace of flowery scent on the air, that it was Ginny 
who was leading him back into the castle. 
Incomprehensible voices battered him, sobs and 
shouts and wails stabbed the night, but Harry and 
Ginny walked on, back up the steps into the entrance 
Page | 686 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



hall. Faces swam on the edges of Harry’s vision, 
people were peering at him, whispering, wondering, 
and Gryffindor rubies glistened on the floor like drops 
of blood as they made their way toward the marble 
staircase. 

“We’re going to the hospital wing,” said Ginny. 

“I’m not hurt,” said Harry. 

“It’s McGonagall’s orders,” said Ginny. “Everyone’s up 
there, Ron and Hermione and Lupin and everyone — ” 

Fear stirred in Harry’s chest again: He had forgotten 
the inert figures he had left behind. 

“Ginny, who else is dead?” 

“Don’t worry, none of us.” 

“But the Dark Mark — Malfoy said he stepped over a 
body — ” 

“He stepped over Bill, but it’s all right, he’s alive.” 

There was something in her voice, however, that 
Harry knew boded ill. 

“Are you sure?” 

“Of course I’m sure ... he’s a — a bit of a mess, that’s 
all. Greyback attacked him. Madam Pomfrey says he 
won’t — won’t look the same anymore. ...” 

Ginny ’s voice trembled a little. 

“We don’t really know what the aftereffects will be — I 
mean, Greyback being a werewolf, but not 
transformed at the time.” 

Page | 687 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But the others . . . There were other bodies on the 
ground. ...” 

“Neville and Professor Flitwick are both hurt, but 
Madam Pomfrey says they’ll be all right. And a Death 
Eater’s dead, he got hit by a Killing Curse that huge 
blond one was firing off everywhere — Harry, if we 
hadn’t had your Felix potion, I think we’d all have 
been killed, but everything seemed to just miss us — ” 

They had reached the hospital wing. Pushing open 
the doors, Harry saw Neville lying, apparently asleep, 
in a bed near the door. Ron, Hermione, Luna, Tonks, 
and Lupin were gathered around another bed near 
the far end of the ward. At the sound of the doors 
opening, they all looked up. Hermione ran to Harry 
and hugged him; Lupin moved forward too, looking 
anxious. 

“Are you all right, Harry?” 

“I’m fine. ... How’s Bill?” 

Nobody answered. Harry looked over Hermione’s 
shoulder and saw an unrecognizable face lying on 
Bill’s pillow, so badly slashed and ripped that he 
looked grotesque. Madam Pomfrey was dabbing at his 
wounds with some harsh-smelling green ointment. 
Harry remembered how Snape had mended Malfoy’s 
Sectumsempra wounds so easily with his wand. 

“Can’t you fix them with a charm or something?” he 
asked the matron. 

“No charm will work on these,” said Madam Pomfrey. 
“I’ve tried everything I know, but there is no cure for 
werewolf bites.” 



Page | 688 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But he wasn’t bitten at the full moon,” said Ron, who 
was gazing down into his brother’s face as though he 
could somehow force him to mend just by staring. 
“Greyback hadn’t transformed, so surely Bill won’t be 
a — a real — ?” 

He looked uncertainly at Lupin. 

“No, I don’t think that Bill will be a true werewolf,” 
said Lupin, “but that does not mean that there won’t 
be some contamination. Those are cursed wounds. 
They are unlikely ever to heal fully, and — and Bill 
might have some wolfish characteristics from now 
on.” 

“Dumbledore might know something that’d work, 
though,” Ron said. “Where is he? Bill fought those 
maniacs on Dumbledore’s orders, Dumbledore owes 
him, he can’t leave him in this state — ” 

“Ron — Dumbledore’s dead,” said Ginny. 

“No!” Lupin looked wildly from Ginny to Harry, as 
though hoping the latter might contradict her, but 
when Harry did not, Lupin collapsed into a chair 
beside Bill’s bed, his hands over his face. Harry had 
never seen Lupin lose control before; he felt as though 
he was intruding upon something private, indecent. 

He turned away and caught Ron’s eye instead, 
exchanging in silence a look that confirmed what 
Ginny had said. 

“How did he die?” whispered Tonks. “How did it 
happen?” 

“Snape killed him,” said Harry. “I was there, I saw it. 
We arrived back on the Astronomy Tower because 
that’s where the Mark was. ... Dumbledore was ill, he 
was weak, but I think he realized it was a trap when 

Page | 689 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




we heard footsteps running up the stairs. He 
immobilized me, I couldn’t do anything, I was under 
the Invisibility Cloak — and then Malfoy came 
through the door and disarmed him — ” 

Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth and Ron 
groaned. Luna’s mouth trembled. 

“ — more Death Eaters arrived — and then Snape — 
and Snape did it. The Avada Kedavra.” Harry couldn’t 
go on. 

Madam Pomfrey burst into tears. Nobody paid her 
any attention except Ginny, who whispered, “Shh! 
Listen!” 

Gulping, Madam Pomfrey pressed her fingers to her 
mouth, her eyes wide. Somewhere out in the 
darkness, a phoenix was singing in a way Harry had 
never heard before: a stricken lament of terrible 
beauty. And Harry felt, as he had felt about phoenix 
song before, that the music was inside him, not 
without: It was his own grief turned magically to song 
that echoed across the grounds and through the 
castle windows. 

How long they all stood there, listening, he did not 
know, nor why it seemed to ease their pain a little to 
listen to the sound of their mourning, but it felt like a 
long time later that the hospital door opened again 
and Professor McGonagall entered the ward. Like all 
the rest, she bore marks of the recent battle: There 
were grazes on her face and her robes were ripped. 

“Molly and Arthur are on their way,” she said, and the 
spell of the music was broken: Everyone roused 
themselves as though coming out of trances, turning 
again to look at Bill, or else to rub their own eyes, 
shake their heads. “Harry, what happened? According 
Page | 690 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




to Hagrid you were with Professor Dumbledore when 
he — when it happened. He says Professor Snape was 
involved in some — ” 

“Snape killed Dumbledore,” said Harry. 

She stared at him for a moment, then swayed 
alarmingly; Madam Pomfrey, who seemed to have 
pulled herself together, ran forward, conjuring a chair 
from thin air, which she pushed under McGonagall. 

“Snape,” repeated McGonagall faintly, falling into the 
chair. “We all wondered ... but he trusted ... always ... 
Snape ... I can’t believe it. ...” 

“Snape was a highly accomplished Occlumens,” said 
Lupin, his voice uncharacteristically harsh. “We 
always knew that.” 

“But Dumbledore swore he was on our side!” 
whispered Tonks. “I always thought Dumbledore 
must know something about Snape that we didn’t. ...” 

“He always hinted that he had an ironclad reason for 
trusting Snape,” muttered Professor McGonagall, now 
dabbing at the corners of her leaking eyes with a 
tartan- edged handkerchief. “I mean ... with Snape ’s 
history ... of course people were bound to wonder . . . 
but Dumbledore told me explicitly that Snape ’s 
repentance was absolutely genuine. ... Wouldn’t hear 
a word against him!” 

“I’d love to know what Snape told him to convince 
him,” said Tonks. 

“I know,” said Harry, and they all turned to look at 
him. “Snape passed Voldemort the information that 
made Voldemort hunt down my mum and dad. Then 
Snape told Dumbledore he hadn’t realized what he 

Page | 691 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




was doing, he was really sorry he’d done it, sorry that 
they were dead.” 

They all stared at him. 

“And Dumbledore believed that?” said Lupin 
incredulously. “Dumbledore believed Snape was sorry 
James was dead? Snape hated James. ...” 

“And he didn’t think my mother was worth a damn 
either,” said Harry, “because she was Muggle-born. ... 
‘Mudblood,’ he called her. ...” 

Nobody asked how Harry knew this. All of them 
seemed to be lost in horrified shock, trying to digest 
the monstrous truth of what had happened. 

“This is all my fault,” said Professor McGonagall 
suddenly. She looked disoriented, twisting her wet 
handkerchief in her hands. “My fault. I sent Filius to 
fetch Snape tonight, I actually sent for him to come 
and help us! If I hadn’t alerted Snape to what was 
going on, he might never have joined forces with the 
Death Eaters. I don’t think he knew they were there 
before Filius told him, I don’t think he knew they were 
coming.” 

“It isn’t your fault, Minerva,” said Lupin firmly. “We 
all wanted more help, we were glad to think Snape 
was on his way. ...” 

“So when he arrived at the fight, he joined in on the 
Death Eaters’ side?” asked Harry, who wanted every 
detail of Snape ’s duplicity and infamy, feverishly 
collecting more reasons to hate him, to swear 
vengeance. 

“I don’t know exactly how it happened,” said Professor 
McGonagall distractedly. “It’s all so confusing. ... 

Page | 692 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore had told us that he would be leaving the 
school for a few hours and that we were to patrol the 
corridors just in case ... Remus, Bill, and 
Nymphadora were to join us ... and so we patrolled. 

All seemed quiet. Every secret passageway out of the 
school was covered. We knew nobody could fly in. 
There were powerful enchantments on every entrance 
into the castle. I still don’t know how the Death 
Eaters can possibly have entered. ...” 

“I do,” said Harry, and he explained, briefly, about the 
pair of Vanishing Cabinets and the magical pathway 
they formed. “So they got in through the Room of 
Requirement.” 

Almost against his will he glanced from Ron to 
Hermione, both of whom looked devastated. 

“I messed up, Harry,” said Ron bleakly. “We did like 
you told us: We checked the Marauder’s Map and we 
couldn’t see Malfoy on it, so we thought he must be in 
the Room of Requirement, so me, Ginny, and Neville 
went to keep watch on it ... but Malfoy got past us.” 

“He came out of the room about an hour after we 
started keeping watch,” said Ginny. “He was on his 
own, clutching that awful shriveled arm — ” 

“His Hand of Glory,” said Ron. “Gives light only to the 
holder, remember?” 

“Anyway,” Ginny went on, “he must have been 
checking whether the coast was clear to let the Death 
Eaters out, because the moment he saw us he threw 
something into the air and it all went pitch-black — ” 

“ — Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder,” said Ron 
bitterly. “Fred and George’s. I’m going to be having a 



Page | 693 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




word with them about who they let buy their 
products.” 

“We tried everything, Lumos, Incendio,” said Ginny. 
“Nothing would penetrate the darkness; all we could 
do was grope our way out of the corridor again, and 
meanwhile we could hear people rushing past us. 
Obviously Malfoy could see because of that hand 
thing and was guiding them, but we didn’t dare use 
any curses or anything in case we hit each other, and 
by the time we’d reached a corridor that was light, 
they’d gone.” 

“Luckily,” said Lupin hoarsely, “Ron, Ginny, and 
Neville ran into us almost immediately and told us 
what had happened. We found the Death Eaters 
minutes later, heading in the direction of the 
Astronomy Tower. Malfoy obviously hadn’t expected 
more people to be on the watch; he seemed to have 
exhausted his supply of Darkness Powder, at any 
rate. A fight broke out, they scattered and we gave 
chase. One of them, Gibbon, broke away and headed 
up the tower stairs — ” 

“To set off the Mark?” asked Harry. 

“He must have done, yes, they must have arranged 
that before they left the Room of Requirement,” said 
Lupin. “But I don’t think Gibbon liked the idea of 
waiting up there alone for Dumbledore, because he 
came running back downstairs to rejoin the fight and 
was hit by a Killing Curse that just missed me.” 

“So if Ron was watching the Room of Requirement 
with Ginny and Neville,” said Harry, turning to 
Hermione, “were you — ?” 

“Outside Snape’s office, yes,” whispered Hermione, 
her eyes sparkling with tears, “with Luna. We hung 

Page | 694 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




around for ages outside it and nothing happened. ... 
We didn’t know what was going on upstairs, Ron had 
taken the map. ... It was nearly midnight when 
Professor Flitwick came sprinting down into the 
dungeons. He was shouting about Death Eaters in 
the castle, I don’t think he really registered that Luna 
and I were there at all, he just burst his way into 
Snape’s office and we heard him saying that Snape 
had to go back with him and help and then we heard 
a loud thump and Snape came hurtling out of his 
room and he saw us and — and — ” 

“What?” Harry urged her. 

“I was so stupid, Harry!” said Hermione in a high- 
pitched whisper. “He said Professor Flitwick had 
collapsed and that we should go and take care of him 
while he — while he went to help fight the Death 
Eaters — ” She covered her face in shame and 
continued to talk into her fingers, so that her voice 
was muffled. “We went into his office to see if we 
could help Professor Flitwick and found him 
unconscious on the floor ... and oh, it’s so obvious 
now, Snape must have Stupefied Flitwick, but we 
didn’t realize, Harry, we didn’t realize, we just let 
Snape go!” 

“It’s not your fault,” said Lupin firmly. “Hermione, 
had you not obeyed Snape and got out of the way, he 
probably would have killed you and Luna.” 

“So then he came upstairs,” said Harry, who was 
watching Snape running up the marble staircase in 
his mind’s eye, his black robes billowing behind him 
as ever, pulling his wand from under his cloak as he 
ascended, “and he found the place where you were all 
fighting. ...” 



Page | 695 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“We were in trouble, we were losing,” said Tonks in a 
low voice. “Gibbon was down, but the rest of the 
Death Eaters seemed ready to fight to the death. 
Neville had been hurt, Bill had been savaged by 
Greyback ... It was all dark . . . curses flying 
everywhere ... The Malfoy boy had vanished, he must 
have slipped past, up the stairs ... then more of them 
ran after him, but one of them blocked the stair 
behind them with some kind of curse. ... Neville ran 
at it and got thrown up into the air — ” 

“None of us could break through,” said Ron, “and that 
massive Death Eater was still firing off jinxes all over 
the place, they were bouncing off the walls and barely 
missing us. ...” 

“And then Snape was there,” said Tonks, “and then 
he wasn’t — ” 

“I saw him running toward us, but that huge Death 
Eater’s jinx just missed me right afterward and I 
ducked and lost track of things,” said Ginny. 

“I saw him run straight through the cursed barrier as 
though it wasn’t there,” said Lupin. “I tried to follow 
him, but was thrown back just like Neville. ...” 

“He must have known a spell we didn’t,” whispered 
McGonagall. “After all — he was the Defense Against 
the Dark Arts teacher. ... I just assumed that he was 
in a hurry to chase after the Death Eaters who’d 
escaped up to the tower. ...” 

“He was,” said Harry savagely, “but to help them, not 
to stop them ... and I’ll bet you had to have a Dark 
Mark to get through that barrier — so what happened 
when he came back down?” 



Page | 696 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, the big Death Eater had just fired off a hex that 
caused half the ceiling to fall in, and also broke the 
curse blocking the stairs,” said Lupin. “We all ran 
forward — those of us who were still standing anyway 
— and then Snape and the boy emerged out of the 
dust — obviously, none of us attacked them — ” 

“We just let them pass,” said Tonks in a hollow voice. 
“We thought they were being chased by the Death 
Eaters — and next thing, the other Death Eaters and 
Greyback were back and we were fighting again — I 
thought I heard Snape shout something, but I don’t 
know what — ” 

“He shouted, ‘It’s over,’ ” said Harry. “He’d done what 
he’d meant to do.” 

They all fell silent. Fawkes’s lament was still echoing 
over the dark grounds outside. As the music 
reverberated upon the air, unbidden, unwelcome 
thoughts slunk into Harry’s mind. ... Had they taken 
Dumbledore’s body from the foot of the tower yet? 
What would happen to it next? Where would it rest? 
He clenched his fists tightly in his pockets. He could 
feel the small cold lump of the fake Horcrux against 
the knuckles of his right hand. 

The doors of the hospital wing burst open, making 
them all jump: Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were striding up 
the ward, Fleur just behind them, her beautiful face 
terrified. 

“Molly — Arthur — ” said Professor McGonagall, 
jumping up and hurrying to greet them. “I am so 
sorry — ” 

“Bill,” whispered Mrs. Weasley, darting past Professor 
McGonagall as she caught sight of Bill’s mangled face. 
“Oh, Bill'.” 

Page | 697 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin and Tonks had got up hastily and retreated so 
that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley could get nearer to the 
bed. Mrs. Weasley bent over her son and pressed her 
lips to his bloody forehead. 

“You said Greyback attacked him?” Mr. Weasley 
asked Professor McGonagall distractedly. “But he 
hadn’t transformed? So what does that mean? What 
will happen to Bill?” 

“We don’t yet know,” said Professor McGonagall, 
looking helplessly at Lupin. 

“There will probably be some contamination, Arthur,” 
said Lupin. “It is an odd case, possibly unique. ... We 
don’t know what his behavior might be like when he 
awakens. ...” 

Mrs. Weasley took the nasty-smelling ointment from 
Madam Pomfrey and began dabbing at Bill’s wounds. 

“And Dumbledore ...” said Mr. Weasley. “Minerva, is it 
true ... Is he really ... ?” 

As Professor McGonagall nodded, Harry felt Ginny 
move beside him and looked at her. Her slightly 
narrowed eyes were fixed upon Fleur, who was gazing 
down at Bill with a frozen expression on her face. 

“Dumbledore gone,” whispered Mr. Weasley, but Mrs. 
Weasley had eyes only for her eldest son; she began 
to sob, tears falling onto Bill’s mutilated face. 

“Of course, it doesn’t matter how he looks. ... It’s not 
r-really important . . . but he was a very handsome 
little b-boy . . . always very handsome . . . and he was g- 
going to be married!” 



Page | 698 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“And what do you mean by zat?” said Fleur suddenly 
and loudly. “What do you mean, ‘’e was going to be 
married?’ ” 

Mrs. Weasley raised her tear-stained face, looking 
startled. “Well — only that — ” 

“You theenk Bill will not wish to marry me anymore?” 
demanded Fleur. “You theenk, because of these bites, 
he will not love me?” 

“No, that’s not what I — ” 

“Because ’e will!” said Fleur, drawing herself up to her 
full height and throwing back her long mane of silver 
hair. “It would take more zan a werewolf to stop Bill 
loving me!” 

“Well, yes, I’m sure,” said Mrs. Weasley, “but I 
thought perhaps — given how — how he — ” 

“You thought I would not weesh to marry him? Or 
per’aps, you hoped?” said Fleur, her nostrils flaring. 
“What do I care how he looks? I am good-looking 
enough for both of us, I theenk! All these scars show 
is zat my husband is brave! And I shall do zat!” she 
added fiercely, pushing Mrs. Weasley aside and 
snatching the ointment from her. 

Mrs. Weasley fell back against her husband and 
