
All Student Organizations, Societies, Teams, Groups, 
and Clubs are henceforth disbanded. 



Page | 449Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




An Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club is 
hereby defined as a regular meeting of three or more 
students. 

Permission to re-form may be sought from the High 
Inquisitor (Professor Umbridge). 

No Student Organization, Society, Team, Group, or 
Club may exist without the knowledge and approval 
of the High Inquisitor. 

Any student found to have formed, or to belong to, an 
Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club that has 
not been approved by the High Inquisitor will be 
expelled. 

The above is in accordance with 
Educational Decree Number Twenty-four. 

Signed: 

Dolores Jane Umbridge 
HIGH INQUISITOR 

Harry and Ron read the notice over the heads of some 
anxious-looking second years. 

“Does this mean they’re going to shut down the 
Gobstones Club?” one of them asked his friend. 

“I reckon you’ll be okay with Gobstones,” Ron said 
darkly, making the second year jump. “I don’t think 
we’re going to be as lucky, though, do you?” he asked 
Harry as the second years hurried away. 



Page | 450Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry was reading the notice through again. The 
happiness that had filled him since Saturday was 
gone. His insides were pulsing with rage. 

“This isn’t a coincidence,” he said, his hands forming 
fists. “She knows.” 

“She can’t,” said Ron at once. 

“There were people listening in that pub. And let’s 
face it, we don’t know how many of the people who 
turned up we can trust... Any of them could have run 
off and told Umbridge...” 

And he had thought they believed him, thought they 
even admired him . . . 

“Zacharias Smith!” said Ron at once, punching a fist 
into his hand. “Or — I thought that Michael Corner 
had a really shifty look too — ” 

“I wonder if Hermione’s seen this yet?” Harry said, 
looking around at the door to the girls’ dormitories. 

“Let’s go and tell her,” said Ron. He bounded forward, 
pulled open the door, and set off up the spiral 
staircase. 

He was on the sixth stair when it happened. There 
was a loud, wailing, klaxonlike sound and the steps 
melted together to make a long, smooth stone slide. 
There was a brief moment when Ron tried to keep 
running, arms working madly like windmills, then he 
toppled over backward and shot down the newly 
created slide, coming to rest on his back at Harry’s 
feet. 



Page | 451Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — I don’t think we’re allowed in the girls’ 
dormitories,” said Harry, pulling Ron to his feet and 
trying not to laugh. 

Two fourth-year girls came zooming gleefully down 
the stone slide. 

“Oooh, who tried to get upstairs?” they giggled 
happily, leaping to their feet and ogling Harry and 
Ron. 

“Me,” said Ron, who was still rather disheveled. “I 
didn’t realize that would happen. It’s not fair!” he 
added to Harry, as the girls headed off for the portrait 
hole, still giggling madly. “Hermione’s allowed in our 
dormitory, how come we’re not allowed — ?” 

“Well, it’s an old-fashioned rule,” said Hermione, who 
had just slid neatly onto a rug in front of them and 
was now getting to her feet, “but it says in Hogwarts, 
A History that the founders thought boys were less 
trustworthy than girls. Anyway, why were you trying 
to get in there?” 

“To see you — look at this!” said Ron, dragging her 
over to the notice board. 

Hermione’s eyes slid rapidly down the notice. Her 
expression became stony. 

“Someone must have blabbed to her!” Ron said 
angrily. 

“They can’t have done,” said Hermione in a low voice. 

“You’re so naive,” said Ron, “you think just because 
you’re all honorable and trustworthy — ” 



Page | 452Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No, they can’t have done because I put a jinx on that 
piece of parchment we all signed,” said Hermione 
grimly. “Believe me, if anyone’s run off and told 
Umbridge, well know exactly who they are and they 
will really regret it.” 

“What’ll happen to them?” said Ron eagerly. 

“Well, put it this way,” said Hermione, “it’ll make 
Eloise Midgen’s acne look like a couple of cute 
freckles. Come on, let’s get down to breakfast and see 
what the others think. . . I wonder whether this has 
been put up in all the Houses?” 

It was immediately apparent on entering the Great 
Hall that Umbridge’s sign had not only appeared in 
Gryffindor Tower. There was a peculiar intensity 
about the chatter and an extra measure of movement 
in the Hall as people scurried up and down their 
tables conferring on what they had read. Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione had barely taken their seats when 
Neville, Dean, Fred, George, and Ginny descended 
upon them. 

“Did you see it?” 

“D’you reckon she knows?” 

“What are we going to do?” 

They were all looking at Harry. He glanced around to 
make sure there were no teachers near them. 

“We’re going to do it anyway, of course,” he said 
quietly. 

“Knew you’d say that,” said George, beaming and 
thumping Harry on the arm. 



Page | 453Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“The prefects as well?” said Fred, looking quizzically 
at Ron and Hermione. 

“Of course,” said Hermione coolly. 

“Here comes Ernie and Hannah Abbott,” said Ron, 
looking over his shoulder. “And those Ravenclaw 
blokes and Smith ... and no one looks very spotty.” 

Hermione looked alarmed. 

“Never mind spots, the idiots can’t come over here 
now, it’ll look really suspicious — sit down!” she 
mouthed to Ernie and Hannah, gesturing frantically 
to them to rejoin the Hufflepuff table. “Later! We’ll — 
talk — to — you — lateri” 

“I’ll tell Michael,” said Ginny impatiently, swinging 
herself off her bench. “The fool, honestly ...” 

She hurried off toward the Ravenclaw table; Harry 
watched her go. Cho was sitting not far away, talking 
to the curly-haired friend she had brought along to 
the Hog’s Head. Would Umbridge’s notice scare her off 
meeting them again? 

But the full repercussions of the sign were not felt 
until they were leaving the Great Hall for History of 
Magic. 

“Harry! Ron\” 

It was Angelina and she was hurrying toward them 
looking perfectly desperate. 

“It’s okay,” said Harry quietly, when she was near 
enough to hear him. “We’re still going to — ” 



Page | 454Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You realize she’s including Quidditch in this?” 
Angelina said over him. “We have to go and ask 
permission to re-form the Gryffindor team!” 

“What?” said Harry. 

“No way,” said Ron, appalled. 

“You read the sign, it mentions teams too! So listen, 
Harry ... I am saying this for the last time... Please, 
please don’t lose your temper with Umbridge again or 
she might not let us play anymore!” 

“Okay, okay,” said Harry, for Angelina looked as 
though she was on the verge of tears. “Don’t worry, I’ll 
behave myself...” 

“Bet Umbridge is in History of Magic,” said Ron 
grimly, as they set off for Binns’s lesson. “She hasn’t 
inspected Binns yet... Bet you anything she’s there...” 

But he was wrong; the only teacher present when 
they entered was Professor Binns, floating an inch or 
so above his chair as usual and preparing to continue 
his monotonous drone on giant wars. Harry did not 
even attempt to follow what he was saying today; he 
doodled idly on his parchment ignoring Hermione’s 
frequent glares and nudges, until a particularly 
painful poke in the ribs made him look up angrily. 

“What?” 

She pointed at the window. Harry looked around. 
Hedwig was perched on the narrow window ledge, 
gazing through the thick glass at him, a letter tied to 
her leg. Harry could not understand it; they had just 
had breakfast, why on earth hadn’t she delivered the 
letter then, as usual? Many of his classmates were 
pointing out Hedwig to each other too. 

Page | 455Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, I’ve always loved that owl, she’s so beautiful,” 
Harry heard Lavender sigh to Parvati. 



He glanced around at Professor Binns who continued 
to read his notes, serenely unaware that the class’s 
attention was even less focused upon him than usual. 
Harry slipped quietly off his chair, crouched down, 
and hurried along the row to the window, where he 
slid the catch and opened it very slowly. 

He had expected Hedwig to hold out her leg so that he 
could remove the letter and then fly off to the Owlery, 
but the moment the window was open wide enough 
she hopped inside, hooting dolefully. He closed the 
window with an anxious glance at Professor Binns, 
crouched low again, and sped back to his seat with 
Hedwig on his shoulder. He regained his seat, 
transferred Hedwig to his lap, and made to remove 
the letter tied to her leg. 

It was only then that he realized that Hedwig’s 
feathers were oddly ruffled; some were bent the wrong 
way, and she was holding one of her wings at an odd 
angle. 

“She’s hurt!” Harry whispered, bending his head low 
over her. Hermione and Ron leaned in closer; 
Hermione even put down her quill. “Look — there’s 
something wrong with her wing — ” 

Hedwig was quivering; when Harry made to touch the 
wing she gave a little jump, all her feathers on end as 
though she was inflating herself, and gazed at him 
reproachfully. 

“Professor Binns,” said Harry loudly, and everyone in 
the class turned to look at him. “I’m not feeling well.” 



Page | 456Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Binns raised his eyes from his notes, 
looking amazed, as always, to find the room in front 
of him full of people. 

“Not feeling well?” he repeated hazily. 

“Not at all well,” said Harry firmly, getting to his feet 
while concealing Hedwig behind his back. “So I think 
I’ll need to go to the hospital wing.” 

“Yes,” said Professor Binns, clearly very much wrong- 
footed. “Yes ... yes, hospital wing ... well, off you go, 
then, Perkins ...” 

Once outside the room Harry returned Hedwig to his 
shoulder and hurried off up the corridor, pausing to 
think only when he was out of sight of Binns’s door. 
His first choice of somebody to cure Hedwig would 
have been Hagrid, of course, but as he had no idea 
where Hagrid was, his only remaining option was to 
find Professor Grubbly-Plank and hope she would 
help. 

He peered out of a window at the blustery, overcast 
grounds. There was no sign of her anywhere near 
Hagrid’s cabin; if she was not teaching, she was 
probably in the staffroom. He set off downstairs, 
Hedwig hooting feebly as she swayed on his shoulder. 

Two stone gargoyles flanked the staffroom door. As 
Harry approached, one of them croaked, “You should 
be in class, sunny Jim.” 

“This is urgent,” said Harry curtly. 

“Ooooh, urgent, is it?” said the other gargoyle in a 
high-pitched voice. “Well, that’s put us in our place, 
hasn’t it?” 



Page | 457Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry knocked; he heard footsteps and then the door 
opened and he found himself face-to-face with 
Professor McGonagall. 

“You haven’t been given another detention!” she said 
at once, her square spectacles flashing alarmingly. 

“No, Professor!” said Harry hastily. 

“Well then, why are you out of class?” 

“It’s urgent, apparently,” said the second gargoyle 
snidely. 

“I’m looking for Professor Grubbly-Plank,” Harry 
explained. “It’s my owl, she’s injured.” 

“Injured owl, did you say?” 

Professor Grubbly-Plank appeared at Professor 
McGonagall’s shoulder, smoking a pipe and holding a 
copy of the Daily Prophet 

“Yes,” said Harry, lifting Hedwig carefully off his 
shoulder, “she turned up after the other post owls 
and her wing’s all funny, look — ” 

Professor Grubbly-Plank stuck her pipe firmly 
between her teeth and took Hedwig from Harry while 
Professor McGonagall watched. 

“Hmm,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, her pipe 
waggling slightly as she talked. “Looks like 
something’s attacked her. Can’t think what would 
have done it, though... Thestrals will sometimes go for 
birds, of course, but Hagrid’s got the Hogwarts 
thestrals well trained not to touch owls ...” 



Page | 458Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry neither knew nor cared what thestrals were, he 
just wanted to know that Hedwig was going to be all 
right. Professor McGonagall, however, looked sharply 
at Harry and said, “Do you know how far this owl’s 
traveled, Potter?” 

“Er,” said Harry. “From London, I think.” 

He met her eyes briefly and knew that she understood 
“London” to mean “number twelve, Grimmauld Place” 
by the way her eyebrows had joined in the middle. 

Professor Grubbly-Plank pulled a monocle out of the 
inside of her robes and screwed it into her eye to 
examine Hedwig’s wing closely. “I should be able to 
sort this out if you leave her with me, Potter,” she 
said. “She shouldn’t be flying long distances for a few 
days, in any case.” 

“Er — right — thanks,” said Harry, just as the bell 
rang for break. 

“No problem,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank gruffly, 
turning back into the staffroom. 

“Just a moment, Wilhelmina!” said Professor 
McGonagall. “Potter’s letter!” 

“Oh yeah!” said Harry, who had momentarily 
forgotten the scroll tied to Hedwig’s leg. Professor 
Grubbly-Plank handed it over and then disappeared 
into the staffroom carrying Hedwig, who was staring 
at Harry as though unable to believe he would give 
her away like this. Feeling slightly guilty, he turned to 
go, but Professor McGonagall called him back. 

“Potter!” 

“Yes, Professor?” 

Page | 459Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She glanced up and down the corridor; there were 
students coming from both directions. 

“Bear in mind,” she said quickly and quietly, her eyes 
on the scroll in his hand, “that channels of 
communication in and out of Hogwarts may be being 
watched, won’t you?” 

“I — ” said Harry, but the flood of students rolling 
along the corridor was almost upon him. Professor 
McGonagall gave him a curt nod and retreated into 
the staffroom, leaving Harry to be swept out into the 
courtyard with the crowd. Here he spotted Ron and 
Hermione already standing in a sheltered corner, 
their cloak collars turned up against the wind. Harry 
slit open the scroll as he hurried toward them and 
found five words in Sirius’s handwriting: 

Today, same time, same place. 

“Is Hedwig okay?” asked Hermione anxiously, the 
moment he was within earshot. 

“Where did you take her?” asked Ron. 

“To Grubbly-Plank,” said Harry. “And I met 
McGonagall... Listen...” 

And he told them what Professor McGonagall had 
said. To his surprise, neither of the others looked 
shocked; on the contrary, they exchanged significant 
looks. 

“What?” said Harry, looking from Ron to Hermione 
and back again. 

“Well, I was just saying to Ron ... what if someone 
had tried to intercept Hedwig? I mean, she’s never 
been hurt on a flight before, has she?” 

Page | 460Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Who’s the letter from anyway?” asked Ron, taking 
the note from Harry. 

“Snuffles,” said Harry quietly. 

“ ‘Same time, same place’? Does he mean the fire in 
the common room?” 

“Obviously,” said Hermione, also reading the note. 

She looked uneasy. “I just hope nobody else has read 
this...” 

“But it was still sealed and everything,” said Harry, 
trying to convince himself as much as her. “And 
nobody would understand what it meant if they didn’t 
know where we’d spoken to him before, would they?” 

“I don’t know,” said Hermione anxiously, hitching her 
bag back over her shoulder as the bell rang again. “It 
wouldn’t be exactly difficult to reseal the scroll by 
magic... And if anyone’s watching the Floo Network ... 
but I don’t really see how we can warn him not to 
come without that being intercepted too!” 

They trudged down the stone steps to the dungeons 
for Potions, all three of them lost in thought, but as 
they reached the bottom of the stairs they were 
recalled to themselves by the voice of Draco Malfoy, 
who was standing just outside Snape’s classroom 
door, waving around an official-looking piece of 
parchment and talking much louder than was 
necessary so that they could hear every word. 

“Yeah, Umbridge gave the Slytherin Quidditch team 
permission to continue playing straightaway, I went 
to ask her first thing this morning. Well, it was pretty 
much automatic, I mean, she knows my father really 
well, he’s always popping in and out of the Ministry... 



Page | 461Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It’ll be interesting to see whether Gryffindor are 
allowed to keep playing, wont it?” 

“Don’t rise,” Hermione whispered imploringly to Harry 
and Ron, who were both watching Malfoy, faces set 
and fists clenched. “It’s what he wants...” 

“I mean,” said Malfoy, raising his voice a little more, 
his gray eyes glittering malevolently in Harry and 
Ron’s direction, “if it’s a question of influence with the 
Ministry, I don’t think they’ve got much chance... 

From what my father says, they’ve been looking for an 
excuse to sack Arthur Weasley for years... And as for 
Potter ... My father says it’s a matter of time before 
the Ministry has him carted off to St. Mungo’s... 
apparently they’ve got a special ward for people whose 
brains have been addled by magic...” 

Malfoy made a grotesque face, his mouth sagging 
open and his eyes rolling. Crabbe and Goyle gave 
their usual grunts of laughter, Pansy Parkinson 
shrieked with glee. 

Something collided hard with Harry’s shoulder, 
knocking him sideways. A split second later he 
realized that Neville had just charged past him, 
heading straight for Malfoy. 

“Neville, no!” 

Harry leapt forward and seized the back of Neville’s 
robes; Neville struggled frantically, his fists flailing, 
trying desperately to get at Malfoy who looked, for a 
moment, extremely shocked. 

“Help me!” Harry flung at Ron, managing to get an 
arm around Neville’s neck and dragging him 
backward, away from the Slytherins. Crabbe and 
Goyle were now flexing their arms, closing in front of 

Page | 462Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy, ready for the fight. Ron hurried forward and 
seized Neville’s arms; together, he and Harry 
succeeded in dragging Neville back into the Gryffindor 
line. Neville’s face was scarlet; the pressure Harry was 
exerting on his throat rendered him quite 
incomprehensible, but odd words spluttered from his 
mouth. 

“Not... funny ... don’t ... Mungo’s ... show ... him ...” 

The dungeon door opened. Snape appeared there. His 
black eyes swept up the Gryffindor line to the point 
where Harry and Ron were wrestling with Neville. 

“Fighting, Potter, Weasley, Longbottom?” Snape said 
in his cold, sneering voice. “Ten points from 
Gryffindor. Release Longbottom, Potter, or it will be 
detention. Inside, all of you.” 

Harry let go of Neville, who stood panting and glaring 
at him. 

“I had to stop you,” Harry gasped, picking up his bag. 
“Crabbe and Goyle would’ve torn you apart.” 

Neville said nothing, he merely snatched up his own 
bag and stalked off into the dungeon. 

“What in the name of Merlin,” said Ron slowly, as 
they followed Neville, “was that about?” 

Harry did not answer. He knew exactly why the 
subject of people who were in St. Mungo’s because of 
magical damage to their brains was highly distressing 
to Neville, but he had sworn to Dumbledore that he 
would not tell anyone Neville’s secret. Even Neville did 
not know that Harry knew. 



Page | 463Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Ron, and Hermione took their usual seats at 
the back of the class and pulled out parchment, 
quills, and their copies of One Thousand Magical 
Herbs and Fungi. The class around them was 
whispering about what Neville had just done, but 
when Snape closed the dungeon door with an echoing 
bang everybody fell silent immediately. 

“You will notice,” said Snape in his low, sneering 
voice, “that we have a guest with us today.” 

He gestured toward the dim corner of the dungeon, 
and Harry saw Professor Umbridge sitting there, 
clipboard on her knee. He glanced sideways at Ron 
and Hermione, his eyebrows raised. Snape and 
Umbridge, the two teachers he hated most ... it was 
hard to decide which he wanted to triumph over the 
other. 

“We are continuing with our Strengthening Solutions 
today, you will find your mixtures as you left them 
last lesson, if correctly made they should have 
matured well over the weekend — instructions” — he 
waved his wand again — “on the board. Carry on.” 

Professor Umbridge spent the first half hour of the 
lesson making notes in her corner. Harry was very 
interested in hearing her question Snape, so 
interested, that he was becoming careless with his 
potion again. 

“Salamander blood, Harry!” Hermione moaned, 
grabbing his wrist to prevent him adding the wrong 
ingredient for the third time. “Not pomegranate juice!” 

“Right,” said Harry vaguely, putting down the bottle 
and continuing to watch the corner. Umbridge had 
just gotten to her feet. “Ha,” he said softly, as she 



Page | 464Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




strode between two lines of desks toward Snape, who 
was bending over Dean Thomas’s cauldron. 

“Well, the class seems fairly advanced for their level,” 
she said briskly to Snape ’s back. “Though I would 
question whether it is advisable to teach them a 
potion like the Strengthening Solution. I think the 
Ministry would prefer it if that was removed from the 
syllabus.” 

Snape straightened up slowly and turned to look at 
her. 

“Now ... how long have you been teaching at 
Hogwarts?” she asked, her quill poised over her 
clipboard. 

“Fourteen years,” Snape replied. His expression was 
unfathomable. His eyes on Snape, Harry added a few 
drops to his potion; it hissed menacingly and turned 
from turquoise to orange. 

“You applied first for the Defense Against the Dark 
Arts post, I believe?” Professor Umbridge asked 
Snape. 

“Yes,” said Snape quietly. 

“But you were unsuccessful?” 

Snape ’s lip curled. 

“Obviously.” 

Professor Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard. 

“And you have applied regularly for the Defense 
Against the Dark Arts post since you first joined the 
school, I believe?” 

Page | 465Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Snape quietly, barely moving his lips. He 
looked very angry. 

“Do you have any idea why Dumbledore has 
consistently refused to appoint you?” asked 
Umbridge. 

“I suggest you ask him,” said Snape jerkily. 

“Oh I shall,” said Professor Umbridge with a sweet 
smile. 

“I suppose this is relevant?” Snape asked, his black 
eyes narrowed. 

“Oh yes,” said Professor Umbridge. “Yes, the Ministry 
wants a thorough understanding of teachers’ — er — 
backgrounds...” 

She turned away, walked over to Pansy Parkinson 
and began questioning her about the lessons. Snape 
looked around at Harry and their eyes met for a 
second. Harry hastily dropped his gaze to his potion, 
which was now congealing foully and giving off a 
strong smell of burned rubber. 

“No marks again, then, Potter,” said Snape 
maliciously, emptying Harry’s cauldron with a wave of 
his wand. “You will write me an essay on the correct 
composition of this potion, indicating how and why 
you went wrong, to be handed in next lesson, do you 
understand?” 

“Yes,” said Harry furiously. Snape had already given 
them homework, and he had Quidditch practice this 
evening; this would mean another couple of sleepless 
nights. It did not seem possible that he had awoken 
that morning feeling very happy. All he felt now was a 
fervent desire for this day to end as soon as possible. 
Page | 466Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Maybe I’ll skive off Divination,” he said glumly as 
they stood again in the courtyard after lunch, the 
wind whipping at the hems of robes and brims of 
hats. “I’ll pretend to be ill and do Snape’s essay 
instead, then I won’t have to stay up half the night...” 

“You can’t skive off Divination,” said Hermione 
severely. 

“Hark who’s talking, you walked out of Divination, 
you hate Trelawney!” said Ron indignantly. 

“I don’t hate her,” said Hermione loftily. “I just think 
she’s an absolutely appalling teacher and a real old 
fraud... But Harry’s already missed History of Magic 
and I don’t think he ought to miss anything else 
today!” 

There was too much truth in this to ignore, so half an 
hour later Harry took his seat in the hot, over- 
perfumed atmosphere of the Divination classroom 
feeling angry at everybody. Professor Trelawney was 
handing out copies of The Dream Oracle yet again; he 
would surely be much better employed doing Snape’s 
punishment essay than sitting here trying to find 
meaning in a lot of made-up dreams. 

It seemed, however, that he was not the only person 
in Divination who was in a temper. Professor 
Trelawney slammed a copy of the Oracle down on the 
table between Harry and Ron and swept away, her 
lips pursed; she threw the next copy of the Oracle at 
Seamus and Dean, narrowly avoiding Seamus’s head, 
and thrust the final one into Neville’s chest with such 
force that he slipped off his pouf. 

“Well, carry on!” said Professor Trelawney loudly, her 
voice high pitched and somewhat hysterical. “You 



Page | 467Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




know what to do! Or am I such a substandard teacher 
that you have never learned how to open a book?” 

The class stared perplexedly at her and then at each 
other. Harry, however, thought he knew what was the 
matter. As Professor Trelawney flounced back to the 
high-backed teacher’s chair, her magnified eyes full of 
angry tears, he leaned his head closer to Ron’s and 
muttered, “I think she’s got the results of her 
inspection back.” 

“Professor?” said Parvati Patil in a hushed voice (she 
and Lavender had always rather admired Professor 
Trelawney). “Professor, is there anything — er — 
wrong?” 

“Wrong!” cried Professor Trelawney in a voice 
throbbing with emotion. “Certainly not! I have been 
insulted, certainly... Insinuations have been made 
against me... Unfounded accusations levelled ... but 
no, there is nothing wrong, certainly not...” 

She took a great shuddering breath and looked away 
from Parvati, angry tears spilling from under her 
glasses. 

“I say nothing,” she choked, “of sixteen years’ devoted 
service... It has passed, apparently, unnoticed... But I 
shall not be insulted, no, I shall not!” 

“But Professor, who’s insulting you?” asked Parvati 
timidly. 

“The establishment!” said Professor Trelawney in a 
deep, dramatic, wavering voice. “Yes, those with eyes 
too clouded by the Mundane to See as I See, to Know 
as I Know ... Of course, we Seers have always been 
feared, always persecuted... It is — alas — our fate...” 



Page | 468Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She gulped, dabbed at her wet cheeks with the end of 
her shawl, and then pulled a small, embroidered 
handkerchief from her sleeve, into which she blew her 
nose very hard with a sound like Peeves blowing a 
raspberry. Ron sniggered. Lavender shot him a 
disgusted look. 

“Professor,” said Parvati, “do you mean ... is it 
something Professor Umbridge ... ?” 

“Do not speak to me about that woman!” cried 
Professor Trelawney, leaping to her feet, her beads 
rattling and her spectacles flashing. “Kindly continue 
with your work!” 

And she spent the rest of the lesson striding among 
them, tears still leaking from behind her glasses, 
muttering what sounded like threats under her 
breath. 

"... may well choose to leave ... the indignity of it ... on 
probation ... we shall see ... how she dares ...” 

“You and Umbridge have got something in common,” 
Harry told Hermione quietly when they met again in 
Defense Against the Dark Arts. “She obviously 
reckons Trelawney’s an old fraud too... Looks like 
she’s put her on probation.” 

Umbridge entered the room as he spoke, wearing her 
black velvet bow and an expression of great 
smugness. 

“Good afternoon, class.” 

“Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,” they chanted 
drearily. 

“Wands away, please ...” 

Page | 469Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But there was no answering flurry of movement this 
time; nobody had bothered to take out their wands. 

“Please turn to page thirty-four of Defensive Magical 
Theory and read the third chapter, entitled The Case 
for Non-Offensive Responses to Magical Attack.’ There 
will be — ” 

“ — no need to talk,” Harry, Ron, and Hermione said 
together under their breaths. 

“No Quidditch practice,” said Angelina in hollow tones 
when Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the common 
room that night after dinner. 

“But I kept my temper!” said Harry, horrified. “I didn’t 
say anything to her, Angelina, I swear, I — ” 

“I know, I know,” said Angelina miserably. “She just 
said she needed a bit of time to consider.” 

“Consider what?” said Ron angrily. “She’s given the 
Slytherins permission, why not us?” 

But Harry could imagine how much Umbridge was 
enjoying holding the threat of no Gryffindor Quidditch 
team over their heads and could easily understand 
why she would not want to relinquish that weapon 
over them too soon. 

“Well,” said Hermione, “look on the bright side — at 
least now you’ll have time to do Snape’s essay!” 

“That’s a bright side, is it?” snapped Harry, while Ron 
stared incredulously at Hermione. “No Quidditch 
practice and extra Potions?” 

Harry slumped down into a chair, dragged his Potions 
essay reluctantly from his bag, and set to work. 

Page | 470Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was very hard to concentrate; even though he knew 
that Sirius was not due in the fire until much later he 
could not help glancing into the flames every few 
minutes just in case. There was also an incredible 
amount of noise in the room: Fred and George 
appeared finally to have perfected one type of Skiving 
Snackbox, which they were taking turns to 
demonstrate to a cheering and whooping crowd. 

First, Fred would take a bite out of the orange end of 
a chew, at which he would vomit spectacularly into a 
bucket they had placed in front of them. Then he 
would force down the purple end of the chew, at 
which the vomiting would immediately cease. Lee 
Jordan, who was assisting the demonstration, was 
lazily vanishing the vomit at regular intervals with the 
same Vanishing Spell Snape kept using on Harry’s 
potions. 

What with the regular sounds of retching, cheering, 
and Fred and George taking advance orders from the 
crowd, Harry was finding it exceptionally difficult to 
focus on the correct method for Strengthening 
Solutions. Hermione was not helping matters; the 
cheers and sound of vomit hitting the bottom of Fred 
and George’s bucket were punctuated by loud and 
disapproving sniffs that Harry found, if anything, 
more distracting. 

“Just go and stop them, then!” he said irritably, after 
crossing out the wrong weight of powdered griffin 
claw for the fourth time. 

“I can’t, they’re not technically doing anything wrong,” 
said Hermione through gritted teeth. “They’re quite 
within their rights to eat the foul things themselves, 
and I can’t find a rule that says the other idiots aren’t 
entitled to buy them, not unless they’re proven to be 

