down at the Gryffindor table. 

Page | 336Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Less than zero,” said Harry glumly, tipping lamb 
chops onto his plate and starting to eat. “Better try, 
though, hadn’t I? I’ll offer to do two more detentions 
or something, I dunno...” He swallowed a mouthful of 
potato and added, “I hope she doesn’t keep me too 
long this evening. You realize we’ve got to write three 
essays, practice Vanishing Spells for McGonagall, 
work out a countercharm for Flitwick, finish the 
bowtruckle drawing, and start that stupid dream 
diary for Trelawney?” 

Ron moaned and for some reason glanced up at the 
ceiling. 

“And it looks like it’s going to rain.” 

“What’s that got to do with our homework?” said 
Hermione, her eyebrows raised. 

“Nothing,” said Ron at once, his ears reddening. 

At five to five Harry bade the other two good-bye and 
set off for Umbridge’s office on the third floor. When 
he knocked on the door she said, “Come in,” in a 
sugary voice. He entered cautiously, looking around. 

He had known this office under three of its previous 
occupants. In the days when Gilderoy Lockhart had 
lived here it had been plastered in beaming portraits 
of its owner. When Lupin had occupied it, it was likely 
you would meet some fascinating Dark creature in a 
cage or tank if you came to call. In the impostor 
Moody’s days it had been packed with various 
instruments and artifacts for the detection of 
wrongdoing and concealment. 

Now, however, it looked totally unrecognizable. The 
surfaces had all been draped in lacy covers and 
cloths. There were several vases full of dried flowers, 

Page | 337Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




each residing on its own doily, and on one of the walls 
was a collection of ornamental plates, each decorated 
with a large technicolor kitten wearing a different bow 
around its neck. These were so foul that Harry stared 
at them, transfixed, until Professor Umbridge spoke 
again. 

“Good evening, Mr. Potter.” 

Harry started and looked around. He had not noticed 
her at first because she was wearing a luridly 
flowered set of robes that blended only too well with 
the tablecloth on the desk behind her. 

“Evening,” Harry said stiffly. 

“Well, sit down,” she said, pointing toward a small 
table draped in lace beside which she had drawn up a 
straight-backed chair. A piece of blank parchment lay 
on the table, apparently waiting for him. 

“Er,” said Harry, without moving. “Professor 
Umbridge? Er — before we start, I-I wanted to ask 
you a ... a favor.” 

Her bulging eyes narrowed. 

“Oh yes?” 

“Well I’m ... I’m on the Gryffindor Quidditch team. 

And I was supposed to be at the tryouts for the new 
Keeper at five o’clock on Friday and I was — was 
wondering whether I could skip detention that night 
and do it — do it another night ... instead ...” 

He knew long before he reached the end of his 
sentence that it was no good. 



Page | 338Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh no,” said Umbridge, smiling so widely that she 
looked as though she had just swallowed a 
particularly juicy fly. “Oh no, no, no. This is your 
punishment for spreading evil, nasty, attention- 
seeking stories, Mr. Potter, and punishments 
certainly cannot be adjusted to suit the guilty one’s 
convenience. No, you will come here at five o’clock 
tomorrow, and the next day, and on Friday too, and 
you will do your detentions as planned. I think it 
rather a good thing that you are missing something 
you really want to do. It ought to reinforce the lesson I 
am trying to teach you.” 

Harry felt the blood surge to his head and heard a 
thumping noise in his ears. So he told evil, nasty, 
attention-seeking stories, did he? 

She was watching him with her head slightly to one 
side, still smiling widely, as though she knew exactly 
what he was thinking and was waiting to see whether 
he would start shouting again. With a massive effort 
Harry looked away from her, dropped his schoolbag 
beside the straight-backed chair, and sat down. 

“There,” said Umbridge sweetly, “we’re getting better 
at controlling our temper already, aren’t we? Now, you 
are going to be doing some lines for me, Mr. Potter. 

No, not with your quill,” she added, as Harry bent 
down to open his bag. “You’re going to be using a 
rather special one of mine. Here you are.” 

She handed him a long, thin black quill with an 
unusually sharp point. 

“I want you to write ‘ I must not tell lies,’ ” she told him 
softly. 

“How many times?” Harry asked, with a creditable 
imitation of politeness. 

Page | 339Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in,” 
said Umbridge sweetly. “Off you go.” 

She moved over to her desk, sat down, and bent over 
a stack of parchment that looked like essays for 
marking. Harry raised the sharp black quill and then 
realized what was missing. 

“You haven’t given me any ink,” he said. 

“Oh, you won’t need ink,” said Professor Umbridge 
with the merest suggestion of a laugh in her voice. 

Harry placed the point of the quill on the paper and 
wrote: I must not tell lies. 

He let out a gasp of pain. The words had appeared on 
the parchment in what appeared to be shining red 
ink. At the same time, the words had appeared on the 
back of Harry’s right hand, cut into his skin as 
though traced there by a scalpel — yet even as he 
stared at the shining cut, the skin healed over again, 
leaving the place where it had been slightly redder 
than before but quite smooth. 

Harry looked around at Umbridge. She was watching 
him, her wide, toadlike mouth stretched in a smile. 

“Yes?” 

“Nothing,” said Harry quietly. 

He looked back at the parchment, placed the quill 
upon it once more, wrote I must not tell lies, and felt 
the searing pain on the back of his hand for a second 
time; once again the words had been cut into his 
skin, once again they healed over seconds later. 



Page | 340Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And on it went. Again and again Harry wrote the 
words on the parchment in what he soon came to 
realize was not ink, but his own blood. And again and 
again the words were cut into the back of his hand, 
healed, and then reappeared the next time he set quill 
to parchment. 

Darkness fell outside Umbridge’s window. Harry did 
not ask when he would be allowed to stop. He did not 
even check his watch. He knew she was watching him 
for signs of weakness and he was not going to show 
any, not even if he had to sit here all night, cutting 
open his own hand with this quill... 

“Come here,” she said, after what seemed hours. 

He stood up. His hand was stinging painfully. When 
he looked down at it he saw that the cut had healed, 
but that the skin there was red raw. 

“Hand,” she said. 

He extended it. She took it in her own. Harry 
repressed a shudder as she touched him with her 
thick, stubby fingers on which she wore a number of 
ugly old rings. 

“Tut, tut, I don’t seem to have made much of an 
impression yet,” she said, smiling. “Well, we’ll just 
have to try again tomorrow evening, won’t we? You 
may go.” 

Harry left her office without a word. The school was 
quite deserted; it was surely past midnight. He 
walked slowly up the corridor then, when he had 
turned the corner and was sure that she would not 
hear him, broke into a run. 



Page | 341Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had not had time to practice Vanishing Spells, had 
not written a single dream in his dream diary, and 
had not finished the drawing of the bowtruckle, nor 
had he written his essays. He skipped breakfast next 
morning to scribble down a couple of made-up 
dreams for Divination, their first lesson, and was 
surprised to find a disheveled Ron keeping him 
company. 

“How come you didn’t do it last night?” Harry asked, 
as Ron stared wildly around the common room for 
inspiration. Ron, who had been fast asleep when 
Harry got back to the dormitory, muttered something 
about “doing other stuff,” bent low over his 
parchment, and scrawled a few words. 

“That’ll have to do,” he said, slamming the diary shut, 
“I’ve said I dreamed I was buying a new pair of shoes, 
she can’t make anything weird out of that, can she?” 

They hurried off to North Tower together. 

“How was detention with Umbridge, anyway? What 
did she make you do?” 

Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, then said, 
“Lines.” 

“That’s not too bad, then, eh?” said Ron. 

“Nope,” said Harry. 

“Hey — I forgot — did she let you off for Friday?” 

“No,” said Harry. 

Ron groaned sympathetically. 



Page | 342Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was another bad day for Harry; he was one of the 
worst in Transfiguration, not having practiced 
Vanishing Spells at all. He had to give up his lunch 
hour to complete the picture of the bowtruckle, and 
meanwhile, Professors McGonagall, Grubbly-Plank, 
and Sinistra gave them yet more homework, which he 
had no prospect of finishing that evening because of 
his second detention with Umbridge. To cap it all, 
Angelina Johnson tracked him down at dinner again 
and, on learning that he would not be able to attend 
Friday’s Keeper tryouts, told him she was not at all 
impressed by his attitude and that she expected 
players who wished to remain on the team to put 
training before their other commitments. 

“I’m in detention!” Harry yelled after her as she 
stalked away. “D’you think I’d rather be stuck in a 
room with that old toad or playing Quidditch?” 

“At least it’s only lines,” said Hermione consolingly, as 
Harry sank back onto his bench and looked down at 
his steak-and-kidney pie, which he no longer fancied 
very much. “It’s not as if it’s a dreadful punishment, 
really...” 

Harry opened his mouth, closed it again, and nodded. 
He was not really sure why he was not telling Ron 
and Hermione exactly what was happening in 
Umbridge ’s room: He only knew that he did not want 
to see their looks of horror; that would make the 
whole thing seem worse and therefore more difficult 
to face. He also felt dimly that this was between 
himself and Umbridge, a private battle of wills, and he 
was not going to give her the satisfaction of hearing 
that he had complained about it. 

“I can’t believe how much homework we’ve got,” said 
Ron miserably. 



Page | 343Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, why didn’t you do any last night?” Hermione 
asked him. “Where were you anyway?” 



“I was ... I fancied a walk,” said Ron shiftily. 

Harry had the distinct impression that he was not 
alone in concealing things at the moment. 

k k k 



The second detention was just as bad as the previous 
one. The skin on the back of Harry’s hand became 
irritated more quickly now, red and inflamed; Harry 
thought it unlikely to keep healing as effectively for 
long. Soon the cut would remain etched in his hand 
and Umbridge would, perhaps, be satisfied. He let no 
moan of pain escape him, however, and from the 
moment of entering the room to the moment of his 
dismissal, again past midnight, he said nothing but 
“Good evening” and “Good night.” 

His homework situation, however, was now desperate, 
and when he returned to the Gryffindor common 
room he did not, though exhausted, go to bed, but 
opened his books and began Snape’s moonstone 
essay. It was half-past two by the time he had 
finished it. He knew he had done a poor job, but there 
was no help for it; unless he had something to give in 
he would be in detention with Snape next. He then 
dashed off answers to the questions Professor 
McGonagall had set them, cobbled together 
something on the proper handling of bowtruckles for 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, and staggered up to bed, 
where he fell fully clothed on top of the bed covers 
and fell asleep immediately. 

Thursday passed in a haze of tiredness. Ron seemed 
very sleepy too, though Harry could not see why he 

Page | 344Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




should be. Harry’s third detention passed in the same 
way as the previous two, except that after two hours 
the words “I must not tell lies” did not fade from the 
back of Harry’s hand, but remained scratched there, 
oozing droplets of blood. The pause in the pointed 
quill’s scratching made Professor Umbridge look up. 

“Ah,” she said softly, moving around her desk to 
examine his hand herself. “Good. That ought to serve 
as a reminder to you, oughtn’t it? You may leave for 
tonight.” 

“Do I still have to come back tomorrow?” said Harry, 
picking up his schoolbag with his left hand rather 
than his smarting right. 

“Oh yes,” said Professor Umbridge, smiling widely as 
before. “Yes, I think we can etch the message a little 
deeper with another evening’s work.” 

He had never before considered the possibility that 
there might be another teacher in the world he hated 
more than Snape, but as he walked back toward 
Gryffindor Tower he had to admit he had found a 
contender. She’s evil, he thought, as he climbed a 
staircase to the seventh floor, she’s an evil, twisted, 
mad, old — 

“Ron?” 

He had reached the top of the stairs, turned right, 
and almost walked into Ron, who was lurking behind 
a statue of Lachlan the Lanky, clutching his 
broomstick. He gave a great leap of surprise when he 
saw Harry and attempted to hide his new Cleansweep 
Eleven behind his back. 

“What are you doing?” 



Page | 345Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — nothing. What are you doing?” 

Harry frowned at him. 

“Come on, you can tell me! What are you hiding here 
for?” 

“I’m — I’m hiding from Fred and George, if you must 
know,” said Ron. “They just went past with a bunch 
of first years, I bet they’re testing stuff on them again, 

I mean, they can’t do it in the common room now, can 
they, not with Hermione there.” 

He was talking in a very fast, feverish way. 

“But what have you got your broom for, you haven’t 
been flying, have you?” Harry asked. 

“I — well — well, okay, I’ll tell you, but don’t laugh, all 
right?” Ron said defensively, turning redder with 
every second. “I-I thought I’d try out for Gryffindor 
Keeper now I’ve got a decent broom. There. Go on. 
Laugh.” 

“I’m not laughing,” said Harry. Ron blinked. “It’s a 
brilliant idea! It’d be really cool if you got on the team! 
I’ve never seen you play Keeper, are you good?” 

“I’m not bad,” said Ron, who looked immensely 
relieved at Harry’s reaction. “Charlie, Fred, and 
George always made me Keep for them when they 
were training during the holidays.” 

“So you’ve been practicing tonight?” 

“Every evening since Tuesday ... just on my own, 
though, I’ve been trying to bewitch Quaffles to fly at 
me, but it hasn’t been easy and I don’t know how 
much use it’ll be.” Ron looked nervous and anxious. 

Page | 346Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Fred and George are going to laugh themselves 
stupid when I turn up for the tryouts. They haven’t 
stopped taking the mickey out of me since I got made 
a prefect.” 

“I wish I was going to be there,” said Harry bitterly, as 
they set off together toward the common room. 

“Yeah, so do — Harry, what’s that on the back of your 
hand?” 

Harry, who had just scratched his nose with his free 
right hand, tried to hide it, but had as much success 
as Ron with his Cleans weep. 

“It’s just a cut — it’s nothing — it’s — ” 

But Ron had grabbed Harry’s forearm and pulled the 
back of Harry’s hand up level with his eyes. There 
was a pause, during which he stared at the words 
carved into the skin, then he released Harry, looking 
sick. 

“I thought you said she was giving you lines?” 

Harry hesitated, but after all, Ron had been honest 
with him, so he told Ron the truth about the hours he 
had been spending in Umbridge’s office. 

“The old hag!” Ron said in a revolted whisper as they 
came to a halt in front of the Fat Lady, who was 
dozing peacefully with her head against her frame. 
“She’s sick! Go to McGonagall, say something!” 

“No,” said Harry at once. “I’m not giving her the 
satisfaction of knowing she’s got to me.” 

“Got to you? You can’t let her get away with this!” 



Page | 347Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t know how much power McGonagall’s got over 
her,” said Harry. 

“Dumbledore, then, tell Dumbledore!” 

“No,” said Harry flatly. 

“Why not?” 

“He’s got enough on his mind,” said Harry, but that 
was not the true reason. He was not going to go to 
Dumbledore for help when Dumbledore had not 
spoken to him once since last June. 

“Well, I reckon you should — ” Ron began, but he was 
interrupted by the Fat Lady, who had been watching 
them sleepily and now burst out, “Are you going to 
give me the password or will I have to stay awake all 
night waiting for you to finish your conversation?” 

Friday dawned sullen and sodden as the rest of the 
week. Though Harry glanced toward the staff table 
automatically when he entered the Great Hall, it was 
without real hope of seeing Hagrid and he turned his 
mind immediately to his more pressing problems, 
such as the mountainous pile of homework he had to 
do and the prospect of yet another detention with 
Umbridge. 

Two things sustained Harry that day. One was the 
thought that it was almost the weekend; the other 
was that, dreadful though his final detention with 
Umbridge was sure to be, he had a distant view of the 
Quidditch pitch from her window and might, with 
luck, be able to see something of Ron’s tryout. These 
were rather feeble rays of light, it was true, but Harry 
was grateful for anything that might lighten his 
present darkness; he had never had a worse first 
week of term at Hogwarts. 

Page | 348Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




At five o’clock that evening he knocked on Professor 
Umbridge’s office door for what he sincerely hoped 
would be the final time, was told to enter and did so. 
The blank parchment lay ready for him on the lace- 
covered table, the pointed black quill beside it. 

“You know what to do, Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge, 
smiling sweetly over at him. 

Harry picked up the quill and glanced through the 
window. If he just shifted his chair an inch or so to 
the right . . . On the pretext of shifting himself closer to 
the table he managed it. He now had a distant view of 
the Gryffindor Quidditch team soaring up and down 
the pitch, while half a dozen black figures stood at the 
foot of the three high goalposts, apparently awaiting 
their turn to Keep. It was impossible to tell which one 
was Ron at this distance. 

I must not tell lies, Harry wrote. The cut in the back of 
his right hand opened and began to bleed afresh. 

I must not tell lies. The cut dug deeper, stinging and 
smarting. 

I must not tell lies. Blood trickled down his wrist. 

He chanced another glance out of the window. 
Whoever was defending the goalposts now was doing 
a very poor job indeed. Katie Bell scored twice in the 
few seconds Harry dared watch. Hoping very much 
that the Keeper wasn’t Ron, he dropped his eyes back 
to the parchment dotted with blood. 

I must not tell lies. 

I must not tell lies. 



Page | 349Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He looked up whenever he thought he could risk it, 
when he could hear the scratching of Umbridge’s quill 
or the opening of a desk drawer. The third person to 
try out was pretty good, the fourth was terrible, the 
fifth dodged a Bludger exceptionally well but then 
fumbled an easy save. The sky was darkening so that 
Harry doubted he would be able to watch the sixth 
and seventh people at all. 

I must not tell lies. 

I must not tell lies. 

The parchment was now shining with drops of blood 
from the back of his hand, which was searing with 
pain. When he next looked up, night had fallen and 
the Quidditch pitch was no longer visible. 

“Let’s see if you’ve gotten the message yet, shall we?” 
said Umbridge’s soft voice half an hour later. 

She moved toward him, stretching out her short be- 
ringed fingers for his arm. And then, as she took hold 
of him to examine the words now cut into his skin, 
pain seared, not across the back of his hand, but 
across the scar on his forehead. At the same time, he 
had a most peculiar sensation somewhere around his 
midriff. 

He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his 
feet, staring at her. She looked back at him, a smile 
stretching her wide, slack mouth. 

“Yes, it hurts, doesn’t it?” she said softly. 

He did not answer. His heart was thumping very hard 
and fast. Was she talking about his hand or did she 
know what he had just felt in his forehead? 



Page | 350Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, I think I’ve made my point, Mr. Potter. You may 
go.” 

He caught up his schoolbag and left the room as 
quickly as he could. 

Stay calm, he told himself as he sprinted up the 
stairs. Stay calm, it doesn’t necessarily mean what 
you think it means... 

“ Mimbulus mimbletoniaV ’ he gasped at the Fat Lady, 
who swung forward once more. 

A roar of sound greeted him. Ron came running 
toward him, beaming all over his face and slopping 
butterbeer down his front from the goblet he was 
clutching. 

“Harry, I did it, I’m in, I’m Keeper!” 

“What? Oh — brilliant!” said Harry, trying to smile 
naturally, while his heart continued to race and his 
hand throbbed and bled. 

“Have a butterbeer.” Ron pressed a bottle onto him. “I 
can’t believe it — where’s Hermione gone?” 

“She’s there,” said Fred, who was also swigging 
butterbeer, and pointed to an armchair by the fire. 
Hermione was dozing in it, her drink tipping 
precariously in her hand. 

“Well, she said she was pleased when I told her,” said 
Ron, looking slightly put out. 

“Let her sleep,” said George hastily. It was a few 
moments before Harry noticed that several of the first 
years gathered around them bore unmistakable signs 
of recent nosebleeds. 

Page | 351Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Come here, Ron, and see if Oliver’s old robes fit you,” 
called Katie Bell. “We can take off his name and put 
yours on instead...” 

As Ron moved away, Angelina came striding up to 
Harry. 

“Sorry I was a bit short with you earlier, Potter,” she 
said abruptly. “It’s stressful, this managing lark, you 
know, I’m starting to think I was a bit hard on Wood 
sometimes.” She was watching Ron over the rim of 
her goblet with a slight frown on her face. 

“Look, I know he’s your best mate, but he’s not 
fabulous,” she said bluntly. “I think with a bit of 
training he’ll be all right, though. He comes from a 
family of good Quidditch players. I’m banking on him 
turning out to have a bit more talent than he showed 
today, to be honest. Vicky Frobisher and Geoffrey 
Hooper both flew better this evening, but Hooper’s a 
real whiner, he’s always moaning about something or 
other, and Vicky’s involved in all sorts of societies, 
she admitted herself that if training clashed with her 
Charm Club she’d put Charms first. Anyway, we’re 
having a practice session at two o’clock tomorrow, so 
just make sure you’re there this time. And do me a 
favor and help Ron as much as you can, okay?” 

He nodded and Angelina strolled back to Alicia 
Spinnet. Harry moved over to sit next to Hermione, 
who awoke with a jerk as he put down his bag. 

“Oh, Harry, it’s you... Good about Ron, isn’t it?” she 
said blearily. “I’m just so — so — so tired,” she 
yawned. “I was up until one o’clock making more 
hats. They’re disappearing like mad!” 



Page | 352Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And sure enough, now that he looked, Harry saw that 
there were woolly hats concealed all around the room 
where unwary elves might accidentally pick them up. 

“Great,” said Harry distractedly; if he did not tell 
somebody soon, he would burst. “Listen, Hermione, I 
was just up in Umbridge’s office and she touched my 
arm ...” 

Hermione listened closely. When Harry had finished 
she said slowly, “You’re worried that You-Know- Who’s 
controlling her like he controlled Quirrell?” 

“Well,” said Harry, dropping his voice, “it’s a 
possibility, isn’t it?” 

“I suppose so,” said Hermione, though she sounded 
unconvinced. “But I don’t think he can be possessing 
her the way he possessed Quirrell, I mean, he’s 
properly alive again now, isn’t he, he’s got his own 
body, he wouldn’t need to share someone else’s. He 
could have her under the Imperius Curse, I 
suppose...” 

Harry watched Fred, George, and Lee Jordan juggling 
empty butterbeer bottles for a moment. Then 
Hermione said, “But last year your scar hurt when 
nobody was touching you, and didn’t Dumbledore say 
it had to do with what You- Know- Who was feeling at 
the time? I mean, maybe this hasn’t got anything to 
do with Umbridge at all, maybe it’s just coincidence it 
happened while you were with her?” 

“She’s evil,” said Harry flatly. “Twisted.” 

“She’s horrible, yes, but ... Harry, I think you ought to 
tell Dumbledore your scar hurt.” 



Page | 353Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was the second time in two days he had been 
advised to go to Dumbledore and his answer to 
Hermione was just the same as his answer to Ron. 

“I’m not bothering him with this. Like you just said, 
it’s not a big deal. It’s been hurting on and off all 
summer — it was just a bit worse tonight, that’s all — 



“Harry, I’m sure Dumbledore would want to be 
bothered by this — ” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, before he could stop himself, 
“that’s the only bit of me Dumbledore cares about, 
isn’t it, my scar?” 

“Don’t say that, it’s not true!” 

“I think I’ll write and tell Sirius about it, see what he 
thinks — ” 

“Harry, you can’t put something like that in a letter!” 
said Hermione, looking alarmed. “Don’t you 
remember, Moody told us to be careful what we put in 
writing! We just can’t guarantee owls aren’t being 
intercepted anymore!” 

“All right, all right, I won’t tell him, then!” said Harry 
irritably. He got to his feet. “I’m going to bed. Tell Ron 
for me, will you?” 

“Oh no,” said Hermione, looking relieved, “if you’re 
going that means I can go without being rude too, I’m 
absolutely exhausted and I want to make some more 
hats tomorrow. Listen, you can help me if you like, 
it’s quite fun, I’m getting better, I can do patterns and 
bobbles and all sorts of things now.” 



Page | 354Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked into her face, which was shining with 
glee, and tried to look as though he was vaguely 
tempted by this offer. 

“Er ... no, I don’t think I will, thanks,” he said. “Er — 
not tomorrow. I’ve got loads of homework to do...” 

And he traipsed off to the boys’ stairs, leaving her 
looking slightly disappointed behind him. 



Page | 355Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






PERCY AND PADFOOT 

Harry was the first to awake in his dormitory next 
morning. He lay for a moment watching dust swirl in 
the chink of sunlight falling through the gap in his 
four-poster’s hangings and savored the thought that 
it was Saturday. The first week of term seemed to 
have dragged on forever, like one gigantic History of 
Magic lesson. 

Judging by the sleepy silence and the freshly minted 
look of that beam of sunlight, it was just after 
daybreak. He pulled open the curtains around his 
bed, got up, and started to dress. The only sound 
apart from the distant twittering of birds was the 
slow, deep breathing of his fellow Gryffindors. He 
opened his schoolbag carefully, pulled out parchment 
and quill, and headed out of the dormitory for the 
common room. 

Making straight for his favorite squashy old armchair 
beside the now extinct fire, Harry settled himself 
down comfortably and unrolled his parchment while 
looking around the room. The detritus of crumpled-up 

Page | 356Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



bits of parchment, old Gobstones, empty ingredient 
jars, and candy wrappers that usually covered the 
common room at the end of each day was gone, as 
were all Hermione’s elf hats. Wondering vaguely how 
many elves had now been set free whether they 
wanted to be or not, Harry uncorked his ink bottle, 
dipped his quill into it, and then held it suspended an 
inch above the smooth yellowish surface of his 
parchment, thinking hard... But after a minute or so 
he found himself staring into the empty grate, at a 
complete loss for what to say. 

He could now appreciate how hard it had been for 
Ron and Hermione to write him letters over the 
summer. How was he supposed to tell Sirius 
everything that had happened over the past week and 
pose all the questions he was burning to ask without 
giving potential letter-thieves a lot of information he 
did not want them to have? 

He sat quite motionless for a while, gazing into the 
fireplace, then, finally coming to a decision, he dipped 
his quill into the ink bottle once more and set it 
resolutely upon the parchment. 

Dear Snuffles, 

Hope you’re okay, the first week back here’s been 
terrible, I’m really glad it’s the weekend. 

We’ve got a new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher, Professor Umbridge. She’s nearly as nice as 
your mum. I’m writing because that thing I wrote to 
you about last summer happened again last night 
when I was doing a detention with Umbridge. 

We’re all missing our biggest friend, we hope he’ll be 
back soon. 



Page | 357Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Please write back quickly. 

Best, 

Harry 

Harry reread this letter several times, trying to see it 
from the point of view of an outsider. He could not see 
how they would know what he was talking about — or 
who he was talking to — just from reading this letter. 
He did hope Sirius would pick up the hint about 
Hagrid and tell them when he might be back: Harry 
did not want to ask directly in case it drew too much 
attention to what Hagrid might be up to while he was 
not at Hogwarts. 

Considering it was a very short letter it had taken a 
long time to write; sunlight had crept halfway across 
the room while he had been working on it, and he 
could now hear distant sounds of movement from the 
dormitories above. Sealing the parchment carefully he 
climbed through the portrait hole and headed off for 
the Owlery. 

“I would not go that way if I were you,” said Nearly 
Headless Nick, drifting disconcertingly through a wall 
just ahead of him as he walked down the passage. 
“Peeves is planning an amusing joke on the next 
person to pass the bust of Paracelsus halfway down 
the corridor.” 

“Does it involve Paracelsus falling on top of the 
person’s head?” asked Harry. 

“Funnily enough, it does,” said Nearly Headless Nick 
in a bored voice. “Subtlety has never been Peeves ’s 
strong point. I’m off to try and find the Bloody 
Baron... He might be able to put a stop to it... See 
you, Harry...” 

Page | 358Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, ’bye,” said Harry and instead of turning right, 
he turned left, taking a longer but safer route up to 
the Owlery. His spirits rose as he walked past window 
after window showing brilliantly blue sky; he had 
training later, he would be back on the Quidditch 
pitch at last — 

Something brushed his ankles. He looked down and 
saw the caretaker’s skeletal gray cat, Mrs. Norris, 
slinking past him. She turned lamplike yellow eyes 
upon him for a moment before disappearing behind a 
statue of Wilfred the Wistful. 

“I’m not doing anything wrong,” Harry called after 
her. She had the unmistakable air of a cat that was 
off to report to her boss, yet Harry could not see why; 
he was perfectly entitled to walk up to the Owlery on 
a Saturday morning. 

The sun was high in the sky now and when Harry 
entered the Owlery the glassless windows dazzled his 
eyes; thick silvery beams of sunlight crisscrossed the 
circular room in which hundreds of owls nestled on 
rafters, a little restless in the early morning light, 
some clearly just returned from hunting. The straw- 
covered floor crunched a little as he stepped across 
tiny animal bones, craning his neck for a sight of 
Hedwig. 

“There you are,” he said, spotting her somewhere near 
the very top of the vaulted ceiling. “Get down here, 

I’ve got a letter for you.” 

