


Page | 831 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Fight the Dark Lord, in the name of brave Regulus! 
Fight!” 

They were hacking and stabbing at the ankles and 
shins of Death Eaters, their tiny faces alive with 
malice, and everywhere Harry looked Death Eaters 
were folding under sheer weight of numbers, 
overcome by spells, dragging arrows from wounds, 
stabbed in the leg by elves, or else simply attempting 
to escape, but swallowed by the oncoming horde. 

But it was not over yet: Harry sped between duelers, 
past struggling prisoners, and into the Great Hall. 

Voldemort was in the center of the battle, and he was 
striking and smiting all within reach. Harry could not 
get a clear shot, but fought his way nearer, still 
invisible, and the Great Hall became more and more 
crowded as everyone who could walk forced their way 
inside. 

Harry saw Yaxley slammed to the floor by George and 
Lee Jordan, saw Dolohov fall with a scream at 
Flitwick’s hands, saw Walden Macnair thrown across 
the room by Hagrid, hit the stone wall opposite, and 
slide unconscious to the ground. He saw Ron and 
Neville bringing down Fenrir Greyback, Aberforth 
Stunning Rookwood, Arthur and Percy flooring 
Thicknesse, and Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy running 
through the crowd, not even attempting to fight, 
screaming for their son. 

Voldemort was now dueling McGonagall, Slughorn, 
and Kingsley all at once, and there was cold hatred in 
his face as they wove and ducked around him, unable 
to finish him — 

Bellatrix was still fighting too, fifty yards away from 
Voldemort, and like her master she dueled three at 

Page | 832 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




once: Hermione, Ginny, and Luna, all battling their 
hardest, but Bellatrix was equal to them, and Harry’s 
attention was diverted as a Killing Curse shot so close 
to Ginny that she missed death by an inch — 

He changed course, running at Bellatrix rather than 
Voldemort, but before he had gone a few steps he was 
knocked sideways. 

“NOT MY DAUGHTER, YOU BITCH!” 

Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, freeing 
her arms. Bellatrix spun on the spot, roaring with 
laughter at the sight of her new challenger. 

“OUT OF MY WAY!” shouted Mrs. Weasley to the three 
girls, and with a swipe of her wand she began to duel. 
Harry watched with terror and elation as Molly 
Weasley’s wand slashed and twirled, and Bellatrix 
Lestrange’s smile faltered and became a snarl. Jets of 
light flew from both wands, the floor around the 
witches’ feet became hot and cracked; both women 
were fighting to kill. 

“No!” Mrs. Weasley cried as a few students ran 
forward, trying to come to her aid. “Get back! Get 
back ! She is mine!” 

Hundreds of people now lined the walls, watching the 
two fights, Voldemort and his three opponents, 
Bellatrix and Molly, and Harry stood, invisible, torn 
between both, wanting to attack and yet to protect, 
unable to be sure that he would not hit the innocent. 

“What will happen to your children when I’ve killed 
you?” taunted Bellatrix, as mad as her master, 
capering as Molly’s curses danced around her. “When 
Mummy’s gone the same way as Freddie?” 



Page | 833 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You — will — never — touch — our — children — 
again!” screamed Mrs. Weasley. 

Bellatrix laughed, the same exhilarated laugh her 
cousin Sirius had given as he toppled backward 
through the veil, and suddenly Harry knew what was 
going to happen before it did. 

Molly’s curse soared beneath Bellatrix’s outstretched 
arm and hit her squarely in the chest, directly over 
her heart. 

Bellatrix’s gloating smile froze, her eyes seemed to 
bulge: For the tiniest space of time she knew what 
had happened, and then she toppled, and the 
watching crowd roared, and Voldemort screamed. 

Harry felt as though he turned in slow motion; he saw 
McGonagall, Kingsley, and Slughorn blasted 
backward, flailing and writhing through the air, as 
Voldemort ’s fury at the fall of his last, best lieutenant 
exploded with the force of a bomb. Voldemort raised 
his wand and directed it at Molly Weasley. 

“Protego\” roared Harry, and the Shield Charm 
expanded in the middle of the Hall, and Voldemort 
stared around for the source as Harry pulled off the 
Invisibility Cloak at last. 

The yell of shock, the cheers, the screams on every 
side of “Harry!” “HE’S ALIVE!” were stifled at once. 

The crowd was afraid, and silence fell abruptly and 
completely as Voldemort and Harry looked at each 
other, and began, at the same moment, to circle each 
other. 

“I don’t want anyone else to try to help,” Harry said 
loudly, and in the total silence his voice carried like a 
trumpet call. “It’s got to be like this. It’s got to be me.” 

Page | 834 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort hissed. 



“Potter doesn’t mean that,” he said, his red eyes wide. 
“That isn’t how he works, is it? Who are you going to 
use as a shield today, Potter?” 

“Nobody,” said Harry simply. “There are no more 
Horcruxes. It’s just you and me. Neither can live while 
the other survives, and one of us is about to leave for 
good. ...” 

“One of us?” jeered Voldemort, and his whole body 
was taut and his red eyes stared, a snake that was 
about to strike. “You think it will be you, do you, the 
boy who has survived by accident, and because 
Dumbledore was pulling the strings?” 

“Accident, was it, when my mother died to save me?” 
asked Harry. They were still moving sideways, both of 
them, in that perfect circle, maintaining the same 
distance from each other, and for Harry no face 
existed but Voldemort’s. “Accident, when I decided to 
fight in that graveyard? Accident, that I didn’t defend 
myself tonight, and still survived, and returned to 
fight again?” 

“Accidents'.” screamed Voldemort, but still he did not 
strike, and the watching crowd was frozen as if 
Petrified, and of the hundreds in the Hall, nobody 
seemed to breathe but they two. “Accident and 
chance and the fact that you crouched and sniveled 
behind the skirts of greater men and women, and 
permitted me to kill them for you!” 

“You won’t be killing anyone else tonight,” said Harry 
as they circled, and stared into each other’s eyes, 
green into red. “You won’t be able to kill any of them 
ever again. Don’t you get it? I was ready to die to stop 
you from hurting these people — ” 

Page | 835 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But you did not!” 



“ — I meant to, and that’s what did it. I’ve done what 
my mother did. They’re protected from you. Haven’t 
you noticed how none of the spells you put on them 
are binding? You can’t torture them. You can’t touch 
them. You don’t learn from your mistakes, Riddle, do 
you?” 

“ You dare — ” 

“Yes, I dare,” said Harry. “I know things you don’t 
know, Tom Riddle. I know lots of important things 
that you don’t. Want to hear some, before you make 
another big mistake?” 

Voldemort did not speak, but prowled in a circle, and 
Harry knew that he kept him temporarily mesmerized 
and at bay, held back by the faintest possibility that 
Harry might indeed know a final secret. ... 

“Is it love again?” said Voldemort, his snake’s face 
jeering. “Dumbledore’s favorite solution, love, which 
he claimed conquered death, though love did not stop 
him falling from the tower and breaking like an old 
waxwork? Love, which did not prevent me stamping 
out your Mudblood mother like a cockroach, Potter — 
and nobody seems to love you enough to run forward 
this time and take my curse. So what will stop you 
dying now when I strike?” 

“Just one thing,” said Harry, and still they circled 
each other, wrapped in each other, held apart by 
nothing but the last secret. 

“If it is not love that will save you this time,” said 
Voldemort, “you must believe that you have magic 
that I do not, or else a weapon more powerful than 
mine?” 

Page | 836 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I believe both,” said Harry, and he saw shock flit 
across the snakelike face, though it was instantly 
dispelled; Voldemort began to laugh, and the sound 
was more frightening than his screams; humorless 
and insane, it echoed around the silent Hall. 

“You think you know more magic than I do?” he said. 
“Than I, than Lord Voldemort, who has performed 
magic that Dumbledore himself never dreamed of?” 

“Oh, he dreamed of it,” said Harry, “but he knew more 
than you, knew enough not to do what you’ve done.” 

“You mean he was weak!” screamed Voldemort. “Too 
weak to dare, too weak to take what might have been 
his, what will be mine!” 

“No, he was cleverer than you,” said Harry, “a better 
wizard, a better man.” 

“I brought about the death of Albus Dumbledore!” 

“You thought you did,” said Harry, “but you were 
wrong.” 

For the first time, the watching crowd stirred as the 
hundreds of people around the walls drew breath as 
one. 

“Dumbledore is dead\” Voldemort hurled the words at 
Harry as though they would cause him unendurable 
pain. “His body decays in the marble tomb in the 
grounds of this castle, I have seen it, Potter, and he 
will not return!” 

“Yes, Dumbledore’s dead,” said Harry calmly, “but 
you didn’t have him killed. He chose his own manner 
of dying, chose it months before he died, arranged the 



Page | 837 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




whole thing with the man you thought was your 
servant.” 

“What childish dream is this?” said Voldemort, but 
still he did not strike, and his red eyes did not waver 
from Harry’s. 

“Severus Snape wasn’t yours,” said Harry. “Snape 
was Dumbledore’s, Dumbledore’s from the moment 
you started hunting down my mother. And you never 
realized it, because of the thing you can’t understand. 
You never saw Snape cast a Patronus, did you, 
Riddle?” 

Voldemort did not answer. They continued to circle 
each other like wolves about to tear each other apart. 

“Snape’s Patronus was a doe,” said Harry, “the same 
as my mother’s, because he loved her for nearly all of 
his life, from the time when they were children. You 
should have realized,” he said as he saw Voldemort’s 
nostrils flare, “he asked you to spare her life, didn’t 
he?” 

“He desired her, that was all,” sneered Voldemort, 

“but when she had gone, he agreed that there were 
other women, and of purer blood, worthier of him — ” 

“Of course he told you that,” said Harry, “but he was 
Dumbledore’s spy from the moment you threatened 
her, and he’s been working against you ever since! 
Dumbledore was already dying when Snape finished 
him!” 

“It matters not!” shrieked Voldemort, who had 
followed every word with rapt attention, but now let 
out a cackle of mad laughter. “It matters not whether 
Snape was mine or Dumbledore’s, or what petty 
obstacles they tried to put in my path! I crushed them 
Page | 838 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




as I crushed your mother, Snape ’s supposed great 
love\ Oh, but it all makes sense, Potter, and in ways 
that you do not understand! 

“Dumbledore was trying to keep the Elder Wand from 
me! He intended that Snape should be the true 
master of the wand! But I got there ahead of you, little 
boy — I reached the wand before you could get your 
hands on it, I understood the truth before you caught 
up. I killed Severus Snape three hours ago, and the 
Elder Wand, the Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny is 
truly mine! Dumbledore ’s last plan went wrong, Harry 
Potter!” 

“Yeah, it did,” said Harry. “You’re right. But before 
you try to kill me, I’d advise you to think about what 
you’ve done. ... Think, and try for some remorse, 
Riddle. ...” 

“What is this?” 

Of all the things that Harry had said to him, beyond 
any revelation or taunt, nothing had shocked 
Voldemort like this. Harry saw his pupils contract to 
thin slits, saw the skin around his eyes whiten. 

“It’s your one last chance,” said Harry, “it’s all you’ve 
got left. ... I’ve seen what you’ll be otherwise. ... Be a 
man ... try ... Try for some remorse. ...” 

“You dare — ?” said Voldemort again. 

“Yes, I dare,” said Harry, “because Dumbledore’s last 
plan hasn’t backfired on me at all. It’s backfired on 
you, Riddle.” 

Voldemort’s hand was trembling on the Elder Wand, 
and Harry gripped Draco’s very tightly. The moment, 
he knew, was seconds away. 

Page | 839 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“That wand still isn’t working properly for you 
because you murdered the wrong person. Severus 
Snape was never the true master of the Elder Wand. 
He never defeated Dumbledore.” 

“He killed — ” 

“Aren’t you listening? Snape never beat Dumbledorel 
Dumbledore’s death was planned between them! 
Dumbledore intended to die undefeated, the wand’s 
last true master! If all had gone as planned, the 
wand’s power would have died with him, because it 
had never been won from him!” 

“But then, Potter, Dumbledore as good as gave me the 
wand!” Voldemort’s voice shook with malicious 
pleasure. “I stole the wand from its last master’s 
tomb! I removed it against its last master’s wishes! Its 
power is mine!” 

“You still don’t get it, Riddle, do you? Possessing the 
wand isn’t enough! Holding it, using it, doesn’t make 
it really yours. Didn’t you listen to Ollivander? The 
wand chooses the wizard. ... The Elder Wand 
recognized a new master before Dumbledore died, 
someone who never even laid a hand on it. The new 
master removed the wand from Dumbledore against 
his will, never realizing exactly what he had done, or 
that the world’s most dangerous wand had given him 
its allegiance. ...” 

Voldemort’s chest rose and fell rapidly, and Harry 
could feel the curse coming, feel it building inside the 
wand pointed at his face. 

“The true master of the Elder Wand was Draco 
Malfoy.” 



Page | 840 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Blank shock showed in Voldemort’s face for a 
moment, but then it was gone. 

“But what does it matter?” he said softly. “Even if you 
are right, Potter, it makes no difference to you and 
me. You no longer have the phoenix wand: We duel 
on skill alone ... and after I have killed you, I can 
attend to Draco Malfoy. ...” 

“But you’re too late,” said Harry. “You’ve missed your 
chance. I got there first. I overpowered Draco weeks 
ago. I took this wand from him.” 

Harry twitched the hawthorn wand, and he felt the 
eyes of everyone in the Hall upon it. 

“So it all comes down to this, doesn’t it?” whispered 
Harry. “Does the wand in your hand know its last 
master was Disarmed? Because if it does ... I am the 
true master of the Elder Wand.” 

A red-gold glow burst suddenly across the enchanted 
sky above them as an edge of dazzling sun appeared 
over the sill of the nearest window. The light hit both 
of their faces at the same time, so that Voldemort’s 
was suddenly a flaming blur. Harry heard the high 
voice shriek as he too yelled his best hope to the 
heavens, pointing Draco’s wand: 

“Avada KedavraV’ 

“ Expelliarmus\ ” 

The bang was like a cannon blast, and the golden 
flames that erupted between them, at the dead center 
of the circle they had been treading, marked the point 
where the spells collided. Harry saw Voldemort’s 
green jet meet his own spell, saw the Elder Wand fly 
high, dark against the sunrise, spinning across the 
Page | 841 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




enchanted ceiling like the head of Nagini, spinning 
through the air toward the master it would not kill, 
who had come to take full possession of it at last. And 
Harry, with the unerring skill of the Seeker, caught 
the wand in his free hand as Voldemort fell backward, 
arms splayed, the slit pupils of the scarlet eyes rolling 
upward. Tom Riddle hit the floor with a mundane 
finality, his body feeble and shrunken, the white 
hands empty, the snakelike face vacant and 
unknowing. Voldemort was dead, killed by his own 
rebounding curse, and Harry stood with two wands in 
his hand, staring down at his enemy’s shell. 

One shivering second of silence, the shock of the 
moment suspended: and then the tumult broke 
around Harry as the screams and the cheers and the 
roars of the watchers rent the air. The fierce new sun 
dazzled the windows as they thundered toward him, 
and the first to reach him were Ron and Hermione, 
and it was their arms that were wrapped around him, 
their incomprehensible shouts that deafened him. 
Then Ginny, Neville, and Luna were there, and then 
all the Weasleys and Hagrid, and Kingsley and 
McGonagall and Flitwick and Sprout, and Harry could 
not hear a word that anyone was shouting, nor tell 
whose hands were seizing him, pulling him, trying to 
hug some part of him, hundreds of them pressing in, 
all of them determined to touch the Boy Who Lived, 
the reason it was over at last — 

The sun rose steadily over Hogwarts, and the Great 
Hall blazed with life and light. Harry was an 
indispensable part of the mingled outpourings of 
jubilation and mourning, of grief and celebration. 

They wanted him there with them, their leader and 
symbol, their savior and their guide, and that he had 
not slept, that he craved the company of only a few of 
them, seemed to occur to no one. He must speak to 
the bereaved, clasp their hands, witness their tears, 
Page | 842 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




receive their thanks, hear the news now creeping in 
from every quarter as the morning drew on; that the 
Imperiused up and down the country had come back 
to themselves, that Death Eaters were fleeing or else 
being captured, that the innocent of Azkaban were 
being released at that very moment, and that Kingsley 
Shacklebolt had been named temporary Minister of 
Magic. ... 

They moved Voldemort’s body and laid it in a 
chamber off the Hall, away from the bodies of Fred, 
Tonks, Lupin, Colin Creevey, and fifty others who had 
died fighting him. McGonagall had replaced the 
House tables, but nobody was sitting according to 
House anymore: All were jumbled together, teachers 
and pupils, ghosts and parents, centaurs and house- 
elves, and Firenze lay recovering in a corner, and 
Grawp peered in through a smashed window, and 
people were throwing food into his laughing mouth. 
After a while, exhausted and drained, Harry found 
himself sitting on a bench beside Luna. 

“I’d want some peace and quiet, if it were me,” she 
said. 

“I’d love some,” he replied. 

“I’ll distract them all,” she said. “Use your Cloak.” 

And before he could say a word she had cried, “Oooh, 
look, a Blibbering Humdinger!” and pointed out of the 
window. Everyone who heard looked around, and 
Harry slid the Cloak up over himself, and got to his 
feet. 

Now he could move through the Hall without 
interference. He spotted Ginny two tables away; she 
was sitting with her head on her mother’s shoulder: 
There would be time to talk later, hours and days and 

Page | 843 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




maybe years in which to talk. He saw Neville, the 
sword of Gryffindor lying beside his plate as he ate, 
surrounded by a knot of fervent admirers. Along the 
aisle between the tables he walked, and he spotted 
the three Malfoys, huddled together as though unsure 
whether or not they were supposed to be there, but 
nobody was paying them any attention. Everywhere 
he looked he saw families reunited, and finally, he 
saw the two whose company he craved most. 

“It’s me,” he muttered, crouching down between 
them. “Will you come with me?” 

They stood up at once, and together he, Ron, and 
Hermione left the Great Hall. Great chunks were 
missing from the marble staircase, part of the 
balustrade gone, and rubble and bloodstains 
occurred every few steps as they climbed. 

Somewhere in the distance they could hear Peeves 
zooming through the corridors singing a victory song 
of his own composition: 

We did it, we bashed them, wee Potter’s the one, 

And Voldy’s gone moldy, so now let’s have fun! 

“Really gives a feeling for the scope and tragedy of the 
thing, doesn’t it?” said Ron, pushing open a door to 
let Harry and Hermione through. 

Happiness would come, Harry thought, but at the 
moment it was muffled by exhaustion, and the pain of 
losing Fred and Lupin and Tonks pierced him like a 
physical wound every few steps. Most of all he felt the 
most stupendous relief, and a longing to sleep. But 
first he owed an explanation to Ron and Hermione, 
who had stuck with him for so long, and who 
deserved the truth. Painstakingly he recounted what 
Page | 844 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




he had seen in the Pensieve and what had happened 
in the forest, and they had not even begun to express 
all their shock and amazement when at last they 
arrived at the place to which they had been walking, 
though none of them had mentioned their 
destination. 

Since he had last seen it, the gargoyle guarding the 
entrance to the headmaster’s study had been knocked 
aside; it stood lopsided, looking a little punch-drunk, 
and Harry wondered whether it would be able to 
distinguish passwords anymore. 

“Can we go up?” he asked the gargoyle. 

“Feel free,” groaned the statue. 

They clambered over him and onto the spiral stone 
staircase that moved slowly upward like an escalator. 
Harry pushed open the door at the top. 

He had one, brief glimpse of the stone Pensieve on the 
desk where he had left it, and then an earsplitting 
noise made him cry out, thinking of curses and 
returning Death Eaters and the rebirth of Voldemort 



But it was applause. All around the walls, the 
headmasters and headmistresses of Hogwarts were 
giving him a standing ovation; they waved their hats 
and in some cases their wigs, they reached through 
their frames to grip each other’s hands; they danced 
up and down on the chairs in which they had been 
painted; Dilys Derwent sobbed unashamedly; Dexter 
Fortescue was waving his ear-trumpet; and Phineas 
Nigellus called, in his high, reedy voice, “And let it be 
noted that Slytherin House played its part! Let our 
contribution not be forgotten!” 



Page | 845 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




But Harry had eyes only for the man who stood in the 
largest portrait directly behind the headmaster’s 
chair. Tears were sliding down from behind the half- 
moon spectacles into the long silver beard, and the 
pride and the gratitude emanating from him filled 
Harry with the same balm as phoenix song. 

At last, Harry held up his hands, and the portraits fell 
respectfully silent, beaming and mopping their eyes 
and waiting eagerly for him to speak. He directed his 
words at Dumbledore, however, and chose them with 
enormous care. Exhausted and bleary-eyed though he 
was, he must make one last effort, seeking one last 
piece of advice. 

“The thing that was hidden in the Snitch,” he began, 

“I dropped it in the forest. I don’t know exactly where, 
but I’m not going to go looking for it again. Do you 
agree?” 

“My dear boy, I do,” said Dumbledore, while his fellow 
pictures looked confused and curious. “A wise and 
courageous decision, but no less than I would have 
expected of you. Does anyone else know where it fell?” 

“No one,” said Harry, and Dumbledore nodded his 
satisfaction. 

“I’m going to keep Ignotus’s present, though,” said 
Harry, and Dumbledore beamed. 

“But of course, Harry, it is yours forever, until you 
pass it on!” 

“And then there’s this.” 

Harry held up the Elder Wand, and Ron and 
Hermione looked at it with a reverence that, even in 



Page | 846 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




his befuddled and sleep-deprived state, Harry did not 
like to see. 

“I don’t want it,” said Harry. 

“What?” said Ron loudly. “Are you mental?” 

“I know it’s powerful,” said Harry wearily. “But I was 
happier with mine. So ...” 

He rummaged in the pouch hung around his neck, 
and pulled out the two halves of holly still just 
connected by the finest thread of phoenix feather. 
Hermione had said that they could not be repaired, 
that the damage was too severe. All he knew was that 
if this did not work, nothing would. 

He laid the broken wand upon the headmaster’s desk, 
touched it with the very tip of the Elder Wand, and 
said, “Reparo.” 

As his wand resealed, red sparks flew out of its end. 
Harry knew that he had succeeded. He picked up the 
holly and phoenix wand and felt a sudden warmth in 
his fingers, as though wand and hand were rejoicing 
at their reunion. 

“I’m putting the Elder Wand,” he told Dumbledore, 
who was watching him with enormous affection and 
admiration, “back where it came from. It can stay 
there. If I die a natural death like Ignotus, its power 
will be broken, won’t it? The previous master will 
never have been defeated. That’ll be the end of it.” 

Dumbledore nodded. They smiled at each other. 

“Are you sure?” said Ron. There was the faintest trace 
of longing in his voice as he looked at the Elder Wand. 



Page | 847 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I think Harry’s right,” said Hermione quietly. 

“That wand’s more trouble than it’s worth,” said 
Harry. “And quite honestly,” he turned away from the 
painted portraits, thinking now only of the four-poster 
bed lying waiting for him in Gryffindor Tower, and 
wondering whether Kreacher might bring him a 
sandwich there, “I’ve had enough trouble for a 
lifetime.” 



Page | 848 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




ayue 




NINETEEN YEARS LATER 

Autumn seemed to arrive suddenly that year. The 
morning of the first of September was crisp and 
golden as an apple, and as the little family bobbed 
across the rumbling road toward the great sooty 
station, the fumes of car exhausts and the breath of 
pedestrians sparkled like cobwebs in the cold air. Two 
large cages rattled on top of the laden trolleys the 
parents were pushing; the owls inside them hooted 
indignantly, and the redheaded girl trailed tearfully 
behind her brothers, clutching her father’s arm. 

“It won’t be long, and you’ll be going too,” Harry told 
her. 

“Two years,” sniffed Lily. “I want to go now\” 

The commuters stared curiously at the owls as the 
family wove its way toward the barrier between 
platforms nine and ten. Albus’s voice drifted back to 
Harry over the surrounding clamor; his sons had 
resumed the argument they had started in the car. 



Page | 849 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“I won’ti I won’t be in Slytherin!” 

“James, give it a rest!” said Ginny. 

“I only said he might be,” said James, grinning at his 
younger brother. “There’s nothing wrong with that. He 
might be in Slyth — ” 

But James caught his mother’s eye and fell silent. 

The five Potters approached the barrier. With a 
slightly cocky look over his shoulder at his younger 
brother, James took the trolley from his mother and 
broke into a run. A moment later, he had vanished. 

“You’ll write to me, won’t you?” Albus asked his 
parents immediately, capitalizing on the momentary 
absence of his brother. 

“Every day, if you want us to,” said Ginny. 

“Not every day,” said Albus quickly. “James says most 
people only get letters from home about once a 
month.” 

“We wrote to James three times a week last year,” 
said Ginny. 

“And you don’t want to believe everything he tells you 
about Hogwarts,” Harry put in. “He likes a laugh, 
your brother.” 

Side by side, they pushed the second trolley forward, 
gathering speed. As they reached the barrier, Albus 
winced, but no collision came. Instead, the family 
emerged onto platform nine and three-quarters, 
which was obscured by thick white steam that was 
pouring from the scarlet Hogwarts Express. Indistinct 
figures were swarming through the mist, into which 
James had already disappeared. 

Page | 850 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Where are they?” asked Albus anxiously, peering at 
the hazy forms they passed as they made their way 
down the platform. 

“Well find them,” said Ginny reassuringly. 

But the vapor was dense, and it was difficult to make 
out anybody’s faces. Detached from their owners, 
voices sounded unnaturally loud. Harry thought he 
heard Percy discoursing loudly on broomstick 
regulations, and was quite glad of the excuse not to 
stop and say hello. ... 

“I think that’s them, Al,” said Ginny suddenly. 

A group of four people emerged from the mist, 
standing alongside the very last carriage. Their faces 
only came into focus when Harry, Ginny, Lily, and 
Albus had drawn right up to them. 

“Hi,” said Albus, sounding immensely relieved. 

Rose, who was already wearing her brand-new 
Hogwarts robes, beamed at him. 

“Parked all right, then?” Ron asked Harry. “I did. 
Hermione didn’t believe I could pass a Muggle driving 
test, did you? She thought I’d have to Confund the 
examiner.” 

“No, I didn’t,” said Hermione, “I had complete faith in 
you.” 

“As a matter of fact, I did Confund him,” Ron 
whispered to Harry, as together they lifted Albus ’s 
trunk and owl onto the train. “I only forgot to look in 
the wing mirror, and let’s face it, I can use a 
Supersensory Charm for that.” 



Page | 851 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Back on the platform, they found Lily and Hugo, 
Rose’s younger brother, having an animated 
discussion about which House they would be sorted 
into when they finally went to Hogwarts. 

“If you’re not in Gryffindor, we’ll disinherit you,” said 
Ron, “but no pressure.” 

“Ron\” 

Lily and Hugo laughed, but Albus and Rose looked 
solemn. 

“He doesn’t mean it,” said Hermione and Ginny, but 
Ron was no longer paying attention. Catching Harry’s 
eye, he nodded covertly to a point some fifty yards 
away. The steam had thinned for a moment, and 
three people stood in sharp relief against the shifting 
mist. 

“Look who it is.” 

Draco Malfoy was standing there with his wife and 
son, a dark coat buttoned up to his throat. His hair 
was receding somewhat, which emphasized the 
pointed chin. The new boy resembled Draco as much 
as Albus resembled Harry. Draco caught sight of 
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny staring at him, 
nodded curtly, and turned away again. 

“So that’s little Scorpius,” said Ron under his breath. 
“Make sure you beat him in every test, Rosie. Thank 
God you inherited your mother’s brains.” 

“Ron, for heaven’s sake,” said Hermione, half stern, 
half amused. “Don’t try to turn them against each 
other before they’ve even started school!” 



Page | 852 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re right, sorry,” said Ron, but unable to help 
himself, he added, “Don’t get too friendly with him, 
though, Rosie. Granddad Weasley would never forgive 
you if you married a pureblood.” 

“Hey!” 

James had reappeared; he had divested himself of his 
trunk, owl, and trolley, and was evidently bursting 
with news. 

“Teddy’s back there,” he said breathlessly, pointing 
back over his shoulder into the billowing clouds of 
steam. “Just seen him! And guess what he’s doing? 
Snogging Victoire\” 

He gazed up at the adults, evidently disappointed by 
the lack of reaction. 

“Our Teddy! Teddy Lupin\ Snogging our Victoire! Our 
cousin! And I asked Teddy what he was doing — ” 

“You interrupted them?” said Ginny. “You are so like 
Ron — ” 

“ — and he said he’d come to see her off! And then he 
told me to go away. He’s snogging her!” James added 
as though worried he had not made himself clear. 

“Oh, it would be lovely if they got married!” whispered 
Lily ecstatically. “Teddy would really be part of the 
family then!” 

“He already comes round for dinner about four times 
a week,” said Harry. “Why don’t we just invite him to 
live with us and have done with it?” 

“Yeah!” said James enthusiastically. “I don’t mind 
sharing with A1 — Teddy could have my room!” 

Page | 853 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry firmly, “you and A1 will share a room 
only when I want the house demolished.” 

He checked the battered old watch that had once 
been Fabian Prewett’s. 

“It’s nearly eleven, you’d better get on board.” 

“Don’t forget to give Neville our love!” Ginny told 
James as she hugged him. 

“Mum! I can’t give a professor love\” 

“But you know Neville — ” 

James rolled his eyes. 

“Outside, yeah, but at school he’s Professor 
Longbottom, isn’t he? I can’t walk into Herbology and 
give him love. ...” 

Shaking his head at his mother’s foolishness, he 
vented his feelings by aiming a kick at Albus. 

“See you later, Al. Watch out for the thestrals.” 

“I thought they were invisible? You said they were 
invisible !” 
