Page | 113Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I did!” said Harry indignantly. “I asked Ron and 
Hermione but they said we’re not allowed in the 
Order, so — ” 

“And they’re quite right,” said Mrs. Weasley. “You’re 
too young.” 

She was sitting bolt upright in her chair, her fists 
clenched upon its arms, every trace of drowsiness 
gone. 

“Since when did someone have to be in the Order of 
the Phoenix to ask questions?” asked Sirius. “Harry’s 
been trapped in that Muggle house for a month. He’s 
got the right to know what’s been happen — ” 

“Hang on!” interrupted George loudly. 

“How come Harry gets his questions answered?” said 
Fred angrily. 

“ We’ve been trying to get stuff out of you for a month 
and you haven’t told us a single stinking thing!” said 
George. 

“ ‘You’re too young, you’re not in the Order,’ ” said 
Fred, in a high-pitched voice that sounded uncannily 
like his mother’s. “Harry’s not even of age!” 

“It’s not my fault you haven’t been told what the 
Order’s doing,” said Sirius calmly. “That’s your 
parents’ decision. Harry, on the other hand — ” 

“It’s not down to you to decide what’s good for Harry!” 
said Mrs. Weasley sharply. Her normally kindly face 
looked dangerous. “You haven’t forgotten what 
Dumbledore said, I suppose?” 



Page | 114Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Which bit?” Sirius asked politely, but with an air as 
though readying himself for a fight. 

“The bit about not telling Harry more than he needs 
to know,” said Mrs. Weasley, placing a heavy 
emphasis on the last three words. 

Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George’s heads turned from 
Sirius to Mrs. Weasley as though following a tennis 
rally. Ginny was kneeling amid a pile of abandoned 
butterbeer corks, watching the conversation with her 
mouth slightly open. Lupin’s eyes were fixed on 
Sirius. 

“I don’t intend to tell him more than he needs to 
know, Molly,” said Sirius. “But as he was the one who 
saw Voldemort come back” (again, there was a 
collective shudder around the table at the name), “he 
has more right than most to — ” 

“He’s not a member of the Order of the Phoenix!” said 
Mrs. Weasley. “He’s only fifteen and — ” 

“ — and he’s dealt with as much as most in the 
Order,” said Sirius, “and more than some — ” 

“No one’s denying what he’s done!” said Mrs. Weasley, 
her voice rising, her fists trembling on the arms of her 
chair. “But he’s still — ” 

“He’s not a child!” said Sirius impatiently. 

“He’s not an adult either!” said Mrs. Weasley, the 
color rising in her cheeks. “He’s not James, Sirius!” 

“I’m perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly,” said 
Sirius coldly. 



Page | 115Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm not sure you are!” said Mrs. Weasley. 

“Sometimes, the way you talk about him, it’s as 
though you think you’ve got your best friend back!” 

“What’s wrong with that?” said Harry. 

“What’s wrong, Harry, is that you are not your father, 
however much you might look like him!” said Mrs. 
Weasley, her eyes still boring into Sirius. “You are still 
at school and adults responsible for you should not 
forget it!” 

“Meaning I’m an irresponsible godfather?” demanded 
Sirius, his voice rising. 

“Meaning you’ve been known to act rashly, Sirius, 
which is why Dumbledore keeps reminding you to 
stay at home and — ” 

“We’ll leave my instructions from Dumbledore out of 
this, if you please!” said Sirius loudly. 

“Arthur!” said Mrs. Weasley, rounding on her 
husband. “Arthur, back me up!” 

Mr. Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his 
glasses and cleaned them slowly on his robes, not 
looking at his wife. Only when he had replaced them 
carefully on his nose did he say, “Dumbledore knows 
the position has changed, Molly. He accepts that 
Harry will have to be filled in to a certain extent now 
that he is staying at headquarters — ” 

“Yes, but there’s a difference between that and 
inviting him to ask whatever he likes!” 

“Personally,” said Lupin quietly, looking away from 
Sirius at last, as Mrs. Weasley turned quickly to him, 
hopeful that finally she was about to get an ally, “I 

Page | 116Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




think it better that Harry gets the facts — not all the 
facts, Molly, but the general picture — from us, rather 
than a garbled version from ... others.” 

His expression was mild, but Harry felt sure that 
Lupin, at least, knew that some Extendable Ears had 
survived Mrs. Weasley’s purge. 

“Well,” said Mrs. Weasley, breathing deeply and 
looking around the table for support that did not 
come, “well ... I can see I’m going to be overruled. I’ll 
just say this: Dumbledore must have had his reasons 
for not wanting Harry to know too much, and 
speaking as someone who has got Harry’s best 
interests at heart — ” 

“He’s not your son,” said Sirius quietly. 

“He’s as good as,” said Mrs. Weasley fiercely. “Who 
else has he got?” 

“He’s got me!” 

“Yes,” said Mrs. Weasley, her lip curling. “The thing 
is, it’s been rather difficult for you to look after him 
while you’ve been locked up in Azkaban, hasn’t it?” 

Sirius started to rise from his chair. 

“Molly, you’re not the only person at this table who 
cares about Harry,” said Lupin sharply. “Sirius, sit 
down.” 

Mrs. Weasley’s lower lip was trembling. Sirius sank 
slowly back into his chair, his face white. 

“I think Harry ought to be allowed a say in this,” 

Lupin continued. “He’s old enough to decide for 
himself.” 

Page | 117Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I want to know what’s been going on,” Harry said at 
once. 

He did not look at Mrs. Weasley. He had been touched 
by what she had said about his being as good as a 
son, but he was also impatient at her mollycoddling. . . 
Sirius was right, he was not a child. 

“Very well,” said Mrs. Weasley, her voice cracking. 
“Ginny — Ron — Hermione — Fred — George — I 
want you out of this kitchen, now.” 

There was instant uproar. 

“We’re of age!” Fred and George bellowed together. 

“If Harry’s allowed, why can’t I?” shouted Ron. 

“Mum, I want to!” wailed Ginny. 

“NO!” shouted Mrs. Weasley, standing up, her eyes 
overbright. “I absolutely forbid — ” 

“Molly, you can’t stop Fred and George,” said Mr. 
Weasley wearily. “They are of age — ” 

“They’re still at school — ” 

“But they’re legally adults now,” said Mr. Weasley in 
the same tired voice. 

Mrs. Weasley was now scarlet in the face. 

“I — oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, but 
Ron — ” 

“Harry’ll tell me and Hermione everything you say 
anyway!” said Ron hotly. “Won’t — won’t you?” he 
added uncertainly, meeting Harry’s eyes. 

Page | 118Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




For a split second, Harry considered telling Ron that 
he wouldn’t tell him a single word, that he could try a 
taste of being kept in the dark and see how he liked 
it. But the nasty impulse vanished as they looked at 
each other. 

“ ’Course I will,” Harry said. Ron and Hermione 
beamed. 

“Fine!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “Fine! Ginny — BED!” 

Ginny did not go quietly. They could hear her raging 
and storming at her mother all the way up the stairs, 
and when she reached the hall Mrs. Black’s 
earsplitting shrieks were added to the din. Lupin 
hurried off to the portrait to restore calm. It was only 
after he had returned, closing the kitchen door 
behind him and taking his seat at the table again, 
that Sirius spoke. 

“Okay, Harry ... what do you want to know?” 

Harry took a deep breath and asked the question that 
had been obsessing him for a month. 

“Where’s Voldemort? What’s he doing? I’ve been trying 
to watch the Muggle news,” he said, ignoring the 
renewed shudders and winces at the name, “and 
there hasn’t been anything that looks like him yet, no 
funny deaths or anything — ” 

“That’s because there haven’t been any suspicious 
deaths yet,” said Sirius, “not as far as we know, 
anyway... And we know quite a lot.” 

“More than he thinks we do anyway,” said Lupin. 



Page | 119Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“How come he’s stopped killing people?” Harry asked. 
He knew that Voldemort had murdered more than 
once in the last year alone. 

“Because he doesn’t want to draw attention to himself 
at the moment,” said Sirius. “It would be dangerous 
for him. His comeback didn’t come off quite the way 
he wanted it to, you see. He messed it up.” 

“Or rather, you messed it up for him,” said Lupin with 
a satisfied smile. 

“How?” Harry asked perplexedly. 

“You weren’t supposed to survive!” said Sirius. 
“Nobody apart from his Death Eaters was supposed to 
know he’d come back. But you survived to bear 
witness.” 

“And the very last person he wanted alerted to his 
return the moment he got back was Dumbledore,” 
said Lupin. “And you made sure Dumbledore knew at 
once.” 

“How has that helped?” Harry asked. 

“Are you kidding?” said Bill incredulously. 
“Dumbledore was the only one You-Know-Who was 
ever scared of!” 

“Thanks to you, Dumbledore was able to recall the 
Order of the Phoenix about an hour after Voldemort 
returned,” said Sirius. 

“So what’s the Order been doing?” said Harry, looking 
around at them all. 

“Working as hard as we can to make sure Voldemort 
can’t carry out his plans,” said Sirius. 

Page | 120Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“How d’you know what his plans are?” Harry asked 
quickly. 



“Dumbledore’s got a shrewd idea,” said Lupin, “and 
Dumbledore’s shrewd ideas normally turn out to be 
accurate.” 

“So what does Dumbledore reckon he’s planning?” 

“Well, firstly, he wants to build up his army again,” 
said Sirius. “In the old days he had huge numbers at 
his command; witches and wizards he’d bullied or 
bewitched into following him, his faithful Death 
Eaters, a great variety of Dark creatures. You heard 
him planning to recruit the giants; well, they’ll be just 
one group he’s after. He’s certainly not going to try 
and take on the Ministry of Magic with only a dozen 
Death Eaters.” 

“So you’re trying to stop him getting more followers?” 
“We’re doing our best,” said Lupin. 

“How?” 

“Well, the main thing is to try and convince as many 
people as possible that You-Know-Who really has 
returned, to put them on their guard,” said Bill. “It’s 
proving tricky, though.” 

“Why?” 

“Because of the Ministry’s attitude,” said Tonks. “You 
saw Cornelius Fudge after You-Know-Who came back, 
Harry. Well, he hasn’t shifted his position at all. He’s 
absolutely refusing to believe it’s happened.” 

“But why?” said Harry desperately. “Why’s he being 
so stupid? If Dumbledore — ” 

Page | 121Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah, well, you’ve put your finger on the problem,” said 
Mr. Weasley with a wry smile. “Dumbledore.” 

“Fudge is frightened of him, you see,” said Tonks 
sadly. 

“Frightened of Dumbledore?” said Harry 
incredulously. 

“Frightened of what he’s up to,” said Mr. Weasley. 
“You see, Fudge thinks Dumbledore’s plotting to 
overthrow him. He thinks Dumbledore wants to be 
Minister of Magic.” 

“But Dumbledore doesn’t want — ” 

“Of course he doesn’t,” said Mr. Weasley. “He’s never 
wanted the Minister’s job, even though a lot of people 
wanted him to take it when Millicent Bagnold retired. 
Fudge came to power instead, but he’s never quite 
forgotten how much popular support Dumbledore 
had, even though Dumbledore never applied for the 
job.” 

“Deep down, Fudge knows Dumbledore’s much 
cleverer than he is, a much more powerful wizard, 
and in the early days of his Ministry he was forever 
asking Dumbledore for help and advice,” said Lupin. 
“But it seems that he’s become fond of power now, 
and much more confident. He loves being Minister of 
Magic, and he’s managed to convince himself that 
he’s the clever one and Dumbledore’s simply stirring 
up trouble for the sake of it.” 

“How can he think that?” said Harry angrily. “How 
can he think Dumbledore would just make it all up — 
that I’d make it all up?” 



Page | 122Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Because accepting that Voldemort’s back would 
mean trouble like the Ministry hasn’t had to cope 
with for nearly fourteen years,” said Sirius bitterly. 
“Fudge just can’t bring himself to face it. It’s so much 
more comfortable to convince himself Dumbledore’s 
lying to destabilize him.” 

“You see the problem,” said Lupin. “While the 
Ministry insists there is nothing to fear from 
Voldemort, it’s hard to convince people he’s back, 
especially as they really don’t want to believe it in the 
first place. What’s more, the Ministry’s leaning heavily 
on the Daily Prophet not to report any of what they’re 
calling Dumbledore’s rumormongering, so most of the 
Wizarding community are completely unaware 
anything’s happened, and that makes them easy 
targets for the Death Eaters if they’re using the 
Imperius Curse.” 

“But you’re telling people, aren’t you?” said Harry, 
looking around at Mr. Weasley, Sirius, Bill, 
Mundungus, Lupin, and Tonks. “You’re letting people 
know he’s back?” 

They all smiled humorlessly. 

“Well, as everyone thinks I’m a mad mass murderer 
and the Ministry’s put a ten-thousand-Galleon price 
on my head, I can hardly stroll up the street and start 
handing out leaflets, can I?” said Sirius restlessly. 

“And I’m not a very popular dinner guest with most of 
the community,” said Lupin. “It’s an occupational 
hazard of being a werewolf.” 

“Tonks and Arthur would lose their jobs at the 
Ministry if they started shooting their mouths off,” 
said Sirius, “and it’s very important for us to have 



Page | 123Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




spies inside the Ministry, because you can bet 
Voldemort will have them.” 

“We’ve managed to convince a couple of people, 
though,” said Mr. Weasley. “Tonks here, for one — 
she’s too young to have been in the Order of the 
Phoenix last time, and having Aurors on our side is a 
huge advantage — Kingsley Shacklebolt’s been a real 
asset too. He’s in charge of the hunt for Sirius, so he’s 
been feeding the Ministry information that Sirius is in 
Tibet.” 

“But if none of you’s putting the news out that 
Voldemort ’s back — ” Harry began. 

“Who said none of us was putting the news out?” said 
Sirius. “Why d’you think Dumbledore’s in such 
trouble?” 

“What d’you mean?” Harry asked. 

“They’re trying to discredit him,” said Lupin. “Didn’t 
you see the Daily Prophet last week? They reported 
that he’d been voted out of the Chairmanship of the 
International Confederation of Wizards because he’s 
getting old and losing his grip, but it’s not true, he 
was voted out by Ministry wizards after he made a 
speech announcing Voldemort’s return. They’ve 
demoted him from Chief Warlock on the Wizengamot 
— that’s the Wizard High Court — and they’re talking 
about taking away his Order of Merlin, First Class, 
too.” 

“But Dumbledore says he doesn’t care what they do 
as long as they don’t take him off the Chocolate Frog 
cards,” said Bill, grinning. 

“It’s no laughing matter,” said Mr. Weasley shortly. “If 
he carries on defying the Ministry like this, he could 

Page | 124Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




end up in Azkaban and the last thing we want is 
Dumbledore locked up. While You-Know-Who knows 
Dumbledore’s out there and wise to what he’s up to, 
he’s going to go cautiously for a while. If 
Dumbledore’s out of the way — well, You-Know-Who 
will have a clear field.” 

“But if Voldemort’s trying to recruit more Death 
Eaters, it’s bound to get out that he’s come back, isn’t 
it?” asked Harry desperately. 

“Voldemort doesn’t march up to people’s houses and 
bang on their front doors, Harry,” said Sirius. “He 
tricks, jinxes, and blackmails them. He’s well- 
practiced at operating in secrecy. In any case, 
gathering followers is only one thing he’s interested 
in, he’s got other plans too, plans he can put into 
operation very quietly indeed, and he’s concentrating 
on them at the moment.” 

“What’s he after apart from followers?” Harry asked 
swiftly. 

He thought he saw Sirius and Lupin exchange the 
most fleeting of looks before Sirius said, “Stuff he can 
only get by stealth.” 

When Harry continued to look puzzled, Sirius said, 
“Like a weapon. Something he didn’t have last time.” 

“When he was powerful before?” 

“Yes.” 

“Like what kind of weapon?” said Harry. “Something 
worse than the Avada Kedavra — ?” 

“That’s enough.” 



Page | 125Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley spoke from the shadows beside the 
door. Harry had not noticed her return from taking 
Ginny upstairs. Her arms were crossed and she 
looked furious. 

“I want you in bed, now. All of you,” she added, 
looking around at Fred, George, Ron, and Hermione. 

“You can’t boss us — ” Fred began. 

“Watch me,” snarled Mrs. Weasley. She was trembling 
slightly as she looked at Sirius. “You’ve given Harry 
plenty of information. Any more and you might just 
as well induct him into the Order straightaway.” 

“Why not?” said Harry quickly. “I’ll join, I want to join, 
I want to fight — ” 

“No.” 

It was not Mrs. Weasley who spoke this time, but 
Lupin. 

“The Order is comprised only of overage wizards,” he 
said. “Wizards who have left school,” he added, as 
Fred and George opened their mouths. “There are 
dangers involved of which you can have no idea, any 
of you ... I think Molly’s right, Sirius. We’ve said 
enough.” 

Sirius half-shrugged but did not argue. Mrs. Weasley 
beckoned imperiously to her sons and Hermione. One 
by one they stood up and Harry, recognizing defeat, 
followed suit. 



Page | 126Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 







THE NOBLE AND MOST ANCIENT 
HOUSE OF BLACK 

Mrs. Weasley followed them upstairs looking grim. 

“I want you all to go straight to bed, no talking,” she 
said as they reached the first landing. “We’ve got a 
busy day tomorrow. I expect Ginny’s asleep,” she 
added to Hermione, “so try not to wake her up.” 

“Asleep, yeah, right,” said Fred in an undertone, after 
Hermione bade them good night and they were 
climbing to the next floor. “If Ginny’s not lying awake 
waiting for Hermione to tell her everything they said 
downstairs, then I’m a flobberworm...” 

“All right, Ron, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley on the 
second landing, pointing them into their bedroom. 

“Off to bed with you.” 

“ ’Night,” Harry and Ron said to the twins. 

“Sleep tight,” said Fred, winking. 

Page | 127Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Mrs. Weasley closed the door behind Harry with a 
sharp snap. The bedroom looked, if anything, even 
danker and gloomier than it had on first sight. The 
blank picture on the wall was now breathing very 
slowly and deeply, as though its invisible occupant 
was asleep. Harry put on his pajamas, took off his 
glasses, and climbed into his chilly bed while Ron 
threw Owl Treats up on top of the wardrobe to pacify 
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon, who were clattering around 
and rustling their wings restlessly. 

“We can’t let them out to hunt every night,” Ron 
explained as he pulled on his maroon pajamas. 
“Dumbledore doesn’t want too many owls swooping 
around the square, thinks it’ll look suspicious. Oh 
yeah ... I forgot...” 

He crossed to the door and bolted it. 

“What ’re you doing that for?” 

“Kreacher,” said Ron as he turned off the light. “First 
night I was here he came wandering in at three in the 
morning. Trust me, you don’t want to wake up and 
find him prowling around your room. Anyway ...” He 
got into his bed, settled down under the covers, then 
turned to look at Harry in the darkness. Harry could 
see his outline by the moonlight filtering in through 
the grimy window. “What d’you reckon?” 

Harry didn’t need to ask what Ron meant. 

“Well, they didn’t tell us much we couldn’t have 
guessed, did they?” he said, thinking of all that had 
been said downstairs. “I mean, all they’ve really said 
is that the Order’s trying to stop people joining Vol — ” 

There was a sharp intake of breath from Ron. 



Page | 128Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ — demort” said Harry firmly. “When are you going to 
start using his name? Sirius and Lupin do.” 



Ron ignored this last comment. “Yeah, you’re right,” 
he said. “We already knew nearly everything they told 
us, from using the Extendable Ears. The only new bit 
was — ” 

Crack. 

“OUCH!” 

“Keep your voice down, Ron, or Mum’ll be back up 
here.” 

“You two just Apparated on my knees!” 

“Yeah, well, it’s harder in the dark — ” 

Harry saw the blurred outlines of Fred and George 
leaping down from Ron’s bed. There was a groan of 
bedsprings and Harry’s mattress descended a few 
inches as George sat down near his feet. 

“So, got there yet?” said George eagerly. 

“The weapon Sirius mentioned?” said Harry. 

“Let slip, more like,” said Fred with relish, now sitting 
next to Ron. “We didn’t hear about that on the old 
Extendables, did we?” 

“What d’you reckon it is?” said Harry. 

“Could be anything,” said Fred. 

“But there can’t be anything worse than the Avada 
Kedavra curse, can there?” said Ron. “What’s worse 
than death?” 

Page | 129Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Maybe it’s something that can kill loads of people at 
once,” suggested George. 

“Maybe it’s some particularly painful way of killing 
people,” said Ron fearfully. 

“He’s got the Cruciatus Curse for causing pain,” said 
Harry. “He doesn’t need anything more efficient than 
that.” 

There was a pause and Harry knew that the others, 
like him, were wondering what horrors this weapon 
could perpetrate. 

“So who d’you thinks got it now?” asked George. 

“I hope it’s our side,” said Ron, sounding slightly 
nervous. 

“If it is, Dumbledore’s probably keeping it,” said Fred. 

“Where?” said Ron quickly. “Hogwarts?” 

“Bet it is!” said George. “That’s where he hid the 
Sorcerer’s Stone!” 

“A weapon’s going to be a lot bigger than the Stone, 
though!” said Ron. 

“Not necessarily,” said Fred. 

“Yeah, size is no guarantee of power,” said George. 
“Look at Ginny.” 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry. 

“You’ve never been on the receiving end of one of her 
Bat-Bogey Hexes, have you?” 



Page | 130Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Shhh!” said Fred, half-rising from the bed. “Listen!” 



They fell silent. Footsteps were coming up the stairs 
again. 

“Mum,” said George, and without further ado there 
was a loud crack and Harry felt the weight vanish 
from the end of his bed. A few seconds later and they 
heard the floorboard creak outside their door; Mrs. 
Weasley was plainly listening to see whether they 
were talking or not. 

Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted dolefully. The 
floorboard creaked again and they heard her heading 
upstairs to check on Fred and George. 

“She doesn’t trust us at all, you know,” said Ron 
regretfully. 

Harry was sure he would not be able to fall asleep; 
the evening had been so packed with things to think 
about that he fully expected to lie awake for hours 
mulling it all over. He wanted to continue talking to 
Ron, but Mrs. Weasley was now creaking back 
downstairs again, and once she had gone he distinctly 
heard others making their way upstairs... In fact, 
many-legged creatures were cantering softly up and 
down outside the bedroom door, and Hagrid, the Care 
of Magical Creatures teacher, was saying, “Beauties, 
aren’ they, eh, Harry? We’ll be study in’ weapons this 
term...” And Harry saw that the creatures had 
cannons for heads and were wheeling to face him... 

He ducked... 

The next thing he knew, he was curled in a warm ball 
under his bedclothes, and George’s loud voice was 
filling the room. 



Page | 131Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Mum says get up, your breakfast is in the kitchen 
and then she needs you in the drawing room, there 
are loads more doxies than she thought and she’s 
found a nest of dead puffskeins under the sofa.” 

Half an hour later, Harry and Ron, who had dressed 
and breakfasted quickly, entered the drawing room, a 
long, high-ceilinged room on the first floor with olive- 
green walls covered in dirty tapestries. The carpet 
exhaled little clouds of dust every time someone put 
their foot on it and the long, moss-green velvet 
curtains were buzzing as though swarming with 
invisible bees. It was around these that Mrs. Weasley, 
Hermione, Ginny, Fred, and George were grouped, all 
looking rather peculiar, as they had tied cloths over 
their noses and mouths. Each of them was also 
holding a large bottle of black liquid with a nozzle at 
the end. 

“Cover your faces and take a spray,” Mrs. Weasley 
said to Harry and Ron the moment she saw them, 
pointing to two more bottles of black liquid standing 
on a spindle-legged table. “It’s Doxycide. I’ve never 
seen an infestation this bad — what that house-elf’s 
been doing for the last ten years — ” 

Hermione ’s face was half concealed by a tea towel but 
Harry distinctly saw her throw a reproachful look at 
Mrs. Weasley at these words. 

“Kreacher’s really old, he probably couldn’t manage — 



“You’d be surprised what Kreacher can manage when 
he wants to, Hermione,” said Sirius, who had just 
entered the room carrying a bloodstained bag of what 
appeared to be dead rats. “I’ve just been feeding 
Buckbeak,” he added, in reply to Harry’s inquiring 



Page | 132Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




look. “I keep him upstairs in my mother’s bedroom. 
Anyway ... this writing desk ...” 

He dropped the bag of rats onto an armchair, then 
bent over to examine the locked cabinet which, Harry 
now noticed for the first time, was shaking slightly. 

“Well, Molly, I’m pretty sure this is a boggart,” said 
Sirius, peering through the keyhole, “but perhaps we 
ought to let Mad-Eye have a shifty at it before we let it 
out — knowing my mother it could be something 
much worse.” 

“Right you are, Sirius,” said Mrs. Weasley. 

They were both speaking in carefully light, polite 
voices that told Harry quite plainly that neither had 
forgotten their disagreement of the night before. 

A loud, clanging bell sounded from downstairs, 
followed at once by the cacophony of screams and 
wails that had been triggered the previous night by 
Tonks knocking over the umbrella stand. 

“I keep telling them not to ring the doorbell!” said 
Sirius exasperatedly, hurrying back out of the room. 
They heard him thundering down the stairs as Mrs. 
Black’s screeches echoed up through the house once 
more: “Stains of dishonor, filthy half-breeds, blood 
traitors, children of filth ...” 

“Close the door, please, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley. 

Harry took as much time as he dared to close the 
drawing room door; he wanted to listen to what was 
going on downstairs. Sirius had obviously managed to 
shut the curtains over his mother’s portrait because 
she had stopped screaming. He heard Sirius walking 
down the hall, then the clattering of the chain on the 
Page | 133Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




front door, and then a deep voice he recognized as 
Kingsley Shacklebolt’s saying, “Hestia’s just relieved 
me, so she’s got Moody’s cloak now, thought I’d leave 
a report for Dumbledore...” 

Feeling Mrs. Weasley’s eyes on the back of his head, 
Harry regretfully closed the drawing room door and 
rejoined the doxy party. 

Mrs. Weasley was bending over to check the page on 
doxies in Gilderoy Lockhart’s Guide to Household 
Pests, which was lying open on the sofa. 

“Right, you lot, you need to be careful, because doxies 
bite and their teeth are poisonous. I’ve got a bottle of 
antidote here, but I’d rather nobody needed it.” 

She straightened up, positioned herself squarely in 
front of the curtains, and beckoned them all forward. 

“When I say the word, start spraying immediately,” 
she said. “They’ll come flying out at us, I expect, but it 
says on the sprays one good squirt will paralyze them. 
When they’re immobilized, just throw them in this 
bucket.” 

She stepped carefully out of their line of fire and 
raised her own spray. “All right — squirti” 

Harry had been spraying only a few seconds when a 
fully grown doxy came soaring out of a fold in the 
material, shiny beetlelike wings whirring, tiny needle- 
sharp teeth bared, its fairylike body covered with 
thick black hair and its four tiny fists clenched with 
fury. Harry caught it full in the face with a blast of 
Doxycide; it froze in midair and fell, with a 
surprisingly loud thunk, onto the worn carpet below. 
Harry picked it up and threw it in the bucket. 



Page | 134Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Fred, what are you doing?” said Mrs. Weasley 
sharply. “Spray that at once and throw it away!” 

Harry looked around. Fred was holding a struggling 
doxy between his forefinger and thumb. 

“Right-o,” Fred said brightly, spraying the doxy 
quickly in the face so that it fainted, but the moment 
Mrs. Weasley’s back was turned he pocketed it with a 
wink. 

“We want to experiment with doxy venom for our 
Skiving Snack-boxes,” George told Harry under his 
breath. 

Deftly spraying two doxies at once as they soared 
straight for his nose, Harry moved closer to George 
and muttered out of the corner of his mouth, “What 
are Skiving Snackboxes?” 

“Range of sweets to make you ill,” George whispered, 
keeping a wary eye on Mrs. Weasley’s back. “Not 
seriously ill, mind, just ill enough to get you out of a 
class when you feel like it. Fred and I have been 
developing them this summer. They’re double-ended, 
color-coded chews. If you eat the orange half of the 
Puking Pastilles, you throw up. Moment you’ve been 
rushed out of the lesson for the hospital wing, you 
swallow the purple half — ” 

“ ‘ — which restores you to full fitness, enabling you to 
pursue the leisure activity of your own choice during 
an hour that would otherwise have been devoted to 
unprofitable boredom.’ That’s what we’re putting in 
the adverts, anyway,” whispered Fred, who had edged 
over out of Mrs. Weasley’s line of vision and was now 
sweeping a few stray doxies from the floor and adding 
them to his pocket. “But they still need a bit of work. 
At the moment our testers are having a bit of trouble 
Page | 135Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




stopping puking long enough to swallow the purple 
end.” 



“Testers?” 

“Us,” said Fred. “We take it in turns. George did the 
Fainting Fancies — we both tried the Nosebleed 
