



“Urgh,” said Hermione, holding up the skirts of her 
robe to avoid the puddles of sick. “It would have made 
much less mess to Stun him too.” 

“Yeah,” said Ron, emerging from under the cloak 
holding the wizard’s bag, “but I still think a whole pile 
of unconscious bodies would have drawn more 
attention. Keen on his job, though, isn’t he? Chuck us 
the hair and the potion, then.” 

Within two minutes, Ron stood before them, as small 
and ferrety as the sick wizard, and wearing the navy 
blue robes that had been folded in his bag. 

“Weird he wasn’t wearing them today, wasn’t it, 
seeing how much he wanted to go? Anyway, I’m Reg 
Cattermole, according to the label in the back.” 

“Now wait here,” Hermione told Harry, who was still 
under the Invisibility Cloak, “and we’ll be back with 
some hairs for you.” 

He had to wait ten minutes, but it seemed much 
longer to Harry, skulking alone in the sick-splattered 
alleyway beside the door concealing the Stunned 
Mafalda. Finally Ron and Hermione reappeared. 

“We don’t know who he is,” Hermione said, passing 
Harry several curly black hairs, “but he’s gone home 
with a dreadful nosebleed! Here, he’s pretty tall, you’ll 
need bigger robes. ...” 

She pulled out a set of the old robes Kreacher had 
laundered for them, and Harry retired to take the 
potion and change. 

Once the painful transformation was complete he was 
more than six feet tall and, from what he could tell 
from his well-muscled arms, powerfully built. He also 

Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




had a beard. Stowing the Invisibility Cloak and his 
glasses inside his new robes, he rejoined the other 
two. 

“Blimey, that’s scary,” said Ron, looking up at Harry, 
who now towered over him. 

“Take one of Mafalda’s tokens,” Hermione told Harry, 
“and let’s go, it’s nearly nine.” 

They stepped out of the alleyway together. Fifty yards 
along the crowded pavement there were spiked black 
railings flanking two flights of steps, one labeled 
GENTLEMEN, the other LADIES. 

“See you in a moment, then,” said Hermione 
nervously, and she tottered off down the steps to 
LADIES. Harry and Ron joined a number of oddly 
dressed men descending into what appeared to be an 
ordinary underground public toilet, tiled in grimy 
black and white. 

“Morning, Reg!” called another wizard in navy blue 
robes as he let himself into a cubicle by inserting his 
golden token into a slot in the door. “Blooming pain in 
the bum, this, eh? Forcing us all to get to work this 
way! Who are they expecting to turn up, Harry 
Potter?” 

The wizard roared with laughter at his own wit. Ron 
gave a forced chuckle. 

“Yeah,” he said, “stupid, isn’t it?” 

And he and Harry let themselves into adjoining 
cubicles. 

To Harry’s left and right came the sound of flushing. 
He crouched down and peered through the gap at the 

Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




bottom of the cubicle, just in time to see a pair of 
booted feet climbing into the toilet next door. He 
looked left and saw Ron blinking at him. 

“We have to flush ourselves in?” he whispered. 

“Looks like it,” Harry whispered back; his voice came 
out deep and gravelly. 

They both stood up. Feeling exceptionally foolish, 
Harry clambered into the toilet. 

He knew at once that he had done the right thing; 
though he appeared to be standing in water, his 
shoes, feet, and robes remained quite dry. He reached 
up, pulled the chain, and next moment had zoomed 
down a short chute, emerging out of a fireplace into 
the Ministry of Magic. 

He got up clumsily; there was a lot more of his body 
than he was accustomed to. The great Atrium seemed 
darker than Harry remembered it. Previously a golden 
fountain had filled the center of the hall, casting 
shimmering spots of light over the polished wooden 
floor and walls. Now a gigantic statue of black stone 
dominated the scene. It was rather frightening, this 
vast sculpture of a witch and a wizard sitting on 
ornately carved thrones, looking down at the Ministry 
workers toppling out of fireplaces below them. 
Engraved in foot-high letters at the base of the statue 
were the words MAGIC IS MIGHT. 

Harry received a heavy blow on the back of the legs: 
Another wizard had just flown out of the fireplace 
behind him. 

“Out of the way, can’t y — oh, sorry, Runcorn!” 



Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Clearly frightened, the balding wizard hurried away. 
Apparently the man whom Harry was impersonating, 
Runcorn, was intimidating. 

“Psst!” said a voice, and he looked around to see a 
wispy little witch and the ferrety wizard from Magical 
Maintenance gesturing to him from over beside the 
statue. Harry hastened to join them. 

“You got in all right, then?” Hermione whispered to 
Harry. 

“No, he’s still stuck in the bog,” said Ron. 

“Oh, very funny ... It’s horrible, isn’t it?” she said to 
Harry, who was staring up at the statue. “Have you 
seen what they’re sitting on? 

Harry looked more closely and realized that what he 
had thought were decoratively carved thrones were 
actually mounds of carved humans: hundreds and 
hundreds of naked bodies, men, women, and 
children, all with rather stupid, ugly faces, twisted 
and pressed together to support the weight of the 
handsomely robed wizards. 

“Muggles,” whispered Hermione. “In their rightful 
place. Come on, let’s get going.” 

They joined the stream of witches and wizards moving 
toward the golden gates at the end of the hall, looking 
around as surreptitiously as possible, but there was 
no sign of the distinctive figure of Dolores Umbridge. 
They passed through the gates and into a smaller 
hall, where queues were forming in front of twenty 
golden grilles housing as many lifts. They had barely 
joined the nearest one when a voice said, 

“Cattermole!” 



Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




They looked around: Harry’s stomach turned over. 
One of the Death Eaters who had witnessed 
Dumbledore’s death was striding toward them. The 
Ministry workers beside them fell silent, their eyes 
downcast; Harry could feel fear rippling through 
them. The man’s scowling, slightly brutish face was 
somehow at odds with his magnificent, sweeping 
robes, which were embroidered with much gold 
thread. Someone in the crowd around the lifts called 
sycophantically, “Morning, Yaxley!” Yaxley ignored 
them. 

“I requested somebody from Magical Maintenance to 
sort out my office, Cattermole. It’s still raining in 
there.” 

Ron looked around as though hoping somebody else 
would intervene, but nobody spoke. 

“Raining ... in your office? That’s — that’s not good, is 
it?” 



Ron gave a nervous laugh. Yaxley’s eyes widened. 

“You think it’s funny, Cattermole, do you?” 

A pair of witches broke away from the queue for the 
lift and bustled off. 

“No,” said Ron, “no, of course — ” 

“You realize that I am on my way downstairs to 
interrogate your wife, Cattermole? In fact, I’m quite 
surprised you’re not down there holding her hand 
while she waits. Already given her up as a bad job, 
have you? Probably wise. Be sure and marry a 
pureblood next time.” 



Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione had let out a little squeak of horror. Yaxley 
looked at her. She coughed feebly and turned away. 

“I — I — ” stammered Ron. 

“But if my wife were accused of being a Mudblood,” 
said Yaxley, “ — not that any woman I married would 
ever be mistaken for such filth — and the Head of the 
Department of Magical Law Enforcement needed a job 
doing, I would make it my priority to do that job, 
Cattermole. Do you understand me?” 

“Yes,” whispered Ron. 

“Then attend to it, Cattermole, and if my office is not 
completely dry within an hour, your wife’s Blood 
Status will be in even graver doubt than it is now.” 

The golden grille before them clattered open. With a 
nod and unpleasant smile to Harry, who was 
evidently expected to appreciate this treatment of 
Cattermole, Yaxley swept away toward another lift. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered theirs, but nobody 
followed them: It was as if they were infectious. The 
grilles shut with a clang and the lift began to move 
upward. 

“What am I going to do?” Ron asked the other two at 
once; he looked stricken. “If I don’t turn up, my wife 
— I mean, Cattermole ’s wife — ” 

“Well come with you, we should stick together — ” 
began Harry, but Ron shook his head feverishly. 

“That’s mental, we haven’t got much time. You two 
find Umbridge, I’ll go and sort out Yaxley’s office — 
but how do I stop it raining?” 



Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Try Finite Incantatem,” said Hermione at once, “that 
should stop the rain if it’s a hex or curse; if it doesn’t, 
something’s gone wrong with an Atmospheric Charm, 
which will be more difficult to fix, so as an interim 
measure try Impervius to protect his belongings — ” 

“Say it again, slowly — ” said Ron, searching his 
pockets desperately for a quill, but at that moment 
the lift juddered to a halt. A disembodied female voice 
said, “Level four, Department for the Regulation and 
Control of Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, 
Being, and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liaison Office, and 
Pest Advisory Bureau,” and the grilles slid open again, 
admitting a couple of wizards and several pale violet 
paper airplanes that fluttered around the lamp in the 
ceiling of the lift. 

“Morning, Albert,” said a bushily whiskered man, 
smiling at Harry. He glanced over at Ron and 
Hermione as the lift creaked upward once more; 
Hermione was now whispering frantic instructions to 
Ron. The wizard leaned toward Harry, leering, and 
muttered, “Dirk Cresswell, eh? From Goblin Liaison? 
Nice one, Albert. I’m pretty confident I’ll get his job 
now!” 

He winked. Harry smiled back, hoping that this would 
suffice. The lift stopped; the grilles opened once more. 

“Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, 
including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror 
Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration 
Services,” said the disembodied witch’s voice. 

Harry saw Hermione give Ron a little push and he 
hurried out of the lift, followed by the other wizards, 
leaving Harry and Hermione alone. The moment the 
golden door had closed Hermione said, very fast, 
“Actually, Harry, I think I’d better go after him, I don’t 
Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




think he knows what he’s doing and if he gets caught 
the whole thing — ” 



“Level one, Minister of Magic and Support Staff.” 

The golden grilles slid apart again and Hermione 
gasped. Four people stood before them, two of them 
deep in conversation: a longhaired wizard wearing 
magnificent robes of black and gold, and a squat, 
toadlike witch wearing a velvet bow in her short hair 
and clutching a clipboard to her chest. 



Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE MUGGLE-BORN REGISTRATION 
COMMISSION 

“Ah, Mafalda!” said Umbridge, looking at Hermione. 
“Travers sent you, did he?” 

“Y-yes,” squeaked Hermione. 

“Good, youll do perfectly well.” Umbridge spoke to the 
wizard in black and gold. “That’s that problem solved, 
Minister, if Mafalda can be spared for record-keeping 
we shall be able to start straightaway.” She consulted 
her clipboard. “Ten people today and one of them the 
wife of a Ministry employee! Tut, tut ... even here, in 
the heart of the Ministry!” She stepped into the lift 
beside Hermione, as did the two wizards who had 
been listening to Umbridge’s conversation with the 
Minister. “We’ll go straight down, Mafalda, you’ll find 
everything you need in the courtroom. Good morning, 
Albert, aren’t you getting out?” 

“Yes, of course,” said Harry in Runcorn’s deep voice. 



Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Harry stepped out of the lift. The golden grilles 
clanged shut behind him. Glancing over his shoulder, 
Harry saw Hermione’s anxious face sinking back out 
of sight, a tall wizard on either side of her, Umbridge’s 
velvet hair-bow level with her shoulder. 

“What brings you up here, Runcorn?” asked the new 
Minister of Magic. His long black hair and beard were 
streaked with silver, and a great overhanging 
forehead shadowed his glinting eyes, putting Harry in 
mind of a crab looking out from beneath a rock. 

“Needed a quick word with,” Harry hesitated for a 
fraction of a second, “Arthur Weasley. Someone said 
he was up on level one.” 

“Ah,” said Pius Thicknesse. “Has he been caught 
having contact with an Undesirable?” 

“No,” said Harry, his throat dry. “No, nothing like 
that.” 

“Ah, well. It’s only a matter of time,” said Thicknesse. 
“If you ask me, the blood traitors are as bad as the 
Mudbloods. Good day, Runcorn.” 

“Good day, Minister.” 

Harry watched Thicknesse march away along the 
thickly carpeted corridor. The moment the Minister 
had passed out of sight, Harry tugged the Invisibility 
Cloak out from under his heavy black cloak, threw it 
over himself, and set off along the corridor in the 
opposite direction. Runcorn was so tall that Harry 
was forced to stoop to make sure his big feet were 
hidden. 

Panic pulsed in the pit of his stomach. As he passed 
gleaming wooden door after gleaming wooden door, 

Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




each bearing a small plaque with the owner’s name 
and occupation upon it, the might of the Ministry, its 
complexity, its impenetrability, seemed to force itself 
upon him so that the plan he had been carefully 
concocting with Ron and Hermione over the past four 
weeks seemed laughably childish. They had 
concentrated all their efforts on getting inside without 
being detected: They had not given a moment’s 
thought to what they would do if they were forced to 
separate. Now Hermione was stuck in court 
proceedings, which would undoubtedly last hours; 

Ron was struggling to do magic that Harry was sure 
was beyond him, a woman’s liberty possibly 
depending on the outcome; and he, Harry, was 
wandering around on the top floor when he knew 
perfectly well that his quarry had just gone down in 
the lift. 

He stopped walking, leaned against a wall, and tried 
to decide what to do. The silence pressed upon him: 
There was no bustling or talk or swift footsteps here; 
the purple-carpeted corridors were as hushed as 
though the Muffliato charm had been cast over the 
place. 

Her office must be up here, Harry thought. 

It seemed most unlikely that Umbridge would keep 
her jewelry in her office, but on the other hand it 
seemed foolish not to search it to make sure. He 
therefore set off along the corridor again, passing 
nobody but a frowning wizard who was murmuring 
instructions to a quill that floated in front of him, 
scribbling on a trail of parchment. 

Now paying attention to the names on the doors, 

Harry turned a corner. Halfway along the next 
corridor he emerged into a wide, open space where a 
dozen witches and wizards sat in rows at small desks 

Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




not unlike school desks, though much more highly 
polished and free from graffiti. Harry paused to watch 
them, for the effect was quite mesmerizing. They were 
all waving and twiddling their wands in unison, and 
squares of colored paper were flying in every direction 
like little pink kites. After a few seconds, Harry 
realized that there was a rhythm to the proceedings, 
that the papers all formed the same pattern; and after 
a few more seconds he realized that what he was 
watching was the creation of pamphlets — that the 
paper squares were pages, which, when assembled, 
folded, and magicked into place, fell into neat stacks 
beside each witch or wizard. 

Harry crept closer, although the workers were so 
intent on what they were doing that he doubted they 
would notice a carpet-muffled footstep, and he slid a 
completed pamphlet from the pile beside a young 
witch. He examined it beneath the Invisibility Cloak. 
Its pink cover was emblazoned with a golden title: 

MUDBLOODS 

and the Dangers They Pose to 
a Peaceful Pure-Blood Society 

Beneath the title was a picture of a red rose with a 
simpering face in the middle of its petals, being 
strangled by a green weed with fangs and a scowl. 
There was no author’s name upon the pamphlet, but 
again, the scars on the back of his right hand seemed 
to tingle as he examined it. Then the young witch 
beside him confirmed his suspicion as she said, still 
waving and twirling her wand, “Will the old hag be 
interrogating Mudbloods all day, does anyone know?” 



Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Careful,” said the wizard beside her, glancing around 
nervously; one of his pages slipped and fell to the 
floor. 

“What, has she got magic ears as well as an eye, 
now?” 

The witch glanced toward the shining mahogany door 
facing the space full of pamphlet-makers; Harry 
looked too, and rage reared in him like a snake. 

Where there might have been a peephole on a Muggle 
front door, a large, round eye with a bright blue iris 
had been set into the wood — an eye that was 
shockingly familiar to anybody who had known 
Alastor Moody. 

For a split second Harry forgot where he was and 
what he was doing there: He even forgot that he was 
invisible. He strode straight over to the door to 
examine the eye. It was not moving: It gazed blindly 
upward, frozen. The plaque beneath it read: 

DOLORES UMBRIDGE 

SENIOR UNDERSECRETARY TO THE MINISTER 

Below that, a slightly shinier new plaque read: 

HEAD OF THE MUGGLE-BORN 

REGISTRATION COMMISSION 

Harry looked back at the dozen pamphlet-makers: 
Though they were intent upon their work, he could 
hardly suppose that they would not notice if the door 
of an empty office opened in front of them. He 
therefore withdrew from an inner pocket an odd 
object with little waving legs and a rubber-bulbed 



Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




horn for a body. Crouching down beneath the Cloak, 
he placed the Decoy Detonator on the ground. 

It scuttled away at once through the legs of the 
witches and wizards in front of him. A few moments 
later, during which Harry waited with his hand upon 
the doorknob, there came a loud bang and a great 
deal of acrid black smoke billowed from a corner. The 
young witch in the front row shrieked: Pink pages 
flew everywhere as she and her fellows jumped up, 
looking around for the source of the commotion. 

Harry turned the doorknob, stepped into Umbridge’s 
office, and closed the door behind him. 

He felt he had stepped back in time. The room was 
exactly like Umbridge’s office at Hogwarts: Lace 
draperies, doilies, and dried flowers covered every 
available surface. The walls bore the same 
ornamental plates, each featuring a highly colored, 
beribboned kitten, gamboling and frisking with 
sickening cuteness. The desk was covered with a 
flouncy, flowered cloth. Behind Mad-Eye’s eye, a 
telescopic attachment enabled Umbridge to spy on 
the workers on the other side of the door. Harry took 
a look through it and saw that they were all still 
gathered around the Decoy Detonator. He wrenched 
the telescope out of the door, leaving a hole behind, 
pulled the magical eyeball out of it, and placed it in 
his pocket. Then he turned to face the room again, 
raised his wand, and murmured, “Accio Locket.” 

Nothing happened, but he had not expected it to; no 
doubt Umbridge knew all about protective charms 
and spells. He therefore hurried behind her desk and 
began pulling open the drawers. He saw quills and 
notebooks and Spellotape; enchanted paper clips that 
coiled snakelike from their drawer and had to be 
beaten back; a fussy little lace box full of spare hair 
bows and clips; but no sign of a locket. 

Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There was a filing cabinet behind the desk: Harry set 
to searching it. Like Filch ’s filing cabinets at 
Hogwarts, it was full of folders, each labeled with a 
name. It was not until Harry reached the bottommost 
drawer that he saw something to distract him from 
his search: Mr. Weasley’s file. 

He pulled it out and opened it. 

ARTHUR WEASLEY 

BLOOD STATUS: Pureblood, but with unacceptable 
pro-Muggle leanings. Known member of the Order of 
the Phoenix. 

FAMILY: Wife (pureblood), seven children, two 
youngest at Hogwarts. NB: Youngest son currently at 
home, seriously ill, Ministry inspectors have 
confirmed. 

SECURITY STATUS: TRACKED. All movements are 
being monitored. Strong likelihood Undesirable No. 1 
will contact (has stayed with Weasley family 
previously) 



“Undesirable Number One,” Harry muttered under his 
breath as he replaced Mr. Weasley’s folder and shut 
the drawer. He had an idea he knew who that was, 
and sure enough, as he straightened up and glanced 
around the office for fresh hiding places, he saw a 
poster of himself on the wall, with the words 
undesirable no. 1 emblazoned across his chest. A 
little pink note was stuck to it with a picture of a 
kitten in the corner. Harry moved across to read it 
and saw that Umbridge had written, “To be punished.” 



Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Angrier than ever, he proceeded to grope in the 
bottoms of the vases and baskets of dried flowers, but 
was not at all surprised that the locket was not there. 
He gave the office one last sweeping look, and his 
heart skipped a beat. Dumbledore was staring at him 
from a small rectangular mirror, propped up on a 
bookcase beside the desk. 

Harry crossed the room at a run and snatched it up, 
but realized the moment he touched it that it was not 
a mirror at all. Dumbledore was smiling wistfully out 
of the front cover of a glossy book. Harry had not 
immediately noticed the curly green writing across his 
hat — The Life and Lies ofAlbus Dumbledore — nor 
the slightly smaller writing across his chest: “by Rita 
Skeeter, bestselling author of Armando Dippet: Master 
or Moron?” 

Harry opened the book at random and saw a full-page 
photograph of two teenage boys, both laughing 
immoderately with their arms around each other’s 
shoulders. Dumbledore, now with elbow-length hair, 
had grown a tiny wispy beard that recalled the one on 
Krum’s chin that had so annoyed Ron. The boy who 
roared in silent amusement beside Dumbledore had a 
gleeful, wild look about him. His golden hair fell in 
curls to his shoulders. Harry wondered whether it 
was a young Doge, but before he could check the 
caption, the door of the office opened. 

If Thicknesse had not been looking over his shoulder 
as he entered, Harry would not have had time to pull 
the Invisibility Cloak over himself. As it was, he 
thought Thicknesse might have caught a glimpse of 
movement, because for a moment or two he remained 
quite still, staring curiously at the place where Harry 
had just vanished. Perhaps deciding that all he had 
seen was Dumbledore scratching his nose on the 
front of the book, for Harry had hastily replaced it 
Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




upon the shelf, Thicknesse finally walked to the desk 
and pointed his wand at the quill standing ready in 
the ink pot. It sprang out and began scribbling a note 
to Umbridge. Very slowly, hardly daring to breathe, 
Harry backed out of the office into the open area 
beyond. 

The pamphlet-makers were still clustered around the 
remains of the Decoy Detonator, which continued to 
hoot feebly as it smoked. Harry hurried off up the 
corridor as the young witch said, “I bet it sneaked up 
here from Experimental Charms, they’re so careless, 
remember that poisonous duck?” 

Speeding back toward the lifts, Harry reviewed his 
options. It had never been likely that the locket was 
here at the Ministry, and there was no hope of 
bewitching its whereabouts out of Umbridge while she 
was sitting in a crowded court. Their priority now had 
to be to leave the Ministry before they were exposed, 
and try again another day. The first thing to do was to 
find Ron, and then they could work out a way of 
extracting Hermione from the courtroom. 

The lift was empty when it arrived. Harry jumped in 
and pulled off the Invisibility Cloak as it started its 
descent. To his enormous relief, when it rattled to a 
halt at level two, a soaking-wet and wild-eyed Ron got 
in. 



“M-morning,” he stammered to Harry as the lift set off 
again. 

“Ron, it’s me, Harry!” 

“Harry! Blimey, I forgot what you looked like — why 
isn’t Hermione with you?” 



Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“She had to go down to the courtrooms with 
Umbridge, she couldn’t refuse, and — ” 

But before Harry could finish the lift had stopped 
again: The doors opened and Mr. Weasley walked 
inside, talking to an elderly witch whose blonde hair 
was teased so high it resembled an anthill. 

"... I quite understand what you’re saying, Wakanda, 
but I’m afraid I cannot be party to — ” 

Mr. Weasley broke off; he had noticed Harry. It was 
very strange to have Mr. Weasley glare at him with 
that much dislike. The lift doors closed and the four 
of them trundled downward once more. 

“Oh, hello, Reg,” said Mr. Weasley, looking around at 
the sound of steady dripping from Ron’s robes. “Isn’t 
your wife in for questioning today? Er — what’s 
happened to you? Why are you so wet?” 

“Yaxley’s office is raining,” said Ron. He addressed 
Mr. Weasley’s shoulder, and Harry felt sure he was 
scared that his father might recognize him if they 
looked directly into each other’s eyes. “I couldn’t stop 
it, so they’ve sent me to get Bernie — Pillsworth, I 
think they said — ” 

“Yes, a lot of offices have been raining lately,” said Mr. 
Weasley. “Did you try Meteolojinx Recanto? It worked 
for Bletchley.” 

“Meteolojinx Recanto?” whispered Ron. “No, I didn’t. 
Thanks, D — I mean, thanks, Arthur.” 

The lift doors opened; the old witch with the anthill 
hair left, and Ron darted past her out of sight. Harry 
made to follow him, but found his path blocked as 



Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Percy Weasley strode into the lift, his nose buried in 
some papers he was reading. 



Not until the doors had clanged shut again did Percy 
realize he was in a lift with his father. He glanced up, 
saw Mr. Weasley, turned radish red, and left the lift 
the moment the doors opened again. For the second 
time, Harry tried to get out, but this time found his 
way blocked by Mr. Weasley’s arm. 

“One moment, Runcorn.” 

The lift doors closed and as they clanked down 
another floor, Mr. Weasley said, “I hear you laid 
information about Dirk Cresswell.” 

Harry had the impression that Mr. Weasley’s anger 
was no less because of the brush with Percy. He 
decided his best chance was to act stupid. 

“Sorry?” he said. 

“Don’t pretend, Runcorn,” said Mr. Weasley fiercely. 
“You tracked down the wizard who faked his family 
tree, didn’t you?” 

“I — so what if I did?” said Harry. 

“So Dirk Cresswell is ten times the wizard you are,” 
said Mr. Weasley quietly, as the lift sank ever lower. 
“And if he survives Azkaban, you 11 have to answer to 
him, not to mention his wife, his sons, and his friends 



“Arthur,” Harry interrupted, “you know you’re being 
tracked, don’t you?” 

“Is that a threat, Runcorn?” said Mr. Weasley loudly. 



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry, “it’s a fact! They’re watching your 
every move — ” 

The lift doors opened. They had reached the Atrium. 
Mr. Weasley gave Harry a scathing look and swept 
from the lift. Harry stood there, shaken. He wished he 
was impersonating somebody other than Runcorn. ... 
The lift doors clanged shut. 

Harry pulled out the Invisibility Cloak and put it back 
on. He would try to extricate Hermione on his own 
while Ron was dealing with the raining office. When 
the doors opened, he stepped out into a torch-lit 
stone passageway quite different from the wood- 
paneled and carpeted corridors above. As the lift 
rattled away again, Harry shivered slightly, looking 
toward the distant black door that marked the 
entrance to the Department of Mysteries. 

He set off, his destination not the black door, but the 
doorway he remembered on the left-hand side, which 
opened onto the flight of stairs down to the court 
chambers. His mind grappled with possibilities as he 
crept down them: He still had a couple of Decoy 
Detonators, but perhaps it would be better to simply 
knock on the courtroom door, enter as Runcorn, and 
ask for a quick word with Mafalda? Of course, he did 
not know whether Runcorn was sufficiently important 
to get away with this, and even if he managed it, 
Hermione ’s non-reappearance might trigger a search 
before they were clear of the Ministry. . . . 

Lost in thought, he did not immediately register the 
unnatural chill that was creeping over him, as if he 
were descending into fog. It was becoming colder and 
colder with every step he took: a cold that reached 
right down into his throat and tore at his lungs. And 
then he felt that stealing sense of despair, of 
hopelessness, filling him, expanding inside him. ... 
Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Dementors, he thought. 



And as he reached the foot of the stairs and turned to 
his right he saw a dreadful scene. The dark passage 
outside the courtrooms was packed with tall, black- 
hooded figures, their faces completely hidden, their 
ragged breathing the only sound in the place. The 
petrified Muggle-borns brought in for questioning sat 
huddled and shivering on hard wooden benches. Most 
of them were hiding their faces in their hands, 
perhaps in an instinctive attempt to shield themselves 
from the dementors’ greedy mouths. Some were 
accompanied by families, others sat alone. The 
dementors were gliding up and down in front of them, 
and the cold, and the hopelessness, and the despair 
of the place laid themselves upon Harry like a curse. 



Fight it, he told himself, but he knew that he could 
not conjure a Patronus here without revealing himself 
instantly. So he moved forward as silently as he 
could, and with every step he took numbness seemed 
to steal over his brain, but he forced himself to think 
of Hermione and of Ron, who needed him. 

Moving through the towering black figures was 
terrifying: The eyeless faces hidden beneath their 
hoods turned as he passed, and he felt sure that they 
sensed him, sensed, perhaps, a human presence that 
still had some hope, some resilience. ... 

And then, abruptly and shockingly amid the frozen 
silence, one of the dungeon doors on the left of the 
corridor was flung open and screams echoed out of it. 

“No, no, I’m half-blood, I’m half-blood, I tell you! My 
father was a wizard, he was, look him up, Arkie 
Alderton, he’s a well-known broomstick designer, look 

Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




him up, I tell you — get your hands off me, get your 
hands off—” 



“This is your final warning,” said Umbridge’s soft 
voice, magically magnified so that it sounded clearly 
over the man’s desperate screams. “If you struggle, 
you will be subjected to the Dementor’s Kiss.” 

The man’s screams subsided, but dry sobs echoed 
through the corridor. 

“Take him away,” said Umbridge. 

Two dementors appeared in the doorway of the 
courtroom, their rotting, scabbed hands clutching the 
upper arms of a wizard who appeared to be fainting. 
They glided away down the corridor with him, and the 
darkness they trailed behind them swallowed him 
from sight. 

“Next — Mary Cattermole,” called Umbridge. 

A small woman stood up; she was trembling from 
head to foot. Her dark hair was smoothed back into a 
bun and she wore long, plain robes. Her face was 
completely bloodless. As she passed the dementors, 
Harry saw her shudder. 

He did it instinctively, without any sort of plan, 
because he hated the sight of her walking alone into 
the dungeon: As the door began to swing closed, he 
slipped into the courtroom behind her. 

It was not the same room in which he had once been 
interrogated for improper use of magic. This one was 
much smaller, though the ceiling was quite as high; it 
gave the claustrophobic sense of being stuck at the 
bottom of a deep well. 

Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There were more dementors in here, casting their 
freezing aura over the place; they stood like faceless 
sentinels in the corners farthest from the high, raised 
platform. Here, behind a balustrade, sat Umbridge, 
with Yaxley on one side of her, and Hermione, quite 
as white-faced as Mrs. Cattermole, on the other. At 
the foot of the platform, a bright-silver, long-haired 
cat prowled up and down, up and down, and Harry 
realized that it was there to protect the prosecutors 
from the despair that emanated from the dementors: 
That was for the accused to feel, not the accusers. 

“Sit down,” said Umbridge in her soft, silky voice. 

Mrs. Cattermole stumbled to the single seat in the 
middle of the floor beneath the raised platform. The 
moment she had sat down, chains clinked out of the 
arms of the chair and bound her there. 

“You are Mary Elizabeth Cattermole?” asked 
Umbridge. 

Mrs. Cattermole gave a single, shaky nod. 

“Married to Reginald Cattermole of the Magical 
Maintenance Department?” 

Mrs. Cattermole burst into tears. 

“I don’t know where he is, he was supposed to meet 
