Harry pulled the Extendable Ear out of his own, his 
heart hammering very fast and heat rushing up his 
face. He looked around at the others. They were all 
staring at him, the strings still trailing from their 
ears, looking suddenly fearful. 



Page | 627Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






CHRISTMAS ON THE CLOSED WARD 

Was this why Dumbledore would no longer meet 
Harry’s eyes? Did he expect to see Voldemort staring 
out of them, afraid, perhaps, that their vivid green 
might turn suddenly to scarlet, with catlike slits for 
pupils? Harry remembered how the snakelike face of 
Voldemort had once forced itself out of the back of 
Professor Quirrell’s head, and he ran his hand over 
the back of his own, wondering what it would feel like 
if Voldemort burst out of his skull... 

He felt dirty, contaminated, as though he were 
carrying some deadly germ, unworthy to sit on the 
underground train back from the hospital with 
innocent, clean people whose minds and bodies were 
free of the taint of Voldemort... He had not merely 
seen the snake, he had been the snake, he knew it 
now. . . 

And then a truly terrible thought occurred to him, a 
memory bobbing to the surface of his mind, one that 
made his insides writhe and squirm like serpents... 



Page | 628Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“What’s he after apart from followers?” 

“Stuff he can only get by stealth ... like a weapon. 
Something he didn’t have last time.” 

I’m the weapon, Harry thought, and it was as though 
poison were pumping through his veins, chilling him, 
bringing him out in a sweat as he swayed with the 
train through the dark tunnel. I’m the one Voldemort’s 
trying to use, that’s why they’ve got guards around me 
everywhere I go, it’s not for my protection, it’s for other 
people’s, only it’s not working, they can’t have 
someone on me all the time at Hogwarts... I did attack 
Mr. Weasley last night, it was me, Voldemort made me 
do it and he could be inside me, listening to my 
thoughts right now... 

“Are you all right, Harry, dear?” whispered Mrs. 
Weasley, leaning across Ginny to speak to him as the 
train rattled along through its dark tunnel. “You don’t 
look very well. Are you feeling sick?” 

They were all watching him. He shook his head 
violently and stared up at an advertisement for home 
insurance. 

“Harry, dear, are you sure you’re all right?” said Mrs. 
Weasley in a worried voice, as they walked around the 
unkempt patch of grass in the middle of Grimmauld 
Place. “You look ever so pale... Are you sure you slept 
this morning? You go upstairs to bed right now, and 
you can have a couple of hours’ sleep before dinner, 
all right?” 

He nodded; here was a ready-made excuse not to talk 
to any of the others, which was precisely what he 
wanted, so when she opened the front door he 
proceeded straight past the troll’s leg umbrella stand 



Page | 629Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and up the stairs and hurried into his and Ron’s 
bedroom. 

Here he began to pace up and down, past the two 
beds and Phineas Nigellus’s empty portrait, his brain 
teeming and seething with questions and ever more 
dreadful ideas... 

How had he become a snake? Perhaps he was an 
Animagus... No, he couldn’t be, he would know... 
perhaps Voldemort was an Animagus... Yes, thought 
Harry, that would fit, he would turn into a snake of 
course ... and when he’s possessing me, then we both 
transform... That still doesn’t explain how come I got to 
London and back to my bed in the space of about five 
minutes, though... But then Voldemort’ s about the most 
powerful wizard in the world, apart from Dumbledore, 
it’s probably no problem at all to him to transport 
people like that... 

And then, with a terrible stab of panic he thought, but 
this is insane — if Voldemort’s possessing me, I’m 
giving him a clear view into the headquarters of the 
Order of the Phoenix right now! He’ll know who’s in the 
Order and where Sirius is ... and I’ve heard loads of 
stuff I shouldn’t have, everything Sirius told me the 
first night I was here... 

There was only one thing for it: He would have to 
leave Grimmauld Place straightaway. He would spend 
Christmas at Hogwarts without the others, which 
would keep them safe over the holidays at least... But 
no, that wouldn’t do, there were still plenty of people 
at Hogwarts to maim and injure, what if it was 
Seamus, Dean, or Neville next time? He stopped his 
pacing and stood staring at Phineas Nigellus’s empty 
frame. A leaden sensation was settling in the pit of his 
stomach. He had no alternative: He was going to have 



Page | 630Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to return to Privet Drive, cut himself off from other 
wizards entirely... 



Well, if he had to do it, he thought, there was no point 
hanging around. Trying with all his might not to think 
how the Dursleys were going to react when they found 
him on their doorstep six months earlier than they 
had expected, he strode over to his trunk, slammed 
the lid shut and locked it, then glanced around 
automatically for Hedwig before remembering that she 
was still at Hogwarts — well, her cage would be one 
less thing to carry — he seized one end of his trunk 
and had dragged it halfway toward the door when a 
sneaky voice said, “Running away, are we?” 

He looked around. Phineas Nigellus had appeared 
upon the canvas of his portrait and was leaning 
against the frame, watching Harry with an amused 
expression on his face. 

“Not running away, no,” said Harry shortly, dragging 
his trunk a few more feet across the room. 

“I thought,” said Phineas Nigellus, stroking his 
pointed beard, “that to belong in Gryffindor House 
you were supposed to be brave? It looks to me as 
though you would have been better off in my own 
house. We Slytherins are brave, yes, but not stupid. 
For instance, given the choice, we will always choose 
to save our own necks.” 

“It’s not my own neck I’m saving,” said Harry tersely, 
tugging the trunk over a patch of particularly uneven, 
moth-eaten carpet right in front of the door. 

“Oh I see,” said Phineas Nigellus, still stroking his 
beard. “This is no cowardly flight — you are being 
noble.” 

Page | 631Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry ignored him. His hand was on the doorknob 
when Phineas Nigellus said lazily, “I have a message 
for you from Albus Dumbledore.” 

Harry spun around. 

“What is it?” 

“Stay where you are.” 

“I haven’t moved!” said Harry, his hand still upon the 
doorknob. “So what’s the message?” 

“I have just given it to you, dolt,” said Phineas 
Nigellus smoothly. “Dumbledore says, ‘Stay where 
you are. ’ ” 

“Why?” said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his 
trunk. “Why does he want me to stay? What else did 
he say?” 

“Nothing whatsoever,” said Phineas Nigellus, raising a 
thin black eyebrow as though he found Harry 
impertinent. 

Harry’s temper rose to the surface like a snake 
rearing from long grass. He was exhausted, he was 
confused beyond measure, he had experienced terror, 
relief, and then terror again in the last twelve hours, 
and still Dumbledore did not want to talk to him! 

“So that’s it, is it?” he said loudly. “Stay there? That’s 
all anyone could tell me after I got attacked by those 
dementors too! Just stay put while the grown-ups 
sort it out, Harry! We won’t bother telling you 
anything, though, because your tiny little brain might 
not be able to cope with it!” 



Page | 632Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You know,” said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly 
than Harry, “this is precisely why I loathed being a 
teacher! Young people are so infernally convinced that 
they are absolutely right about everything. Has it not 
occurred to you, my poor puffed-up popinjay, that 
there might be an excellent reason why the 
headmaster of Hogwarts is not confiding every tiny 
detail of his plans to you? Have you never paused, 
while feeling hard-done-by, to note that following 
Dumbledore ’s orders has never yet led you into harm? 
No. No, like all young people, you are quite sure that 
you alone feel and think, you alone recognize danger, 
you alone are the only one clever enough to realize 
what the Dark Lord may be planning...” 

“He is planning something to do with me, then?” said 
Harry swiftly. 

“Did I say that?” said Phineas Nigellus, idly examining 
his silk gloves. “Now, if you will excuse me, I have 
better things to do than to listen to adolescent 
agonizing... Good day to you...” 

And he strolled into his frame and out of sight. 

“Fine, go then!” Harry bellowed at the empty frame. 
“And tell Dumbledore thanks for nothing!” 

The empty canvas remained silent. Fuming, Harry 
dragged his trunk back to the foot of his bed, then 
threw himself facedown upon the moth-eaten covers, 
his eyes shut, his body heavy and aching. . . 

He felt he had journeyed miles and miles... It seemed 
impossible that less than twenty-four hours ago Cho 
Chang had been approaching him under the 
mistletoe... He was so tired... He was scared to sleep 
... yet he did not know how long he could fight it... 
Dumbledore had told him to stay... That must mean 
Page | 633Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he was allowed to sleep... But he was scared... What if 
it happened again ... ? 

He was sinking into shadows... 

It was as though a film in his head had been waiting 
to start. He was walking down a deserted corridor 
toward a plain black door, past rough stone walls, 
torches, and an open doorway onto a flight of stone 
steps leading downstairs on the left... 

He reached the black door but could not open it... He 
stood gazing at it, desperate for entry. . . Something he 
wanted with all his heart lay beyond... A prize beyond 
his dreams... If only his scar would stop prickling ... 
then he would be able to think more clearly. . . 

“Harry,” said Ron’s voice, from far, far away, “Mum 
says dinner’s ready, but she’ll save you something if 
you want to stay in bed...” 

Harry opened his eyes, but Ron had already left the 
room. 

He doesn’t want to be on his own with me, Harry 
thought. Not after what he heard Moody say ... 

He supposed none of them would want him there 
anymore now that they knew what was inside him... 

He would not go down to dinner; he would not inflict 
his company upon them. He turned over onto his 
other side and after a while dropped back off to sleep, 
waking much later in the early hours of the morning, 
with his insides aching with hunger, and Ron snoring 
in the next bed. Squinting around the room he saw 
the dark outline of Phineas Nigellus standing again in 
his portrait and it occurred to Harry that Dumbledore 



Page | 634Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had probably set Phineas Nigellus to watch over him, 
in case he attacked somebody else. 

The feeling of being unclean intensified. He half 
wished he had not obeyed Dumbledore and stayed... 

If this was how life was going to be in Grimmauld 
Place from now on, maybe he would be better off in 
Privet Drive after all. 

Everybody else spent the following morning putting 
up Christmas decorations. Harry could not remember 
Sirius ever being in such a good mood; he was 
actually singing carols, apparently delighted that he 
was to have company over Christmas. Harry could 
hear his voice echoing up through the floor in the cold 
and empty drawing room where he was sitting alone, 
watching the sky outside the windows growing whiter, 
threatening snow, all the time feeling a savage 
pleasure that he was giving the others the 
opportunity to keep talking about him, as they were 
bound to be doing. When he heard Mrs. Weasley 
calling his name softly up the stairs around 
lunchtime he retreated farther upstairs and ignored 
her. 

It was around six o’clock in the evening that the 
doorbell rang and Mrs. Black started screaming 
again. Assuming that Mundungus or some other 
Order member had come to call, Harry merely settled 
himself more comfortably against the wall of 
Buckbeak the hippogriff’s room where he was hiding, 
trying to ignore how hungry he felt as he fed 
Buckbeak dead rats. It came as a slight shock when 
somebody hammered hard on the door a few minutes 
later. 

“I know you’re in there,” said Hermione’s voice. “Will 
you please come out? I want to talk to you.” 



Page | 635Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What are you doing here?” Harry asked her, pulling 
open the door, as Buckbeak resumed his scratching 
at the straw-strewn floor for any fragments of rat he 
might have dropped. “I thought you were skiing with 
your mum and dad.” 

“Well, to tell the truth, skiing’s not really my thing,” 
said Hermione. “So I’ve come for Christmas.” There 
was snow in her hair and her face was pink with cold. 
“But don’t tell Ron that, I told him it’s really good 
because he kept laughing so much. Anyway, Mum 
and Dad are a bit disappointed, but I’ve told them 
that everyone who’s serious about the exams is 
staying at Hogwarts to study. They want me to do 
well, they’ll understand. Anyway,” she said briskly, 
“let’s go to your bedroom, Ron’s mum’s lit a fire in 
there and she’s sent up sandwiches.” 

Harry followed her back to the second floor. When he 
entered the bedroom he was rather surprised to see 
both Ron and Ginny waiting for them, sitting on Ron’s 
bed. 

“I came on the Knight Bus,” said Hermione airily, 
pulling off her jacket before Harry had time to speak. 
“Dumbledore told me what had happened first thing 
this morning, but I had to wait for term to end 
officially before setting off. Umbridge is already livid 
that you lot disappeared right under her nose, even 
though Dumbledore told her Mr. Weasley was in St. 
Mungo’s, and he’d given you all permission to visit. So 



She sat down next to Ginny, and the two girls and 
Ron looked up at Harry. 

“How’re you feeling?” asked Hermione. 

“Fine,” said Harry stiffly. 

Page | 636Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, don’t lie, Harry,” she said impatiently. “Ron and 
Ginny say you’ve been hiding from everyone since you 
got back from St. Mungo’s.” 

“They do, do they?” said Harry, glaring at Ron and 
Ginny. Ron looked down at his feet but Ginny seemed 
quite unabashed. 

“Well, you have!” she said. “And you won’t look at any 
of us!” 

“It’s you lot who won’t look at me!” said Harry angrily. 

“Maybe you’re taking it in turns to look and keep 
missing each other,” suggested Hermione, the corners 
of her mouth twitching. 

“Very funny,” snapped Harry, turning away. 

“Oh, stop feeling all misunderstood,” said Hermione 
sharply. “Look, the others have told me what you 
overheard last night on the Extendable Ears — ” 

“Yeah?” growled Harry, his hands deep in his pockets 
as he watched the snow now falling thickly outside. 
“All been talking about me, have you? Well, I’m 
getting used to it...” 

“We wanted to talk to you, Harry,” said Ginny, “but as 
you’ve been hiding ever since we got back — ” 

“I didn’t want anyone to talk to me,” said Harry, who 
was feeling more and more nettled. 

“Well, that was a bit stupid of you,” said Ginny 
angrily, “seeing as you don’t know anyone but me 
who’s been possessed by You-Know-Who, and I can 
tell you how it feels.” 



Page | 637Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry remained quite still as the impact of these 
words hit him. Then he turned on the spot to face 
her. 



“I forgot,” he said. 

“Lucky you,” said Ginny coolly. 

“I’m sorry,” Harry said, and he meant it. “So ... so do 
you think I’m being possessed, then?” 

“Well, can you remember everything you’ve been 
doing?” Ginny asked. “Are there big blank periods 
where you don’t know what you’ve been up to?” 

Harry racked his brains. 

“No,” he said. 

“Then You-Know-Who hasn’t ever possessed you,” 
said Ginny simply. “When he did it to me, I couldn’t 
remember what I’d been doing for hours at a time. I’d 
find myself somewhere and not know how I got there.” 

Harry hardly dared believe her, yet his heart was 
lightening almost in spite of himself. 

“That dream I had about your dad and the snake, 
though — ” 

“Harry, you’ve had these dreams before,” Hermione 
said. “You had flashes of what Voldemort was up to 
last year.” 

“This was different,” said Harry, shaking his head. “I 
was inside that snake. It was like I was the snake... 
What if Voldemort somehow transported me to 
London — ?” 

Page | 638Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“One day,” said Hermione, sounding thoroughly 
exasperated, “you’ll read Hogwarts, A History, and 
perhaps that will remind you that you can’t Apparate 
or Disapparate inside Hogwarts. Even Voldemort 
couldn’t just make you fly out of your dormitory, 
Harry.” 

“You didn’t leave your bed, mate,” said Ron. “I saw 
you thrashing around in your sleep about a minute 
before we could wake you up...” 

Harry started pacing up and down the room again, 
thinking. What they were all saying was not only 
comforting, it made sense... Without really thinking 
he took a sandwich from the plate on the bed and 
crammed it hungrily into his mouth... 

I’m not the weapon after all, thought Harry. His heart 
swelled with happiness and relief, and he felt like 
joining in as they heard Sirius tramping past their 
door toward Buckbeak’s room, singing “God Rest Ye 
Merry, Hippogriffs” at the top of his voice. 

How could he have dreamed of returning to Privet 
Drive for Christmas? Sirius’s delight at having the 
house full again, and especially at having Harry back, 
was infectious. He was no longer their sullen host of 
the summer; now he seemed determined that 
everyone should enjoy themselves as much, if not 
more, than they would have done at Hogwarts, and he 
worked tirelessly in the run-up to Christmas Day, 
cleaning and decorating with their help, so that by 
the time they all went to bed on Christmas Eve the 
house was barely recognizable. The tarnished 
chandeliers were no longer hung with cobwebs but 
with garlands of holly and gold and silver streamers; 
magical snow glittered in heaps over the threadbare 
carpets; a great Christmas tree, obtained by 
Mundungus and decorated with live fairies, blocked 
Page | 639Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius’s family tree from view; and even the stuffed elf 
heads on the hall wall wore Father Christmas hats 
and beards. 

Harry awoke on Christmas morning to find a stack of 
presents at the foot of his bed and Ron already 
halfway through opening his own, rather larger, pile. 

“Good haul this year,” he informed Harry through a 
cloud of paper. “Thanks for the Broom Compass, it’s 
excellent, beats Hermione’s — she’s got me a 
homework planner — ” 

Harry sorted through his presents and found one with 
Hermione’s handwriting on it. She had given him too 
a book that resembled a diary, except that it said 
things like “Do it today or later you’ll pay\” every time 
he opened a page. 

Sirius and Lupin had given Harry a set of excellent 
books entitled Practical Defensive Magic and Its Use 
Against the Dark Arts, which had superb, moving 
color illustrations of all the counterjinxes and hexes it 
described. Harry flicked through the first volume 
eagerly; he could see it was going to be highly useful 
in his plans for the D.A. Hagrid had sent a furry 
brown wallet that had fangs, which were presumably 
supposed to be an antitheft device, but unfortunately 
prevented Harry putting any money in without getting 
his fingers ripped off. Tonks’s present was a small, 
working model of a Firebolt, which Harry watched fly 
around the room, wishing he still had his full-size 
version; Ron had given him an enormous box of 
Every-Flavor Beans; Mr. and Mrs. Weasley the usual 
hand-knitted jumper and some mince pies; and 
Dobby, a truly dreadful painting that Harry suspected 
had been done by the elf himself. He had just turned 
it upside down to see whether it looked better that 



Page | 640Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




way when, with a loud crack, Fred and George 
Apparated at the foot of his bed. 



“Merry Christmas,” said George. “Don’t go downstairs 
for a bit.” 

“Why not?” said Ron. 

“Mum’s crying again,” said Fred heavily. “Percy sent 
back his Christmas jumper.” 

“Without a note,” added George. “Hasn’t asked how 
Dad is or visited him or anything...” 

“We tried to comfort her,” said Fred, moving around 
the bed to look at Harry’s portrait. “Told her Percy’s 
nothing more than a humongous pile of rat droppings 



“ — didn’t work,” said George, helping himself to a 
Chocolate Frog. “So Lupin took over. Best let him 
cheer her up before we go down for breakfast, I 
reckon.” 

“What’s that supposed to be anyway?” asked Fred, 
squinting at Dobby’s painting. “Looks like a gibbon 
with two black eyes.” 

“It’s Harry!” said George, pointing at the back of the 
picture. “Says so on the back!” 

“Good likeness,” said Fred, grinning. Harry threw his 
new homework diary at him; it hit the wall opposite 
and fell to the floor where it said happily, “If you’ve 
dotted the i’s and crossed the t’s then you may do 
whatever you pleasel” 

They got up and dressed; they could hear various 
inhabitants of the house calling “Merry Christmas” to 

Page | 641Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




each other. On their way downstairs they met 
Hermione. “Thanks for the book, Harry!” she said 
happily. “I’ve been wanting that New Theory of 
Numerology for ages! And that perfume is really 
unusual, Ron.” 

“No problem,” said Ron. “Who’s that for anyway?” he 
added, nodding at the neatly wrapped present she 
was carrying. 

“Kreacher,” said Hermione brightly. 

“It had better not be clothes!” said Ron warningly. 
“You know what Sirius said, Kreacher knows too 
much, we can’t set him free!” 

“It isn’t clothes,” said Hermione, “although if I had my 
way I’d certainly give him something to wear other 
than that filthy old rag. No, it’s a patchwork quilt, I 
thought it would brighten up his bedroom.” 

“What bedroom?” said Harry, dropping his voice to a 
whisper as they were passing the portrait of Sirius’s 
mother. 

“Well, Sirius says it’s not so much a bedroom, more a 
kind of — den,” said Hermione. “Apparently he sleeps 
under the boiler in that cupboard off the kitchen.” 

Mrs. Weasley was the only person in the basement 
when they arrived there. She was standing at the 
stove and sounded as though she had a bad head 
cold when she wished them Merry Christmas, and 
they all averted their eyes. 

“So, this is Kreacher’s bedroom?” said Ron, strolling 
over to a dingy door in the corner opposite the pantry 
which Harry had never seen open. 



Page | 642Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Hermione, now sounding a little nervous. 
“Er ... I think we’d better knock ...” 

Ron rapped the door with his knuckles but there was 
no reply. 

“He must be sneaking around upstairs,” he said, and 
without further ado pulled open the door. “Urgh.” 

Harry peered inside. Most of the cupboard was taken 
up with a very large and old-fashioned boiler, but in 
the foot’s space underneath the pipes Kreacher had 
made himself something that looked like a nest. A 
jumble of assorted rags and smelly old blankets were 
piled on the floor and the small dent in the middle of 
it showed where Kreacher curled up to sleep every 
night. Here and there among the material were stale 
bread crusts and moldy old bits of cheese. In a far 
corner glinted small objects and coins that Harry 
guessed Kreacher had saved, magpielike, from 
Sirius’s purge of the house, and he had also managed 
to retrieve the silver-framed family photographs that 
Sirius had thrown away over the summer. Their glass 
might be shattered, but still the little black-and-white 
people inside them peered haughtily up at him, 
including — he felt a little jolt in his stomach — the 
dark, heavy-lidded woman whose trial he had 
witnessed in Dumbledore’s Pensieve: Bellatrix 
Lestrange. By the looks of it, hers was Kreacher ’s 
favorite photograph; he had placed it to the fore of all 
the others and had mended the glass clumsily with 
Spellotape. 

“I think I’ll just leave his present here,” said 
Hermione, laying the package neatly in the middle of 
the depression in the rags and blankets and closing 
the door quietly. “He’ll find it later, that’ll be fine...” 



Page | 643Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Come to think of it,” said Sirius, emerging from the 
pantry carrying a large turkey as they closed the 
cupboard door, “has anyone actually seen Kreacher 
lately?” 

“I haven’t seen him since the night we came back 
here,” said Harry. “You were ordering him out of the 
kitchen.” 

“Yeah ...” said Sirius, frowning. “You know, I think 
that’s the last time I saw him, too... He must be 
hiding upstairs somewhere...” 

“He couldn’t have left, could he?” said Harry. “I mean, 
when you said ‘out,’ maybe he thought you meant, get 
out of the house?” 

“No, no, house-elves can’t leave unless they’re given 
clothes, they’re tied to their family’s house,” said 
Sirius. 

“They can leave the house if they really want to,” 

Harry contradicted him. “Dobby did, he left the 
Malfoys’ to give me warnings two years ago. He had to 
punish himself afterward, but he still managed it.” 

Sirius looked slightly disconcerted for a moment, then 
said, “I’ll look for him later, I expect I’ll find him 
upstairs crying his eyes out over my mother’s old 
bloomers or something... Of course, he might have 
crawled into the airing cupboard and died... But I 
mustn’t get my hopes up...” 

Fred, George, and Ron laughed; Hermione, however, 
looked reproachful. 

Once they had had their Christmas lunch, the 
Weasleys and Harry and Hermione were planning to 
pay Mr. Weasley another visit, escorted by Mad-Eye 

Page | 644Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and Lupin. Mundungus turned up in time for 
Christmas pudding and trifle, having managed to 
“borrow” a car for the occasion, as the Underground 
did not run on Christmas Day. The car, which Harry 
doubted very much had been taken with the 
knowledge or consent of its owner, had had a similar 
Enlarging Spell put upon it as the Weasleys’ old Ford 
Anglia; although normally proportioned outside, ten 
people with Mundungus driving were able to fit into it 
quite comfortably. Mrs. Weasley hesitated at the point 
of getting inside; Harry knew that her disapproval of 
Mundungus was battling with her dislike of traveling 
without magic; finally the cold outside and her 
children’s pleading triumphed, and she settled herself 
into the backseat between Fred and Bill with good 
grace. 

The journey to St. Mungo’s was quite quick, as there 
was very little traffic on the roads. A small trickle of 
witches and wizards were creeping furtively up the 
otherwise deserted street to visit the hospital. Harry 
and the others got out of the car, and Mundungus 
drove off around the corner to wait for them; they 
strolled casually toward the window where the 
dummy in green nylon stood, then, one by one, 
stepped through the glass. 

The reception area looked pleasantly festive: The 
crystal orbs that illuminated St. Mungo’s had been 
turned to red and gold so that they became gigantic, 
glowing Christmas baubles; holly hung around every 
doorway, and shining white Christmas trees covered 
in magical snow and icicles glittered in every corner, 
each topped with a gleaming gold star. It was less 
crowded than the last time they had been there, 
although halfway across the room Harry found 
himself shunted aside by a witch with a walnut 
jammed up her left nostril. 



Page | 645Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Family argument, eh?” smirked the blonde witch 
behind the desk. “You’re the third I’ve seen today ... 
Spell Damage, fourth floor ...” 

They found Mr. Weasley propped up in bed with the 
remains of his turkey dinner on a tray in his lap and 
a rather sheepish expression on his face. 

“Everything all right, Arthur?” asked Mrs. Weasley, 
after they had all greeted Mr. Weasley and handed 
over their presents. 

“Fine, fine,” said Mr. Weasley, a little too heartily. 

“You — er — haven’t seen Healer Smethwyck, have 
you?” 

“No,” said Mrs. Weasley suspiciously, “why?” 

“Nothing, nothing,” said Mr. Weasley airily, starting to 
unwrap his pile of gifts. “Well, everyone had a good 
day? What did you all get for Christmas? Oh, Harry — 
this is absolutely wonderful — ” 

For he had just opened Harry’s gift of fuse-wire and 
screwdrivers. Mrs. Weasley did not seem entirely 
satisfied with Mr. Weasley’s answer. As her husband 
leaned over to shake Harry’s hand, she peered at the 
bandaging under his nightshirt. 

“Arthur,” she said, with a snap in her voice like a 
mousetrap, “you’ve had your bandages changed. Why 
have you had your bandages changed a day early, 
Arthur? They told me they wouldn’t need doing until 
tomorrow.” 

“What?” said Mr. Weasley, looking rather frightened 
and pulling the bed covers higher up his chest. “No, 
no — it’s nothing — it’s — I — ” 



Page | 646Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He seemed to deflate under Mrs. Weasley’s piercing 
gaze. 

“Well — now don’t get upset, Molly, but Augustus Pye 
had an idea... He’s the Trainee Healer, you know, 
lovely young chap and very interested in . . . um . . . 
complementary medicine... I mean, some of these old 
Muggle remedies ... well, they’re called stitches, Molly, 
and they work very well on — on Muggle wounds — ” 

Mrs. Weasley let out an ominous noise somewhere 
between a shriek and a snarl. Lupin strolled away 
from the bed and over to the werewolf, who had no 
visitors and was looking rather wistfully at the crowd 
around Mr. Weasley; Bill muttered something about 
getting himself a cup of tea and Fred and George leapt 
up to accompany him, grinning. 

“Do you mean to tell me,” said Mrs. Weasley, her 
voice growing louder with every word and apparently 
unaware that her fellow visitors were scurrying for 
cover, “that you have been messing about with 
Muggle remedies?” 

“Not messing about, Molly, dear,” said Mr. Weasley 
imploringly. “It was just — just something Pye and I 
thought we’d try — only, most unfortunately — well, 
with these particular kinds of wounds — it doesn’t 
seem to work as well as we’d hoped — ” 

“Meaning?” 

“Well ... well, I don’t know whether you know what — 
what stitches are?” 

“It sounds as though you’ve been trying to sew your 
skin back together,” said Mrs. Weasley with a snort of 
mirthless laughter, “but even you, Arthur, wouldn’t 
be that stupid — ” 

Page | 647Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I fancy a cup of tea too,” said Harry, jumping to his 
feet. 



Hermione, Ron, and Ginny almost sprinted to the 
door with him. As it swung closed behind them, they 
heard Mrs. Weasley shriek, “WHAT DO YOU MEAN, 
THAT’S THE GENERAL IDEA?” 

“Typical Dad,” said Ginny, shaking her head as they 
set off up the corridor. “Stitches ... I ask you ...” 

“Well, you know, they do work well on non-magical 
wounds,” said Hermione fairly. “I suppose something 
in that snake’s venom dissolves them or something... 
I wonder where the tearoom is?” 

“Fifth floor,” said Harry, remembering the sign over 
the Welcome Witch’s desk. 

They walked along the corridor through a set of 
double doors and found a rickety staircase lined with 
more portraits of brutal-looking Healers. As they 
climbed it, the various Healers called out to them, 
diagnosing odd complaints and suggesting horrible 
remedies. Ron was seriously affronted when a 
medieval wizard called out that he clearly had a bad 
case of spattergroit. 

“And what’s that supposed to be?” he asked angrily, 
as the Healer pursued him through six more 
portraits, shoving the occupants out of the way. 

“ Tis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young 
master, that will leave you pockmarked and more 
gruesome even than you are now — ” 

“Watch who you’re calling gruesome!” said Ron, his 
ears turning red. 



Page | 648Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“The only remedy is to take the liver of a toad, bind it 
tight about your throat, stand naked by the full moon 
in a barrel of eels’ eyes — ” 

“I have not got spattergroit!” 

“But the unsightly blemishes upon your visage, young 
master — ” 

“They’re freckles!” said Ron furiously. “Now get back 
in your own picture and leave me alone!” 

He rounded on the others, who were all keeping 
determinedly straight faces. 

“What floor’s this?” 

“I think it’s the fifth,” said Hermione. 

“Nah, it’s the fourth,” said Harry, “one more — ” 

But as he stepped onto the landing he came to an 
abrupt halt, staring at the small window set into the 
double doors that marked the start of a corridor 
signposted SPELL DAMAGE. A man was peering out 
at them all with his nose pressed against the glass. 

He had wavy blond hair, bright blue eyes, and a 
broad vacant smile that revealed dazzlingly white 
teeth. 

“Blimey!” said Ron, also staring at the man. 

“Oh my goodness,” said Hermione suddenly, sounding 
breathless. “Professor Lockhart!” 

