
The Great Hall rang with applause as the Sorting Hat 
finished. 



“That’s not the song it sang when it Sorted us,” said 
Harry, clapping along with everyone else. 

“Sings a different one every year,” said Ron. “It’s got 
to be a pretty boring life, hasn’t it, being a hat? I 
suppose it spends all year making up the next one.” 

Professor McGonagall was now unrolling a large scroll 
of parchment. 

“When I call out your name, you will put on the hat 
and sit on the stool,” she told the first years. “When 
the hat announces your House, you will go and sit at 
the appropriate table. 

“Ackerley, Stewart!” 

A boy walked forward, visibly trembling from head to 
foot, picked up the Sorting Hat, put it on, and sat 
down on the stool. 

“RAVENCLAW!” shouted the hat. 

Stewart Ackerley took off the hat and hurried into a 
seat at the Ravenclaw table, where everyone was 
applauding him. Harry caught a glimpse of Cho, the 
Ravenclaw Seeker, cheering Stewart Ackerley as he 
sat down. For a fleeting second, Harry had a strange 
desire to join the Ravenclaw table too. 

“Baddock, Malcolm!” 

“SLYTHERIN!” 

The table on the other side of the hall erupted with 
cheers; Harry could see Malfoy clapping as Baddock 

Page | 197 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




joined the Slytherins. Harry wondered whether 
Baddock knew that Slytherin House had turned out 
more Dark witches and wizards than any other. Fred 
and George hissed Malcolm Baddock as he sat down. 

“Branstone, Eleanor!” 

“HUFFLEPUFF!” 

“Cauldwell, Owen!” 

“HUFFLEPUFF!” 

“Creevey, Dennis!” 

Tiny Dennis Creevey staggered forward, tripping over 
Hagrid ’s moleskin, just as Hagrid himself sidled into 
the Hall through a door behind the teachers’ table. 
About twice as tall as a normal man, and at least 
three times as broad, Hagrid, with his long, wild, 
tangled black hair and beard, looked slightly alarming 
— a misleading impression, for Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione knew Hagrid to possess a very kind nature. 
He winked at them as he sat down at the end of the 
staff table and watched Dennis Creevey putting on 
the Sorting Hat. The rip at the brim opened wide — 

“GRYFFINDOR!” the hat shouted. 

Hagrid clapped along with the Gryffindors as Dennis 
Creevey, beaming widely, took off the hat, placed it 
back on the stool, and hurried over to join his 
brother. 

“Colin, I fell in!” he said shrilly, throwing himself into 
an empty seat. “It was brilliant! And something in the 
water grabbed me and pushed me back in the boat!” 



Page | 198 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Cool!” said Colin, just as excitedly. “It was probably 
the giant squid, Dennis!” 

“Wow\” said Dennis, as though nobody in their 
wildest dreams could hope for more than being 
thrown into a storm-tossed, fathoms-deep lake, and 
pushed out of it again by a giant sea monster. 

“Dennis! Dennis! See that boy down there? The one 
with the black hair and glasses? See him? Know who 
he is, Dennis ?” 

Harry looked away, staring very hard at the Sorting 
Hat, now Sorting Emma Dobbs. 

The Sorting continued; boys and girls with varying 
degrees of fright on their faces moving one by one to 
the three-legged stool, the line dwindling slowly as 
Professor McGonagall passed the L’s. 

“Oh hurry up,” Ron moaned, massaging his stomach. 

“Now, Ron, the Sorting’s much more important than 
food,” said Nearly Headless Nick as “Madley, Laura!” 
became a Hufflepuff. 

“ ’Course it is, if you’re dead,” snapped Ron. 

“I do hope this year’s batch of Gryffindors are up to 
scratch,” said Nearly Headless Nick, applauding as 
“McDonald, Natalie!” joined the Gryffindor table. “We 
don’t want to break our winning streak, do we?” 

Gryffindor had won the Inter-House Championship 
for the last three years in a row. 

“Pritchard, Graham!” 

“SLYTHERIN!” 

Page | 199 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Quirke, Orla!” 



“RAVENCLAW!” 

And finally, with “Whitby, Kevin!” (“HUFFLEPUFF!”), 
the Sorting ended. Professor McGonagall picked up 
the hat and the stool and carried them away. 

“About time,” said Ron, seizing his knife and fork and 
looking expectantly at his golden plate. 

Professor Dumbledore had gotten to his feet. He was 
smiling around at the students, his arms opened wide 
in welcome. 

“I have only two words to say to you,” he told them, 
his deep voice echoing around the Hall. “ Tuck in.” 

“Hear, hear!” said Harry and Ron loudly as the empty 
dishes filled magically before their eyes. 

Nearly Headless Nick watched mournfully as Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione loaded their own plates. 

“Aaah, ’at’s be’er,” said Ron, with his mouth full of 
mashed potato. 

“You’re lucky there’s a feast at all tonight, you know,” 
said Nearly Headless Nick. “There was trouble in the 
kitchens earlier.” 

“Why? Wha’ ’appened?” said Harry, through a sizable 
chunk of steak. 

“Peeves, of course,” said Nearly Headless Nick, 
shaking his head, which wobbled dangerously. He 
pulled his ruff a little higher up on his neck. “The 
usual argument, you know. He wanted to attend the 
feast — well, it’s quite out of the question, you know 
Page | 200 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




what he’s like, utterly uncivilized, can’t see a plate of 
food without throwing it. We held a ghost’s council — 
the Fat Friar was all for giving him the chance — but 
most wisely, in my opinion, the Bloody Baron put his 
foot down.” 

The Bloody Baron was the Slytherin ghost, a gaunt 
and silent specter covered in silver bloodstains. He 
was the only person at Hogwarts who could really 
control Peeves. 

“Yeah, we thought Peeves seemed hacked off about 
something,” said Ron darkly. “So what did he do in 
the kitchens?” 

“Oh the usual,” said Nearly Headless Nick, shrugging. 
“Wreaked havoc and mayhem. Pots and pans 
everywhere. Place swimming in soup. Terrified the 
house-elves out of their wits — ” 

Clang. 

Hermione had knocked over her golden goblet. 
Pumpkin juice spread steadily over the tablecloth, 
staining several feet of white linen orange, but 
Hermione paid no attention. 

“There are house-elves here?” she said, staring, 
horror-struck, at Nearly Headless Nick. “Here at 
Hogwarts ?” 

“Certainly,” said Nearly Headless Nick, looking 
surprised at her reaction. “The largest number in any 
dwelling in Britain, I believe. Over a hundred.” 

“I’ve never seen one!” said Hermione. 

“Well, they hardly ever leave the kitchen by day, do 
they?” said Nearly Headless Nick. “They come out at 

Page | 201 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




night to do a bit of cleaning . . . see to the fires and so 
on. ... I mean, you’re not supposed to see them, are 
you? That’s the mark of a good house-elf, isn’t it, that 
you don’t know it’s there?” 

Hermione stared at him. 

“But they get paid?” she said. “They get holidays, 
don’t they? And — and sick leave, and pensions, and 
everything?” 

Nearly Headless Nick chortled so much that his ruff 
slipped and his head flopped off, dangling on the inch 
or so of ghostly skin and muscle that still attached it 
to his neck. 

“Sick leave and pensions?” he said, pushing his head 
back onto his shoulders and securing it once more 
with his ruff. “House-elves don’t want sick leave and 
pensions!” 

Hermione looked down at her hardly touched plate of 
food, then put her knife and fork down upon it and 
pushed it away from her. 

“Oh c’mon, ’Er-my-knee,” said Ron, accidentally 
spraying Harry with bits of Yorkshire pudding. “Oops 
— sorry, ’Arry — ” He swallowed. “You won’t get them 
sick leave by starving yourself!” 

“Slave labor,” said Hermione, breathing hard through 
her nose. “That’s what made this dinner. Slave labor.” 

And she refused to eat another bite. 

The rain was still drumming heavily against the high, 
dark glass. Another clap of thunder shook the 
windows, and the stormy ceiling flashed, illuminating 



Page | 202 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the golden plates as the remains of the first course 
vanished and were replaced, instantly, with puddings. 

“Treacle tart, Hermione!” said Ron, deliberately 
wafting its smell toward her. “Spotted dick, look! 
Chocolate gateau!” 

But Hermione gave him a look so reminiscent of 
Professor McGonagall that he gave up. 

When the puddings too had been demolished, and the 
last crumbs had faded off the plates, leaving them 
sparkling clean, Albus Dumbledore got to his feet 
again. The buzz of chatter filling the Hall ceased 
almost at once, so that only the howling wind and 
pounding rain could be heard. 

“So!” said Dumbledore, smiling around at them all. 
“Now that we are all fed and watered,” (“Hmph!” said 
Hermione) “I must once more ask for your attention, 
while I give out a few notices. 

“Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me to tell you 
that the list of objects forbidden inside the castle has 
this year been extended to include Screaming Yo-yos, 
Fanged Frisbees, and Ever-Bashing Boomerangs. The 
full list comprises some four hundred and thirty- 
seven items, I believe, and can be viewed in Mr. 

Filch ’s office, if anybody would like to check it.” 

The corners of Dumbledore ’s mouth twitched. He 
continued, “As ever, I would like to remind you all 
that the forest on the grounds is out-of-bounds to 
students, as is the village of Hogsmeade to all below 
third year. 

“It is also my painful duty to inform you that the 
Inter-House Quidditch Cup will not take place this 
year.” 

Page | 203 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” Harry gasped. He looked around at Fred and 
George, his fellow members of the Quidditch team. 
They were mouthing soundlessly at Dumbledore, 
apparently too appalled to speak. Dumbledore went 
on, “This is due to an event that will be starting in 
October, and continuing throughout the school year, 
taking up much of the teachers’ time and energy — 
but I am sure you will all enjoy it immensely. I have 
great pleasure in announcing that this year at 
Hogwarts — ” 

But at that moment, there was a deafening rumble of 
thunder and the doors of the Great Hall banged open. 

A man stood in the doorway, leaning upon a long 
staff, shrouded in a black traveling cloak. Every head 
in the Great Hall swiveled toward the stranger, 
suddenly brightly illuminated by a fork of lightning 
that flashed across the ceiling. He lowered his hood, 
shook out a long mane of grizzled, dark gray hair, 
then began to walk up toward the teachers’ table. 

A dull clunk echoed through the Hall on his every 
other step. He reached the end of the top table, 
turned right, and limped heavily toward Dumbledore. 
Another flash of lightning crossed the ceiling. 
Hermione gasped. 

The lightning had thrown the man’s face into sharp 
relief, and it was a face unlike any Harry had ever 
seen. It looked as though it had been carved out of 
weathered wood by someone who had only the 
vaguest idea of what human faces are supposed to 
look like, and was none too skilled with a chisel. 
Every inch of skin seemed to be scarred. The mouth 
looked like a diagonal gash, and a large chunk of the 
nose was missing. But it was the man’s eyes that 
made him frightening. 



Page | 204 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




One of them was small, dark, and beady. The other 
was large, round as a coin, and a vivid, electric blue. 
The blue eye was moving ceaselessly, without 
blinking, and was rolling up, down, and from side to 
side, quite independently of the normal eye — and 
then it rolled right over, pointing into the back of the 
man’s head, so that all they could see was whiteness. 

The stranger reached Dumbledore. He stretched out a 
hand that was as badly scarred as his face, and 
Dumbledore shook it, muttering words Harry couldn’t 
hear. He seemed to be making some inquiry of the 
stranger, who shook his head unsmilingly and replied 
in an undertone. Dumbledore nodded and gestured 
the man to the empty seat on his right-hand side. 

The stranger sat down, shook his mane of dark gray 
hair out of his face, pulled a plate of sausages toward 
him, raised it to what was left of his nose, and sniffed 
it. He then took a small knife out of his pocket, 
speared a sausage on the end of it, and began to eat. 
His normal eye was fixed upon the sausages, but the 
blue eye was still darting restlessly around in its 
socket, taking in the Hall and the students. 

“May I introduce our new Defense Against the Dark 
Arts teacher?” said Dumbledore brightly into the 
silence. “Professor Moody.” 

It was usual for new staff members to be greeted with 
applause, but none of the staff or students clapped 
except Dumbledore and Hagrid, who both put their 
hands together and applauded, but the sound echoed 
dismally into the silence, and they stopped fairly 
quickly. Everyone else seemed too transfixed by 
Moody’s bizarre appearance to do more than stare at 
him. 



Page | 205 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Moody?” Harry muttered to Ron. “MacL-Eye Moody? 
The one your dad went to help this morning?” 

“Must be,” said Ron in a low, awed voice. 

“What happened to him?” Hermione whispered. “What 
happened to his face?” 

“Dunno,” Ron whispered back, watching Moody with 
fascination. 

Moody seemed totally indifferent to his less-than- 
warm welcome. Ignoring the jug of pumpkin juice in 
front of him, he reached again into his traveling cloak, 
pulled out a hip flask, and took a long draught from 
it. As he lifted his arm to drink, his cloak was pulled a 
few inches from the ground, and Harry saw, below the 
table, several inches of carved wooden leg, ending in a 
clawed foot. 

Dumbledore cleared his throat. 

“As I was saying,” he said, smiling at the sea of 
students before him, all of whom were still gazing 
transfixed at Mad-Eye Moody, “we are to have the 
honor of hosting a very exciting event over the coming 
months, an event that has not been held for over a 
century. It is my very great pleasure to inform you 
that the Triwizard Tournament will be taking place at 
Hogwarts this year.” 

“You’re JOKING!” said Fred Weasley loudly. 

The tension that had filled the Hall ever since Moody’s 
arrival suddenly broke. Nearly everyone laughed, and 
Dumbledore chuckled appreciatively. 

“I am not joking, Mr. Weasley,” he said, “though now 
that you mention it, I did hear an excellent one over 

Page | 206 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the summer about a troll, a hag, and a leprechaun 
who all go into a bar ...” 

Professor McGonagall cleared her throat loudly. 

“Er — but maybe this is not the time ... no ...” said 
Dumbledore, “where was I? Ah yes, the Triwizard 
Tournament ... well, some of you will not know what 
this tournament involves, so I hope those who do 
know will forgive me for giving a short explanation, 
and allow their attention to wander freely. 

“The Triwizard Tournament was first established 
some seven hundred years ago as a friendly 
competition between the three largest European 
schools of wizardry: Hogwarts, Beauxbatons, and 
Durmstrang. A champion was selected to represent 
each school, and the three champions competed in 
three magical tasks. The schools took it in turns to 
host the tournament once every five years, and it was 
generally agreed to be a most excellent way of 
establishing ties between young witches and wizards 
of different nationalities — until, that is, the death toll 
mounted so high that the tournament was 
discontinued.” 

“ Death toll?” Hermione whispered, looking alarmed. 
But her anxiety did not seem to be shared by the 
majority of students in the Hall; many of them were 
whispering excitedly to one another, and Harry 
himself was far more interested in hearing about the 
tournament than in worrying about deaths that had 
happened hundreds of years ago. 

“There have been several attempts over the centuries 
to reinstate the tournament,” Dumbledore continued, 
“none of which has been very successful. However, 
our own departments of International Magical 
Cooperation and Magical Games and Sports have 
Page | 207 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




decided the time is ripe for another attempt. We have 
worked hard over the summer to ensure that this 
time, no champion will find himself or herself in 
mortal danger. 

“The heads of Beauxbatons and Durmstrang will be 
arriving with their short-listed contenders in October, 
and the selection of the three champions will take 
place at Halloween. An impartial judge will decide 
which students are most worthy to compete for the 
Triwizard Cup, the glory of their school, and a 
thousand Galleons personal prize money.” 

“I’m going for it!” Fred Weasley hissed down the table, 
his face lit with enthusiasm at the prospect of such 
glory and riches. He was not the only person who 
seemed to be visualizing himself as the Hogwarts 
champion. At every House table, Harry could see 
people either gazing raptly at Dumbledore, or else 
whispering fervently to their neighbors. But then 
Dumbledore spoke again, and the Hall quieted once 
more. 

“Eager though I know all of you will be to bring the 
Triwizard Cup to Hogwarts,” he said, “the heads of the 
participating schools, along with the Ministry of 
Magic, have agreed to impose an age restriction on 
contenders this year. Only students who are of age — 
that is to say, seventeen years or older — will be 
allowed to put forward their names for consideration. 
This” — Dumbledore raised his voice slightly, for 
several people had made noises of outrage at these 
words, and the Weasley twins were suddenly looking 
furious — “is a measure we feel is necessary, given 
that the tournament tasks will still be difficult and 
dangerous, whatever precautions we take, and it is 
highly unlikely that students below sixth and seventh 
year will be able to cope with them. I will personally 
be ensuring that no underage student hoodwinks our 
Page | 208 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




impartial judge into making them Hogwarts 
champion.” His light blue eyes twinkled as they 
flickered over Fred’s and George’s mutinous faces. “I 
therefore beg you not to waste your time submitting 
yourself if you are under seventeen. 

“The delegations from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang 
will be arriving in October and remaining with us for 
the greater part of this year. I know that you will all 
extend every courtesy to our foreign guests while they 
are with us, and will give your whole-hearted support 
to the Hogwarts champion when he or she is selected. 
And now, it is late, and I know how important it is to 
you all to be alert and rested as you enter your 
lessons tomorrow morning. Bedtime! Chop chop!” 

Dumbledore sat down again and turned to talk to 
Mad-Eye Moody. There was a great scraping and 
banging as all the students got to their feet and 
swarmed toward the double doors into the entrance 
hall. 

“They can’t do that!” said George Weasley, who had 
not joined the crowd moving toward the door, but was 
standing up and glaring at Dumbledore. “We’re 
seventeen in April, why can’t we have a shot?” 

“They’re not stopping me entering,” said Fred 
stubbornly, also scowling at the top table. “The 
champions’ll get to do all sorts of stuff you’d never be 
allowed to do normally. And a thousand Galleons 
prize money!” 

“Yeah,” said Ron, a faraway look on his face. “Yeah, a 
thousand Galleons ...” 

“Come on,” said Hermione, “we’ll be the only ones left 
here if you don’t move.” 



Page | 209 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George set off for 
the entrance hall, Fred and George debating the ways 
in which Dumbledore might stop those who were 
under seventeen from entering the tournament. 

“Who’s this impartial judge who’s going to decide who 
the champions are?” said Harry. 

“Dunno,” said Fred, “but it’s them we’ll have to fool. I 
reckon a couple of drops of Aging Potion might do it, 
George. ...” 

“Dumbledore knows you’re not of age, though,” said 
Ron. 

“Yeah, but he’s not the one who decides who the 
champion is, is he?” said Fred shrewdly. “Sounds to 
me like once this judge knows who wants to enter, 
he’ll choose the best from each school and never mind 
how old they are. Dumbledore ’s trying to stop us 
giving our names.” 

“People have died, though!” said Hermione in a 
worried voice as they walked through a door 
concealed behind a tapestry and started up another, 
narrower staircase. 

“Yeah,” said Fred airily, “but that was years ago, 
wasn’t it? Anyway, where’s the fun without a bit of 
risk? Hey, Ron, what if we find out how to get ’round 
Dumbledore? Fancy entering?” 

“What d’you reckon?” Ron asked Harry. “Be cool to 
enter, wouldn’t it? But I s’pose they might want 
someone older. ... Dunno if we’ve learned enough. ...” 

“I definitely haven’t,” came Neville’s gloomy voice from 
behind Fred and George. 



Page | 210 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I expect my gran’d want me to try, though. She’s 
always going on about how I should be upholding the 
family honor. I’ll just have to — oops. ...” 

Neville’s foot had sunk right through a step halfway 
up the staircase. There were many of these trick 
stairs at Hogwarts; it was second nature to most of 
the older students to jump this particular step, but 
Neville’s memory was notoriously poor. Harry and 
Ron seized him under the armpits and pulled him 
out, while a suit of armor at the top of the stairs 
creaked and clanked, laughing wheezily. 

“Shut it, you,” said Ron, banging down its visor as 
they passed. 

They made their way up to the entrance to Gryffindor 
Tower, which was concealed behind a large portrait of 
a fat lady in a pink silk dress. 

“Password?” she said as they approached. 

“Balderdash,” said George, “a prefect downstairs told 
me.” 

The portrait swung forward to reveal a hole in the wall 
through which they all climbed. A crackling fire 
warmed the circular common room, which was full of 
squashy armchairs and tables. Hermione cast the 
merrily dancing flames a dark look, and Harry 
distinctly heard her mutter “ Slave labor,” before 
bidding them good night and disappearing through 
the doorway to the girls’ dormitory. 

Harry, Ron, and Neville climbed up the last, spiral 
staircase until they reached their own dormitory, 
which was situated at the top of the tower. Five four- 
poster beds with deep crimson hangings stood against 
the walls, each with its owner’s trunk at the foot. 

Page | 211 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




Dean and Seamus were already getting into bed; 
Seamus had pinned his Ireland rosette to his 
headboard, and Dean had tacked up a poster of 
Viktor Krum over his bedside table. His old poster of 
the West Ham football team was pinned right next to 
it. 

“Mental,” Ron sighed, shaking his head at the 
completely stationary soccer players. 

Harry, Ron, and Neville got into their pajamas and 
into bed. Someone — a house-elf, no doubt — had 
placed warming pans between the sheets. It was 
extremely comfortable, lying there in bed and 
listening to the storm raging outside. 

“I might go in for it, you know,” Ron said sleepily 
through the darkness, “if Fred and George find out 
how to ... the tournament ... you never know, do 
you?” 

“S’pose not. ...” 

Harry rolled over in bed, a series of dazzling new 
pictures forming in his mind’s eye. ... He had 
hoodwinked the impartial judge into believing he was 
seventeen ... he had become Hogwarts champion ... 
he was standing on the grounds, his arms raised in 
triumph in front of the whole school, all of whom were 
applauding and screaming ... he had just won the 
Triwizard Tournament. ... Cho’s face stood out 
particularly clearly in the blurred crowd, her face 
glowing with admiration. ... 

Harry grinned into his pillow, exceptionally glad that 
Ron couldn’t see what he could. 



Page | 212 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






MAD-EYE MOODY 

The storm had blown itself out by the following 
morning, though the ceiling in the Great Hall was still 
gloomy; heavy clouds of pewter gray swirled overhead 
as Harry, Ron, and Hermione examined their new 
course schedules at breakfast. A few seats along, 

Fred, George, and Lee Jordan were discussing 
magical methods of aging themselves and bluffing 
their way into the Triwizard Tournament. 

“Today’s not bad ... outside all morning,” said Ron, 
who was running his finger down the Monday column 
of his schedule. “Herbology with the Hufflepuffs and 
Care of Magical Creatures ... damn it, we’re still with 
the Slytherins. ...” 

“Double Divination this afternoon,” Harry groaned, 
looking down. Divination was his least favorite 
subject, apart from Potions. Professor Trelawney kept 
predicting Harry’s death, which he found extremely 
annoying. 



Page | 213 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“You should have given it up like me, shouldn’t you?” 
said Hermione briskly, buttering herself some toast. 
“Then you’d be doing something sensible like 
Arithmancy.” 

“You’re eating again, I notice,” said Ron, watching 
Hermione adding liberal amounts of jam to her toast 
too. 

“I’ve decided there are better ways of making a stand 
about elf rights,” said Hermione haughtily. 

“Yeah ... and you were hungry,” said Ron, grinning. 

There was a sudden rustling noise above them, and a 
hundred owls came soaring through the open 
windows carrying the morning mail. Instinctively, 
Harry looked up, but there was no sign of white 
among the mass of brown and gray. The owls circled 
the tables, looking for the people to whom their letters 
and packages were addressed. A large tawny owl 
soared down to Neville Longbottom and deposited a 
parcel into his lap — Neville almost always forgot to 
pack something. On the other side of the Hall Draco 
Malfoy’s eagle owl had landed on his shoulder, 
carrying what looked like his usual supply of sweets 
and cakes from home. Trying to ignore the sinking 
feeling of disappointment in his stomach, Harry 
returned to his porridge. Was it possible that 
something had happened to Hedwig, and that Sirius 
hadn’t even got his letter? 

His preoccupation lasted all the way across the 
sodden vegetable patch until they arrived in 
greenhouse three, but here he was distracted by 
Professor Sprout showing the class the ugliest plants 
Harry had ever seen. Indeed, they looked less like 
plants than thick, black, giant slugs, protruding 
vertically out of the soil. Each was squirming slightly 
Page | 214 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




and had a number of large, shiny swellings upon it, 
which appeared to be full of liquid. 

“Bubotubers,” Professor Sprout told them briskly. 
“They need squeezing. You will collect the pus — ” 

“The what?” said Seamus Finnigan, sounding 
revolted. 

“Pus, Finnigan, pus,” said Professor Sprout, “and it’s 
extremely valuable, so don’t waste it. You will collect 
the pus, I say, in these bottles. Wear your dragon- 
hide gloves; it can do funny things to the skin when 
undiluted, bubotuber pus.” 

Squeezing the bubotubers was disgusting, but oddly 
satisfying. As each swelling was popped, a large 
amount of thick yellowish-green liquid burst forth, 
which smelled strongly of petrol. They caught it in the 
bottles as Professor Sprout had indicated, and by the 
end of the lesson had collected several pints. 

“This’ll keep Madam Pomfrey happy,” said Professor 
Sprout, stoppering the last bottle with a cork. “An 
excellent remedy for the more stubborn forms of acne, 
bubotuber pus. Should stop students resorting to 
desperate measures to rid themselves of pimples.” 

“Like poor Eloise Midgen,” said Hannah Abbott, a 
Hufflepuff, in a hushed voice. “She tried to curse hers 
off.” 

“Silly girl,” said Professor Sprout, shaking her head. 
“But Madam Pomfrey fixed her nose back on in the 
end.” 

A booming bell echoed from the castle across the wet 
grounds, signaling the end of the lesson, and the 
class separated; the Hufflepuffs climbing the stone 

Page | 215 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




steps for Transfiguration, and the Gryffindors heading 
in the other direction, down the sloping lawn toward 
Hagrid ’s small wooden cabin, which stood on the edge 
of the Forbidden Forest. 

Hagrid was standing outside his hut, one hand on the 
collar of his enormous black boarhound, Fang. There 
were several open wooden crates on the ground at his 
feet, and Fang was whimpering and straining at his 
collar, apparently keen to investigate the contents 
more closely. As they drew nearer, an odd rattling 
noise reached their ears, punctuated by what 
sounded like minor explosions. 

“Mornin’!” Hagrid said, grinning at Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione. “Be’er wait fer the Slytherins, they won’ 
want ter miss this — Blast-Ended Skrewts!” 

“Come again?” said Ron. 

Hagrid pointed down into the crates. 

“Eurgh!” squealed Lavender Brown, jumping 
backward. 

“Eurgh” just about summed up the Blast-Ended 
Skrewts in Harry’s opinion. They looked like 
deformed, shell-less lobsters, horribly pale and slimy - 
looking, with legs sticking out in very odd places and 
no visible heads. There were about a hundred of them 
in each crate, each about six inches long, crawling 
over one another, bumping blindly into the sides of 
the boxes. They were giving off a very powerful smell 
of rotting fish. Every now and then, sparks would fly 
out of the end of a skrewt, and with a small phut, it 
would be propelled forward several inches. 



Page | 216 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“On’y jus’ hatched,” said Hagrid proudly, “so yeh’ll be 
able ter raise ’em yerselves! Thought we’d make a bit 
of a project of it!” 

“And why would we want to raise them?” said a cold 
voice. 

The Slytherins had arrived. The speaker was Draco 
Malfoy. Crabbe and Goyle were chuckling 
appreciatively at his words. 

Hagrid looked stumped at the question. 

“I mean, what do they do?” asked Malfoy. “What is the 
point of them?” 

Hagrid opened his mouth, apparently thinking hard; 
there was a few seconds’ pause, then he said roughly, 
“Tha’s next lesson, Malfoy. Yer jus’ feedin’ ’em today. 
Now, yeh’ll wan’ ter try ’em on a few diff’rent things — 
I’ve never had ’em before, not sure what they’ll go fer 

— I got ant eggs an’ frog livers an’ a bit o’ grass snake 

— just try ’em out with a bit of each.” 

“First pus and now this,” muttered Seamus. 

Nothing but deep affection for Hagrid could have 
made Harry, Ron, and Hermione pick up squelchy 
handfuls of frog liver and lower them into the crates 
to tempt the Blast-Ended Skrewts. Harry couldn’t 
suppress the suspicion that the whole thing was 
entirely pointless, because the skrewts didn’t seem to 
have mouths. 

“Ouch\” yelled Dean Thomas after about ten minutes. 
“It got me!” 

Hagrid hurried over to him, looking anxious. 



Page | 217 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Its end exploded!” said Dean angrily, showing Hagrid 
a burn on his hand. 

“Ah, yeah, that can happen when they blast off,” said 
Hagrid, nodding. 

“Eurgh!” said Lavender Brown again. “Eurgh, Hagrid, 
what’s that pointy thing on it?” 

“Ah, some of ’em have got stings,” said Hagrid 
enthusiastically (Lavender quickly withdrew her hand 
from the box). “I reckon they’re the males. ... The 
females Ve got sorta sucker things on their bellies. ... I 
think they might be ter suck blood.” 

“Well, I can certainly see why we’re trying to keep 
them alive,” said Malfoy sarcastically. “Who wouldn’t 
want pets that can burn, sting, and bite all at once?” 

“Just because they’re not very pretty, it doesn’t mean 
they’re not useful,” Hermione snapped. “Dragon 
