tore it into eighths — “git.” He threw the pieces into 
the fire. 

“Come on, we’ve got to get this finished some time 
before dawn,” he said briskly to Harry, pulling 
Professor Sinistra ’s essay back toward him. 

Hermione was looking at Ron with an odd expression 
on her face. 

“Oh, give them here,” she said abruptly. 

“What?” said Ron. 

“Give them to me, I’ll look through them and correct 
them,” she said. 

“Are you serious? Ah, Hermione, you’re a lifesaver,” 
said Ron, “what can I — ?” 



Page | 381Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What you can say is, ‘We promise well never leave 
our homework this late again,’ ” she said, holding out 
both hands for their essays, but she looked slightly 
amused all the same. 

“Thanks a million, Hermione,” said Harry weakly, 
passing over his essay and sinking back into his 
armchair, rubbing his eyes. 

It was now past midnight and the common room was 
deserted but for the three of them and Crookshanks. 
The only sound was that of Hermione’s quill 
scratching out sentences here and there on their 
essays and the ruffle of pages as she checked various 
facts in the reference books strewn across the table. 
Harry was exhausted. He also felt an odd, sick, empty 
feeling in his stomach that had nothing to do with 
tiredness and everything to do with the letter now 
curling blackly in the heart of the fire. 

He knew that half the people inside Hogwarts thought 
him strange, even mad; he knew that the Daily 
Prophet had been making snide allusions to him for 
months, but there was something about seeing it 
written down like that in Percy’s writing, about 
knowing that Percy was advising Ron to drop him and 
even to tell tales on him to Umbridge, that made his 
situation real to him as nothing else had. He had 
known Percy for four years, had stayed in his house 
during the summers, shared a tent with him during 
the Quidditch World Cup, had even been awarded full 
marks by him in the second task of the Triwizard 
Tournament last year, yet now, Percy thought him 
unbalanced and possibly violent. 

And with a surge of sympathy for his godfather, Harry 
thought that Sirius was probably the only person he 
knew who could really understand how he felt at the 
moment, because Sirius was in the same situation; 

Page | 382Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




nearly everyone in the Wizarding world thought Sirius 
a dangerous murderer and a great Voldemort 
supporter and he had had to live with that knowledge 
for fourteen years... 

Harry blinked. He had just seen something in the fire 
that could not have been there. It had flashed into 
sight and vanished immediately. No ... it could not 
have been... He had imagined it because he had been 
thinking about Sirius... 

“Okay, write that down,” Hermione said to Ron, 
pushing his essay and a sheet covered in her own 
writing back to Ron, “and then copy out this 
conclusion that I’ve written for you.” 

“Hermione, you are honestly the most wonderful 
person I’ve ever met,” said Ron weakly, “and if I’m 
ever rude to you again — ” 

“ — I’ll know you’re back to normal,” said Hermione. 
“Harry, yours is okay except for this bit at the end, I 
think you must have misheard Professor Sinistra, 
Europa’s covered in ice, not mice — Harry?” 

Harry had slid off his chair onto his knees and was 
now crouching on the singed and threadbare 
hearthrug, gazing into the flames. 

“Er — Harry?” said Ron uncertainly. “Why are you 
down there?” 

“Because I’ve just seen Sirius’s head in the fire,” said 
Harry. 

He spoke quite calmly; after all, he had seen Sirius’s 
head in this very fire the previous year and talked to 
it too. Nevertheless, he could not be sure that he had 
really seen it this time... It had vanished so quickly... 

Page | 383Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius’s head?” Hermione repeated. “You mean like 
when he wanted to talk to you during the Triwizard 
Tournament? But he wouldn’t do that now, it would 
be too — Siriusl” 

She gasped, gazing at the fire; Ron dropped his quill. 
There in the middle of the dancing flames sat Sirius’s 
head, long dark hair falling around his grinning face. 

“I was starting to think you’d go to bed before 
everyone else had disappeared,” he said. “I’ve been 
checking every hour.” 

“You’ve been popping into the fire every hour?” Harry 
said, half laughing. 

“Just for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear 
yet.” 

“But what if you’d been seen?” said Hermione 
anxiously. 

“Well, I think a girl — first year by the look of her — 
might’ve got a glimpse of me earlier, but don’t worry,” 
Sirius said hastily, as Hermione clapped a hand to 
her mouth. “I was gone the moment she looked back 
at me and I’ll bet she just thought I was an oddly 
shaped log or something.” 

“But Sirius, this is taking an awful risk — ” Hermione 
began. 

“You sound like Molly,” said Sirius. “This was the only 
way I could come up with of answering Harry’s letter 
without resorting to a code — and codes are 
breakable.” 

At the mention of Harry’s letter, Hermione and Ron 
had both turned to stare at him. 

Page | 384Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You didn’t say you’d written to Sirius!” said 
Hermione accusingly. 



“I forgot,” said Harry, which was perfectly true; his 
meeting with Cho in the Owlery had driven everything 
before it out of his mind. “Don’t look at me like that, 
Hermione, there was no way anyone would have got 
secret information out of it, was there, Sirius?” 

“No, it was very good,” said Sirius, smiling. “Anyway, 
we’d better be quick, just in case we’re disturbed — 
your scar.” 

“What about — ?” Ron began, but Hermione said 
quickly, “We’ll tell you afterward, go on, Sirius.” 

“Well, I know it can’t be fun when it hurts, but we 
don’t think it’s anything to really worry about. It kept 
aching all last year, didn’t it?” 

“Yeah, and Dumbledore said it happened whenever 
Voldemort was feeling a powerful emotion,” said 
Harry, ignoring, as usual, Ron and Hermione ’s 
winces. “So maybe he was just, I dunno, really angry 
or something the night I had that detention.” 

“Well, now he’s back it’s bound to hurt more often,” 
said Sirius. 

“So you don’t think it had anything to do with 
Umbridge touching me when I was in detention with 
her?” Harry asked. 

“I doubt it,” said Sirius. “I know her by reputation and 
I’m sure she’s no Death Eater — ” 

“She’s foul enough to be one,” said Harry darkly and 
Ron and Hermione nodded vigorously in agreement. 

Page | 385Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, but the world isn’t split into good people and 
Death Eaters,” said Sirius with a wry smile. “I know 
she’s a nasty piece of work, though — you should 
hear Remus talk about her.” 

“Does Lupin know her?” asked Harry quickly, 
remembering Umbridge’s comments about dangerous 
half-breeds during her first lesson. 

“No,” said Sirius, “but she drafted a bit of anti- 
werewolf legislation two years ago that makes it 
almost impossible for him to get a job.” 

Harry remembered how much shabbier Lupin looked 
these days and his dislike of Umbridge deepened even 
further. 

“What’s she got against werewolves?” said Hermione 
angrily. 

“Scared of them, I expect,” said Sirius, smiling at her 
indignation. “Apparently she loathes part-humans; 
she campaigned to have mer-people rounded up and 
tagged last year too. Imagine wasting your time and 
energy persecuting merpeople when there are little 
toerags like Kreacher on the loose — ” 

Ron laughed but Hermione looked upset. 

“Sirius!” she said reproachfully. “Honestly, if you 
made a bit of an effort with Kreacher I’m sure he’d 
respond, after all, you are the only member of his 
family he’s got left, and Professor Dumbledore said — ” 

“So what are Umbridge’s lessons like?” Sirius 
interrupted. “Is she training you all to kill half- 
breeds?” 



Page | 386Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry, ignoring Hermione’s affronted look 
at being cut off in her defense of Kreacher. “She’s not 
letting us use magic at all!” 

“All we do is read the stupid textbook,” said Ron. 

“Ah, well, that figures,” said Sirius. “Our information 
from inside the Ministry is that Fudge doesn’t want 
you trained in combat.” 

“ Trained in combat?” repeated Harry incredulously. 
“What does he think we’re doing here, forming some 
sort of wizard army?” 

“That’s exactly what he thinks you’re doing,” said 
Sirius, “or rather, that’s exactly what he’s afraid 
Dumbledore’s doing — forming his own private army, 
with which he will be able to take on the Ministry of 
Magic.” 

There was a pause at this, then Ron said, “That’s the 
stupidest thing I’ve ever heard, including all the stuff 
that Luna Lovegood comes out with.” 

“So we’re being prevented from learning Defense 
Against the Dark Arts because Fudge is scared we’ll 
use spells against the Ministry?” said Hermione, 
looking furious. 

“Yep,” said Sirius. “Fudge thinks Dumbledore will 
stop at nothing to seize power. He’s getting more 
paranoid about Dumbledore by the day. It’s a matter 
of time before he has Dumbledore arrested on some 
trumped-up charge.” 

This reminded Harry of Percy’s letter. 



Page | 387Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“D’you know if there’s going to be anything about 
Dumbledore in the Daily Prophet tomorrow? Only 
Ron’s brother Percy reckons there will be — ” 

“I don’t know,” said Sirius, “I haven’t seen anyone 
from the Order all weekend, they’re all busy. It’s just 
been Kreacher and me here...” 

There was a definite note of bitterness in Sirius’s 
voice. 

“So you haven’t had any news about Hagrid, either?” 

“Ah ...” said Sirius, “well, he was supposed to be back 
by now, no one’s sure what’s happened to him.” Then, 
seeing their stricken faces, he added quickly, “But 
Dumbledore’s not worried, so don’t you three get 
yourselves in a state; I’m sure Hagrid’s fine.” 

“But if he was supposed to be back by now ...” said 
Hermione in a small, worried voice. 

“Madame Maxime was with him, we’ve been in touch 
with her and she says they got separated on the 
journey home — but there’s nothing to suggest he’s 
hurt or — well, nothing to suggest he’s not perfectly 
okay.” 

Unconvinced, Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged 
worried looks. 

“Listen, don’t go asking too many questions about 
Hagrid,” said Sirius hastily, “it’ll just draw even more 
attention to the fact that he’s not back, and I know 
Dumbledore doesn’t want that. Hagrid’s tough, he’ll 
be okay.” And when they did not appear cheered by 
this, Sirius added, “When’s your next Hogsmeade 
weekend anyway? I was thinking, we got away with 



Page | 388Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the dog disguise at the station, didn’t we? I thought I 
could — ” 



“NO!” said Harry and Hermione together, very loudly. 

“Sirius, didn’t you see the Daily Prophet?” said 
Hermione anxiously. 

“Oh that,” said Sirius, grinning, “they’re always 
guessing where I am, they haven’t really got a clue — ” 

“Yeah, but we think this time they have,” said Harry. 
“Something Malfoy said on the train made us think he 
knew it was you, and his father was on the platform, 
Sirius — you know, Lucius Malfoy — so don’t come 
up here, whatever you do, if Malfoy recognizes you 
again — ” 

“All right, all right, I’ve got the point,” said Sirius. He 
looked most displeased. “Just an idea, thought you 
might like to get together — ” 

“I would, I just don’t want you chucked back in 
Azkaban!” said Harry. 

There was a pause in which Sirius looked out of the 
fire at Harry, a crease between his sunken eyes. 

“You’re less like your father than I thought,” he said 
finally, a definite coolness in his voice. “The risk 
would’ve been what made it fun for James.” 

“Look — ” 

“Well, I’d better get going, I can hear Kreacher coming 
down the stairs,” said Sirius, but Harry was sure he 
was lying. “I’ll write to tell you a time I can make it 
back into the fire, then, shall I? If you can stand to 
risk it?” 

Page | 389Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a tiny pop, and the place where Sirius’s 
head had been was flickering flame once more. 



Page | 390Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE HOGWARTS HIGH INQUISITOR 

They had expected to have to comb Hermione’s Daily 
Prophet carefully next morning to find the article 
Percy had mentioned in his letter. However, the 
departing delivery owl had barely cleared the top of 
the milk jug when Hermione let out a huge gasp and 
flattened the newspaper to reveal a large photograph 
of Dolores Umbridge, smiling widely and blinking 
slowly at them from beneath the headline: 

MINISTRY SEEKS EDUCATIONAL REFORM 

DOLORES UMBRIDGE APPOINTED FIRST-EVER 
“HIGH INQUISITOR” 

“ “High Inquisitor’?” said Harry darkly, his half-eaten 
bit of toast slipping from his fingers. “What does that 
mean?” 

Hermione read aloud: 

“In a surprise move last night the Ministry of Magic 
passed new legislation giving itself an unprecedented 

Page | 391Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



level of control at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and 
Wizardry. 

“ ‘The Minister has been growing uneasy about goings- 
on at Hogwarts for some time,’ said Junior Assistant to 
the Minister, Percy Weasley. ‘He is now responding to 
concerns voiced by anxious parents, who feel the 
school may be moving in a direction they do not 
approve.’ 

“This is not the first time in recent weeks Fudge has 
used new laws to effect improvements at the 
Wizarding school. As recently as August 30th 
Educational Decree Twenty -two was passed, to ensure 
that, in the event of the current headmaster being 
unable to provide a candidate for a teaching post, the 
Ministry should select an appropriate person. 

“ ‘That’s how Dolores Umbridge came to be appointed 
to the teaching staff at Hogwarts,’ said Weasley last 
night. ‘Dumbledore couldn’t find anyone, so the 
Minister put in Umbridge and of course, she’s been an 
immediate success — ’ ” 

“She’s been a WHAT?” said Harry loudly. 

“Wait, there’s more,” said Hermione grimly. 

“ ‘ — an immediate success, totally revolutionizing the 
teaching of Defense Against the Dark Arts and 
providing the Minister with on-the-ground feedback 
about what’s really happening at Hogwarts.’ 

“It is this last function that the Ministry has now 
formalized with the passing of Educational Decree 
Twenty-three, which creates the new position of 
‘Hogwarts High Inquisitor.’ 



Page | 392Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ ‘This is an exciting new phase in the Minister’s plan 
to get to grips with what some are calling the “falling 
standards” at Hog warts,’ said Weasley. ‘The Inquisitor 
will have powers to inspect her fellow educators and 
make sure that they are coming up to scratch. 

Professor Umbridge has been offered this position in 
addition to her own teaching post, and we are 
delighted to say that she has accepted.’ 

“The Ministry’s new moves have received enthusiastic 
support from parents of students at Hogwarts. 

“ ‘I feel much easier in my mind now that I know that 
Dumbledore is being subjected to fair and objective 
evaluation,’ said Mr. Lucius Malfoy, 41, speaking from 
his Wiltshire mansion last night. ‘Many of us with our 
children’s best interests at heart have been concerned 
about some of Dumbledore’s eccentric decisions in the 
last few years and will be glad to know that the 
Ministry is keeping an eye on the situation.’ 

“Among those ‘eccentric decisions’ are undoubtedly the 
controversial staff appointments previously described 
in this newspaper, which have included the hiring of 
werewolf Remus Lupin, half giant Rubeus Hagrid, and 
delusional ex-Auror ‘Mad-Eye’ Moody. 

“Rumors abound, of course, that Albus Dumbledore, 
once Supreme Mugwump of the International 
Confederation of Wizards and Chief Warlock of the 
Wizengamot, is no longer up to the task of managing 
the prestigious school of Hogwarts. 

“ ‘I think the appointment of the Inquisitor is a first step 
toward ensuring that Hogwarts has a headmaster in 
whom we can all repose confidence,’ said a Ministry 
insider last night. 



Page | 393Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Wizengamot elders Gris elda M archbanks and Tiberius 
Ogden have resigned in protest at the introduction of 
the post of Inquisitor to Hogwarts. 

“ ‘Hogwarts is a school, not an outpost of Cornelius 
Fudge’s office,’ said Madam Marchbanks. ‘This is a 
further disgusting attempt to discredit Albus 
Dumbledore.’ (For a full account of Madam 
Marchbanks’ alleged links to subversive goblin groups, 
turn to page 17].” 

Hermione finished reading and looked across the 
table at the other two. 

“So now we know how we ended up with Umbridge! 
Fudge passed this ‘Educational Decree’ and forced 
her on us! And now he’s given her the power to 
inspect other teachers!” Hermione was breathing fast 
and her eyes were very bright. “I can’t believe this. It’s 
outrageous...” 

“I know it is,” said Harry. He looked down at his right 
hand, clenched upon the tabletop, and saw the faint 
white outline of the words Umbridge had forced him 
to cut into his skin. 

But a grin was unfurling on Ron’s face. 

“What?” said Harry and Hermione together, staring at 
him. 

“Oh, I can’t wait to see McGonagall inspected,” said 
Ron happily. “Umbridge won’t know what’s hit her.” 

“Well, come on,” said Hermione, jumping up, “we’d 
better get going, if she’s inspecting Binns’s class we 
don’t want to be late...” 



Page | 394Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But Professor Umbridge was not inspecting their 
History of Magic lesson, which was just as dull as the 
previous Monday, nor was she in Snape’s dungeon 
when they arrived for double Potions, where Harry’s 
moonstone essay was handed back to him with a 
large, spiky black D scrawled in an upper corner. 

“I have awarded you the grades you would have 
received if you presented this work in your O.W.L,” 
said Snape with a smirk, as he swept among them, 
passing back their homework. “This should give you a 
realistic idea of what to expect in your examination.” 

Snape reached the front of the class and turned to 
face them. 

“The general standard of this homework was abysmal. 
Most of you would have failed had this been your 
examination. I expect to see a great deal more effort 
for this week’s essay on the various varieties of venom 
antidotes, or I shall have to start handing out 
detentions to those dunces who get D’s.” 

He smirked as Malfoy sniggered and said in a 
carrying whisper, “Some people got D’s? Ha!” 

Harry realized that Hermione was looking sideways to 
see what grade he had received; he slid his 
moonstone essay back into his bag as quickly as 
possible, feeling that he would rather keep that 
information private. 

Determined not to give Snape an excuse to fail him 
this lesson, Harry read and reread every line of the 
instructions on the blackboard at least three times 
before acting on them. His Strengthening Solution 
was not precisely the clear turquoise shade of 
Hermione ’s but it was at least blue rather than pink, 
like Neville’s, and he delivered a flask of it to Snape’s 
Page | 395Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




desk at the end of the lesson with a feeling of mingled 
defiance and relief. 

“Well, that wasn’t as bad as last week, was it?” said 
Hermione, as they climbed the steps out of the 
dungeon and made their way across the entrance hall 
toward lunch. “And the homework didn’t go too badly 
either, did it?” 

When neither Ron nor Harry answered, she pressed 
on, “I mean, all right, I didn’t expect the top grade, 
not if he’s marking to O.W.L. standard, but a pass is 
quite encouraging at this stage, wouldn’t you say?” 

Harry made a noncommittal noise in his throat. 

“Of course, a lot can happen between now and the 
exam, we’ve got plenty of time to improve, but the 
grades we’re getting now are a sort of baseline, aren’t 
they? Something we can build on ...” 

They sat down together at the Gryffindor table. 

“Obviously, I’d have been thrilled if I’d gotten an O — ” 

“Hermione,” said Ron sharply, “if you want to know 
what grades we got, ask.” 

“I don’t — I didn’t mean — well, if you want to tell me 



“I got a P,” said Ron, ladling soup into his bowl. 
“Happy?” 

“Well, that’s nothing to be ashamed of,” said Fred, 
who had just arrived at the table with George and Lee 
Jordan and was sitting down on Harry’s right. 
“Nothing wrong with a good healthy P.” 



Page | 396Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But,” said Hermione, “doesn’t P stand for ...” 

“ Boor,’ yeah,” said Lee Jordan. “Still, better than D, 
isn’t it? ‘Dreadful’?” 

Harry felt his face grow warm and faked a small 
coughing fit over his roll. When he emerged from this 
he was sorry to find that Hermione was still in full 
flow about O.W.L. grades. 

“So top grade’s O for ‘Outstanding,’ ” she was saying, 
“and then there’s A — ” 

“No, E,” George corrected her, “E for ‘Exceeds 
Expectations.’ And I’ve always thought Fred and I 
should’ve got E in everything, because we exceeded 
expectations just by turning up for the exams.” 

They all laughed except Hermione, who plowed on, 

“So after E, it’s A for ‘Acceptable,’ and that’s the last 
pass grade, isn’t it?” 

“Yep,” said Fred, dunking an entire roll in his soup, 
transferring it to his mouth, and swallowing it whole. 

“Then you get P for ‘Poor’ ” — Ron raised both his 
arms in mock celebration — “and D for ‘Dreadful.’ ” 

“And then T,” George reminded him. 

“T?” asked Hermione, looking appalled. “Even lower 
than a D? What on earth does that stand for?” 

“ Troll,’ ” said George promptly. 

Harry laughed again, though he was not sure whether 
or not George was joking. He imagined trying to 
conceal from Hermione that he had received T’s in all 



Page | 397Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




his O.W.L.s and immediately resolved to work harder 
from now on. 

“You lot had an inspected lesson yet?” Fred asked 
them. 

“No,” said Hermione at once, “have you?” 

“Just now, before lunch,” said George. “Charms.” 

“What was it like?” Harry and Hermione asked 
together. 

Fred shrugged. 

“Not that bad. Umbridge just lurked in the corner 
making notes on a clipboard. You know what 
Flitwick’s like, he treated her like a guest, didn’t seem 
to bother him at all. She didn’t say much. Asked 
Alicia a couple of questions about what the classes 
are normally like, Alicia told her they were really 
good, that was it.” 

“I can’t see old Flitwick getting marked down,” said 
George, “he usually gets everyone through their 
exams all right.” 

“Who’ve you got this afternoon?” Fred asked Harry. 
“Trelawney — ” 

“A T if ever I saw one — ” 

“ — and Umbridge herself.” 

“Well, be a good boy and keep your temper with 
Umbridge today,” said George. “Angelina’ll do her nut 
if you miss any more Quidditch practices.” 



Page | 398Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But Harry did not have to wait for Defense Against 
the Dark Arts to meet Professor Umbridge. He was 
pulling out his dream diary in a seat at the very back 
of the shadowy Divination room when Ron elbowed 
him in the ribs and, looking round, he saw Professor 
Umbridge emerging through the trapdoor in the floor. 
The class, which had been talking cheerily, fell silent 
at once. The abrupt fall in the noise level made 
Professor Trelawney, who had been wafting about 
handing out Dream Oracles, look round. 

“Good afternoon, Professor Trelawney,” said Professor 
Umbridge with her wide smile. “You received my note, 

I trust? Giving the time and date of your inspection?” 

Professor Trelawney nodded curtly and, looking very 
disgruntled, turned her back on Professor Umbridge 
and continued to give out books. Still smiling, 
Professor Umbridge grasped the back of the nearest 
armchair and pulled it to the front of the class so that 
it was a few inches behind Professor Trelawney’s seat. 
She then sat down, took her clipboard from her 
flowery bag, and looked up expectantly, waiting for 
the class to begin. 

Professor Trelawney pulled her shawls tight about her 
with slightly trembling hands and surveyed the class 
through her hugely magnifying lenses. “We shall be 
continuing our study of prophetic dreams today,” she 
said in a brave attempt at her usual mystic tones, 
though her voice shook slightly. “Divide into pairs, 
please, and interpret each other’s latest nighttime 
visions with the aid of the Oracle.” 

She made as though to sweep back to her seat, saw 
Professor Umbridge sitting right beside it, and 
immediately veered left toward Parvati and Lavender, 
who were already deep in discussion about Parvati’s 
most recent dream. 

Page | 399Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry opened his copy of The Dream Oracle, watching 
Umbridge covertly. She was making notes on her 
clipboard now. After a few minutes she got to her feet 
and began to pace the room in Trelawney’s wake, 
listening to her conversations with students and 
posing questions here and there. Harry bent his head 
hurriedly over his book. 

“Think of a dream, quick,” he told Ron, “in case the 
old toad comes our way.” 

“I did it last time,” Ron protested, “it’s your turn, you 
tell me one.” 

“Oh, I dunno ...” said Harry desperately, who could 
not remember dreaming anything at all over the last 
few days. “Let’s say I dreamed I was ... drowning 
Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, that’ll do...” 

Ron chortled as he opened his Dream Oracle. 

“Okay, we’ve got to add your age to the date you had 
the dream, the number of letters in the subject ... 
would that be ‘drowning’ or ‘cauldron’ or ‘Snape’?” 

“It doesn’t matter, pick any of them,” said Harry, 
chancing a glance behind him. Professor Umbridge 
was now standing at Professor Trelawney’s shoulder 
making notes while the Divination teacher questioned 
Neville about his dream diary. 

“What night did you dream this again?” Ron said, 
immersed in calculations. 

“I dunno, last night, whenever you like,” Harry told 
him, trying to listen to what Umbridge was saying to 
Professor Trelawney. They were only a table away 
from him and Ron now. Professor Umbridge was 



Page | 400Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




making another note on her clipboard and Professor 
Trelawney was looking extremely put out. 

“Now,” said Umbridge, looking up at Trelawney, 
“you’ve been in this post how long, exactly?” 

Professor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and 
shoulders hunched as though wishing to protect 
herself as much as possible from the indignity of the 
inspection. After a slight pause in which she seemed 
to decide that the question was not so offensive that 
she could reasonably ignore it, she said in a deeply 
resentful tone, “Nearly sixteen years.” 

“Quite a period,” said Professor Umbridge, making a 
note on her clipboard. “So it was Professor 
Dumbledore who appointed you?” 

“That’s right,” said Professor Trelawney shortly. 

Professor Umbridge made another note. 

“And you are a great-great-granddaughter of the 
celebrated Seer Cassandra Trelawney?” 

“Yes,” said Professor Trelawney, holding her head a 
little higher. 

Another note on the clipboard. 

“But I think — correct me if I am mistaken — that 
you are the first in your family since Cassandra to be 
possessed of second sight?” 

“These things often skip — er — three generations,” 
said Professor Trelawney. 

Professor Umbridge’s toadlike smile widened. 



Page | 401Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Of course,” she said sweetly, making yet another 
note. “Well, if you could just predict something for 
me, then?” 

She looked up inquiringly, still smiling. Professor 
Trelawney had stiffened as though unable to believe 
her ears. 

“I don’t understand you,” said Professor Trelawney, 
clutching convulsively at the shawl around her 
scrawny neck. 

“I’d like you to make a prediction for me,” said 
Professor Umbridge very clearly. 

Harry and Ron were not the only people watching and 
listening sneakily from behind their books now; most 
of the class were staring transfixed at Professor 
Trelawney as she drew herself up to her full height, 
her beads and bangles clinking. 

“The Inner Eye does not See upon command!” she 
said in scandalized tones. 

“I see,” said Professor Umbridge softly, making yet 
another note on her clipboard. 

“I — but — but ... wait\” said Professor Trelawney 
suddenly, in an attempt at her usual ethereal voice, 
though the mystical effect was ruined somewhat by 
the way it was shaking with anger. “I ... I think I do 
see something ... something that concerns you... Why, 
I sense something . . . something dark . . . some grave 
peril ...” 

Professor Trelawney pointed a shaking finger at 
Professor Umbridge who continued to smile blandly at 
her, eyebrows raised. 



Page | 402Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I am afraid ... I am afraid that you are in grave 
danger!” Professor Trelawney finished dramatically. 



There was a pause. Professor Umbridge’s eyebrows 
were still raised. 

“Right,” she said softly, scribbling on her clipboard 
once more. “Well, if that’s really the best you can do 



She turned away, leaving Professor Trelawney 
standing rooted to the spot, her chest heaving. Harry 
caught Ron’s eye and knew that Ron was thinking 
exactly the same as he was: They both knew that 
Professor Trelawney was an old fraud, but on the 
other hand, they loathed Umbridge so much that they 
felt very much on Trelawney’s side — until she 
swooped down on them a few seconds later, that was. 

“Well?” she said, snapping her long fingers under 
Harry’s nose, uncharacteristically brisk. “Let me see 
the start you’ve made on your dream diary, please.” 

And by the time she had interpreted Harry’s dreams 
at the top of her voice (all of which, even the ones that 
involved eating porridge, apparently foretold a 
gruesome and early death), he was feeling much less 
sympathetic toward her. All the while, Professor 
Umbridge stood a few feet away, making notes on that 
clipboard, and when the bell rang she descended the 
silver ladder first so that she was waiting for them all 
when they reached their Defense Against the Dark 
Arts lesson ten minutes later. 

She was humming and smiling to herself when they 
entered the room. Harry and Ron told Hermione, who 
had been in Arithmancy, exactly what had happened 
in Divination while they all took out their copies of 
Defensive Magical Theory, but before Hermione could 
Page | 403Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ask any questions Professor Umbridge had called 
them all to order and silence fell. 

“Wands away,” she instructed them all smilingly, and 
those people who had been hopeful enough to take 
them out sadly returned them to their bags. “As we 
finished chapter one last lesson, I would like you all 
to turn to page nineteen today and commence chapter 
two, ‘Common Defensive Theories and Their 
Derivation. ’ There will be no need to talk.” 

Still smiling her wide, self-satisfied smile, she sat 
down at her desk. The class gave an audible sigh as it 
turned, as one, to page nineteen. Harry wondered 
dully whether there were enough chapters in the book 
to keep them reading through all this year’s lessons 
and was on the point of checking the contents when 
he noticed that Hermione had her hand in the air 
again. 
