
The Ministry of Magic announced late last night that 
there has been a mass breakout from Azkaban. 



Page | 695Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Speaking to reporters in his private office, Cornelius 
Fudge, Minister of Magic, confirmed that ten high- 
security prisoners escaped in the early hours of 
yesterday evening, and that he has already informed 
the Muggle Prime Minister of the dangerous nature of 
these individuals. 

“We find ourselves, most unfortunately, in the same 
position we were two and a half years ago when the 
murderer Sirius Black escaped, ” said Fudge last night. 
“Nor do we think the two breakouts are unrelated. An 
escape of this magnitude suggests outside help, and 
we must remember that Black, as the first person ever 
to break out of Azkaban, would be ideally placed to 
help others follow in his footsteps. We think it likely 
that these individuals, who include Black’s cousin, 
Bellatrix Lestrange, have rallied around Black as their 
leader. We are, however, doing all we can to round up 
the criminals and beg the magical community to remain 
alert and cautious. On no account should any of these 
individuals be approached. ” 

“There you are, Harry,” said Ron, looking awestruck. 
“That’s why he was happy last night...” 

“I don’t believe this,” snarled Harry, “Fudge is blaming 
the breakout on Sirius?” 

“What other options does he have?” said Hermione 
bitterly. “He can hardly say, ‘Sorry everyone, 
Dumbledore warned me this might happen, the 
Azkaban guards have joined Lord Voldemort’ — stop 
whimpering, Ron — ‘and now Voldemort’s worst 
supporters have broken out too.’ I mean, he’s spent a 
good six months telling everyone you and Dumbledore 
are liars, hasn’t he?” 

Hermione ripped open the newspaper and began to 
read the report inside while Harry looked around the 

Page | 696Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Great Hall. He could not understand why his fellow 
students were not looking scared or at least 
discussing the terrible piece of news on the front 
page, but very few of them took the newspaper every 
day like Hermione. There they all were, talking about 
homework and Quidditch and who knew what other 
rubbish, and outside these walls ten more Death 
Eaters had swollen Voldemort’s ranks... 

He glanced up at the staff table. It was a different 
story here: Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall 
were deep in conversation, both looking extremely 
grave. Professor Sprout had the Prophet propped 
against a bottle of ketchup and was reading the front 
page with such concentration that she was not 
noticing the gentle drip of egg yolk falling into her lap 
from her stationary spoon. Meanwhile, at the far end 
of the table, Professor Umbridge was tucking into a 
bowl of porridge. For once her pouchy toad’s eyes 
were not sweeping the Great Hall looking for 
misbehaving students. She scowled as she gulped 
down her food and every now and then she shot a 
malevolent glance up the table to where Dumbledore 
and McGonagall were talking so intently. 

“Oh my — ” said Hermione wonderingly, still staring at 
the newspaper. 

“What now?” said Harry quickly; he was feeling 
jumpy. 

“It’s ... horrible,” said Hermione, looking shaken. She 
folded back page ten of the newspaper and handed it 
back to Harry and Ron. 

TRAGIC DEMISE OF 

MINISTRY OF MAGIC WORKER 



Page | 697Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




St. Mungo’s Hospital promised a full inquiry last 
night after Ministry of Magic worker Broderick Bode, 
49, was discovered dead in his bed, strangled by a 
potted-plant. Healers called to the scene were unable 
to revive Mr. Bode, who had been injured in a 
workplace accident some weeks prior to his death. 

Healer Miriam Strout, who was in charge of Mr. 

Bode’s ward at the time of the incident, has been 
suspended on full pay and was unavailable for 
comment yesterday, but a spokeswizard for the 
hospital said in a statement, “St. Mungo’s deeply 
regrets the death of Mr. Bode, whose health was 
improving steadily prior to this tragic accident. 

“We have strict guidelines on the decorations 
permitted on our wards but it appears that Healer 
Strout, busy over the Christmas period, overlooked 
the dangers of the plant on Mr. Bode’s bedside table. 
As his speech and mobility improved, Healer Strout 
encouraged Mr. Bode to look after the plant himself, 
unaware that it was not an innocent Flitterbloom, but 
a cutting of Devil’s Snare, which, when touched by 
the convalescent Mr. Bode, throttled him instantly. 

“St. Mungo’s is as yet unable to account for the 
presence of the plant on the ward and asks any witch 
or wizard with information to come forward.” 

“Bode ...” said Ron. “Bode. It rings a bell...” 

“We saw him,” Hermione whispered. “In St. Mungo’s, 
remember? He was in the bed opposite Lockhart’s, 
just lying there, staring at the ceiling. And we saw the 
Devil’s Snare arrive. She — the Healer — said it was a 
Christmas present...” 

Harry looked back at the story. A feeling of horror was 
rising like bile in his throat. 

Page | 698Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“How come we didn’t recognize Devil’s Snare ... ? 
We’ve seen it before ... we could’ve stopped this from 
happening ...” 

“Who expects Devil’s Snare to turn up in a hospital 
disguised as a potted plant?” said Ron sharply. “It’s 
not our fault, whoever sent it to the bloke is to blame! 
They must be a real prat, why didn’t they check what 
they were buying?” 

“Oh come on, Ron!” said Hermione shakily, “I don’t 
think anyone could put Devil’s Snare in a pot and not 
realize it tries to kill whoever touches it? This — this 
was murder... A clever murder, as well... If the plant 
was sent anonymously, how’s anyone ever going to 
find out who did it?” 

Harry was not thinking about Devil’s Snare. He was 
remembering taking the lift down to the ninth level of 
the Ministry on the day of his hearing, and the 
sallow-faced man who had got in on the Atrium level. 

“I met Bode,” he said slowly. “I saw him at the 
Ministry with your dad ...” 

Ron’s mouth fell open. 

“I’ve heard Dad talk about him at home! He was an 
Unspeakable — he worked in the Department of 
Mysteries!” 

They looked at one another for a moment, then 
Hermione pulled the newspaper back toward her, 
closed it, glared for a moment at the pictures of the 
ten escaped Death Eaters on the front, then leapt to 
her feet. 

“Where are you going?” said Ron, startled. 



Page | 699Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“To send a letter,” said Hermione, swinging her bag 
onto her shoulder. “It ... well, I don’t know whether ... 
but it’s worth trying ... and I’m the only one who can 



“I hate it when she does that,” grumbled Ron as he 
and Harry got up from the table and made their own, 
slower way out of the Great Hall. “Would it kill her to 
tell us what she’s up to for once? It’d take her about 
ten more seconds — hey, Hagrid!” 

Hagrid was standing beside the doors into the 
entrance hall, waiting for a crowd of Ravenclaws to 
pass. He was still as heavily bruised as he had been 
on the day he had come back from his mission to the 
giants and there was a new cut right across the 
bridge of his nose. 

“All righ’, you two?” he said, trying to muster a smile 
but managing only a kind of pained grimace. 

“Are you okay, Hagrid?” asked Harry, following him as 
he lumbered after the Ravenclaws. 

“Fine, fine,” said Hagrid with a feeble assumption of 
airiness; he waved a hand and narrowly missed 
concussing a frightened-looking Professor Vector, who 
was passing. “Jus’ busy, yeh know, usual stuff — 
lessons ter prepare — couple o’ salamanders got scale 
rot — an’ I’m on probation,” he mumbled. 

“ You’re on probation?” said Ron very loudly, so that 
many students passing looked around curiously. 
“Sorry — I mean — you’re on probation?” he 
whispered. 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid. “ ’S’no more’n I expected, ter tell 
yeh the truth. Yeh migh’ not’ve picked up on it, bu’ 
that inspection didn’ go too well, yeh know ... 

Page | 700Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




anyway,” he sighed deeply. “Bes’ go an mb a bit more 
chili powder on them salamanders or their tails’ll be 
hangin’ off ’em next. See yeh, Harry ... Ron ...” 

He trudged away, out the front doors and down the 
stone steps into the damp grounds. Harry watched 
him go, wondering how much more bad news he 
could stand. 

The fact that Hagrid was now on probation became 
common knowledge within the school over the next 
few days, but to Harry’s indignation, hardly anybody 
appeared to be upset about it; indeed, some people, 
Draco Malfoy prominent among them, seemed 
positively gleeful. As for the freakish death of an 
obscure Department of Mysteries employee in St. 
Mungo’s, Harry, Ron, and Hermione seemed to be the 
only people who knew or cared. There was only one 
topic of conversation in the corridors now: the ten 
escaped Death Eaters, whose story had finally filtered 
through the school from those few people who read 
the newspapers. Rumors were flying that some of the 
convicts had been spotted in Hogsmeade, that they 
were supposed to be hiding out in the Shrieking 
Shack and that they were going to break into 
Hogwarts, just as Sirius Black had done. 

Those who came from Wizarding families had grown 
up hearing the names of these Death Eaters spoken 
with almost as much fear as Voldemort’s; the crimes 
they had committed during the days of Voldemort’s 
reign of terror were legendary. There were relatives of 
their victims among the Hogwarts students, who now 
found themselves the unwilling objects of a gruesome 
sort of reflected fame as they walked the corridors: 
Susan Bones, who had an uncle, aunt, and cousins 
who had all died at the hands of one of the ten, said 
miserably during Herbology that she now had a good 
idea what it felt like to be Harry. 

Page | 701Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“And I don’t know how you stand it, it’s horrible,” she 
said bluntly, dumping far too much dragon manure 
on her tray of Screechsnap seedlings, causing them to 
wriggle and squeak in discomfort. 

It was true that Harry was the subject of much 
renewed muttering and pointing in the corridors these 
days, yet he thought he detected a slight difference in 
the tone of the whisperers’ voices. They sounded 
curious rather than hostile now, and once or twice he 
was sure he overheard snatches of conversation that 
suggested that the speakers were not satisfied with 
the Prophet’s version of how and why ten Death 
Eaters had managed to break out of Azkaban fortress. 
In their confusion and fear, these doubters now 
seemed to be turning to the only other explanation 
available to them, the one that Harry and 
Dumbledore had been expounding since the previous 
year. 

It was not only the students’ mood that had changed. 
It was now quite common to come across two or three 
teachers conversing in low, urgent whispers in the 
corridors, breaking off their conversations the 
moment they saw students approaching. 

“They obviously can’t talk freely in the staffroom 
anymore,” said Hermione in a low voice, as she, 

Harry, and Ron passed Professors McGonagall, 
Flitwick, and Sprout huddled together outside the 
Charms classroom one day. “Not with Umbridge 
there.” 

“Reckon they know anything new?” said Ron, gazing 
back over his shoulder at the three teachers. 

“If they do, we’re not going to hear about it, are we?” 
said Harry angrily. “Not after Decree ... What number 
are we on now?” 

Page | 702Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




For new signs had appeared on the house notice 
boards the morning after news of the Azkaban 
breakout: 

— BY ORDER OF — 

THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS 

Teachers are hereby banned from giving students any 
information that is not strictly related to the subjects 
they are paid to teach. 

The above is in accordance with 

Educational Decree Number Twenty-six. 

Signed: 

Dolores Jane Umbridge 
HIGH INQUISITOR 

This latest decree had been the subject of a great 
number of jokes among the students. Lee Jordan had 
pointed out to Umbridge that by the terms of the new 
rule she was not allowed to tell Fred and George off 
for playing Exploding Snap in the back of the class. 

“Exploding Snap’s got nothing to do with Defense 
Against the Dark Arts, Professor! That’s not 
information relating to your subject!” 

When Harry next saw Lee, the back of his hand was 
bleeding rather badly. Harry recommended essence of 
murtlap. 

Harry had thought that the breakout from Azkaban 
might have humbled Umbridge a little, that she might 



Page | 703Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have been abashed at the catastrophe that had 
occurred right under her beloved Fudge’s nose. It 
seemed, however, to have only intensified her furious 
desire to bring every aspect of life at Hogwarts under 
her personal control. She seemed determined at the 
very least to achieve a sacking before long, and the 
only question was whether it would be Professor 
Trelawney or Hagrid who went first. 

Every single Divination and Care of Magical Creatures 
lesson was now conducted in the presence of 
Umbridge and her clipboard. She lurked by the fire in 
the heavily perfumed tower room, interrupting 
Professor Trelawney’s increasingly hysterical talks 
with difficult questions about Ornithomancy and 
Heptomology, insisting that she predict students’ 
answers before they gave them and demanding that 
she demonstrate her skill at the crystal ball, the tea 
leaves, and the rune stones in turn. Harry thought 
that Professor Trelawney might soon crack under the 
strain; several times he passed her in the corridors (in 
itself a very unusual occurrence as she generally 
remained in her tower room), muttering wildly to 
herself, wringing her hands, and shooting terrified 
glances over her shoulder, all the time giving off a 
powerful smell of cooking sherry. If he had not been 
so worried about Hagrid, he would have felt sorry for 
her — but if one of them was to be ousted out of a 
job, there could be only one choice for Harry as to 
who should remain. 

Unfortunately, Harry could not see that Hagrid was 
putting up a better show than Trelawney. Though he 
seemed to be following Hermione’s advice and had 
shown them nothing more frightening than a crup, a 
creature indistinguishable from a Jack Russell terrier 
except for its forked tail, since before Christmas, he 
also seemed to have lost his nerve. He was oddly 
distracted and jumpy in lessons, losing the thread of 
Page | 704Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what he was saying while talking to the class, 
answering questions wrongly and glancing anxiously 
at Umbridge all the time. He was also more distant 
with Harry, Ron, and Hermione than he had ever 
been before, expressly forbidding them to visit him 
after dark. 

“If she catches yeh, it’ll be all of our necks on the 
line,” he told them flatly, and with no desire to do 
anything that jeopardized his job further, they 
abstained from walking down to his hut in the 
evenings. It seemed to Harry that Umbridge was 
steadily depriving him of everything that made his life 
at Hogwarts worth living: visits to Hagrid’s house, 
letters from Sirius, his Firebolt, and Quidditch. He 
took his revenge the only way he had: redoubling his 
efforts for the D.A. 

Harry was pleased to see that all of them, even 
Zacharias Smith, had been spurred to work harder 
than ever by the news that ten more Death Eaters 
were now on the loose, but in nobody was this 
improvement more pronounced than in Neville. The 
news of his parents’ attacker’s escape had wrought a 
strange and even slightly alarming change in him. He 
had not once mentioned his meeting with Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione on the closed ward in St. Mungo’s, and 
taking their lead from him, they had kept quiet about 
it too. Nor had he said anything on the subject of 
Bellatrix and her fellow torturers’ escape; in fact, he 
barely spoke during D.A. meetings anymore, but 
worked relentlessly on every new jinx and 
countercurse Harry taught them, his plump face 
screwed up in concentration, apparently indifferent to 
injuries or accidents, working harder than anyone 
else in the room. He was improving so fast it was 
quite unnerving and when Harry taught them the 
Shield Charm, a means of deflecting minor jinxes so 



Page | 705Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that they rebounded upon the attacker, only 
Hermione mastered the charm faster than Neville. 

In fact Harry would have given a great deal to be 
making as much progress at Occlumency as Neville 
was making during D.A. meetings. Harry’s sessions 
with Snape, which had started badly enough, were 
not improving; on the contrary, Harry felt he was 
getting worse with every lesson. 

Before he had started studying Occlumency, his scar 
had prickled occasionally, usually during the night, or 
else following one of those strange flashes of 
Voldemort’s thoughts or moods that he experienced 
every now and then. Nowadays, however, his scar 
hardly ever stopped prickling, and he often felt 
lurches of annoyance or cheerfulness that were 
unrelated to what was happening to him at the time, 
which were always accompanied by a particularly 
painful twinge from his scar. He had the horrible 
impression that he was slowly turning into a kind of 
aerial that was tuned in to tiny fluctuations in 
Voldemort’s mood, and he was sure he could date this 
increased sensitivity firmly from his first Occlumency 
lesson with Snape. What was more, he was now 
dreaming about walking down the corridor toward the 
entrance to the Department of Mysteries almost every 
night, dreams that always culminated in him 
standing longingly in front of the plain black door. 

“Maybe it’s a bit like an illness,” said Hermione, 
looking concerned when Harry confided in her and 
Ron. “A fever or something. It has to get worse before 
it gets better.” 

“It’s lessons with Snape that are making it worse,” 
said Harry flatly. “I’m getting sick of my scar hurting, 
and I’m getting bored walking down that corridor 
every night.” He rubbed his forehead angrily. “I just 

Page | 706Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wish the door would open, I’m sick of standing staring 
at it — ” 

“That’s not funny,” said Hermione sharply. 
“Dumbledore doesn’t want you to have dreams about 
that corridor at all, or he wouldn’t have asked Snape 
to teach you Occlumency. You’re just going to have to 
work a bit harder in your lessons.” 

“I am working!” said Harry, nettled. “You try it 
sometime, Snape trying to get inside your head, it’s 
not a bundle of laughs, you know!” 

“Maybe ...” said Ron slowly. 

“Maybe what?” said Hermione rather snappishly. 

“Maybe it’s not Harry’s fault he can’t close his mind,” 
said Ron darkly. 

“What do you mean?” said Hermione. 

“Well, maybe Snape isn’t really trying to help Harry...” 

Harry and Hermione stared at him. Ron looked darkly 
and meaningfully from one to the other. 

“Maybe,” he said again in a lower voice, “he’s actually 
trying to open Harry’s mind a bit wider . . . make it 
easier for You-Know — ” 

“Shut up, Ron,” said Hermione angrily. “How many 
times have you suspected Snape, and when have you 
ever been right? Dumbledore trusts him, he works for 
the Order, that ought to be enough.” 

“He used to be a Death Eater,” said Ron stubbornly. 
“And we’ve never seen proof that he really swapped 
sides...” 

Page | 707Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Dumbledore trusts him,” Hermione repeated. “And if 
we can’t trust Dumbledore, we can’t trust anyone.” 

With so much to worry about and so much to do — 
startling amounts of homework that frequently kept 
the fifth years working until past midnight, secret 
D.A. meetings, and regular classes with Snape — 
January seemed to be passing alarmingly fast. Before 
Harry knew it, February had arrived, bringing with it 
wetter and warmer weather and the prospect of the 
second Hogsmeade visit of the year. Harry had had 
very little time to spare on conversations with Cho 
since they had agreed to visit the village together, but 
suddenly found himself facing a Valentine’s Day 
spent entirely in her company. 

On the morning of the fourteenth he dressed 
particularly carefully. He and Ron arrived at breakfast 
just in time for the arrival of the post owls. Hedwig 
was not there — not that he had expected her — but 
Hermione was tugging a letter from the beak of an 
unfamiliar brown owl as they sat down. 

“And about time! If it hadn’t come today ...” she said 
eagerly, tearing open the envelope and pulling out a 
small piece of parchment. Her eyes sped from left to 
right as she read through the message and a grimly 
pleased expression spread across her face. 

“Listen, Harry,” she said, looking up at him. “This is 
really important... Do you think you could meet me in 
the Three Broomsticks around midday?” 

“Well ... I dunno,” said Harry dubiously. “Cho might 
be expecting me to spend the whole day with her. We 
never said what we were going to do.” 

“Well, bring her along if you must,” said Hermione 
urgently. “But will you come?” 

Page | 708Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well ... all right, but why?” 



“I haven’t got time to tell you now, I’ve got to answer 
this quickly — ” 

And she hurried out of the Great Hall, the letter 
clutched in one hand and a piece of uneaten toast in 
the other. 

“Are you coming?” Harry asked Ron, but he shook his 
head, looking glum. 

“I can’t come into Hogsmeade at all, Angelina wants a 
full day’s training. Like it’s going to help — we’re the 
worst team I’ve ever seen. You should see Sloper and 
Kirke, they’re pathetic, even worse than I am.” He 
heaved a great sigh. “I dunno why Angelina won’t just 
let me resign...” 

“It’s because you’re good when you’re on form, that’s 
why,” said Harry irritably. 

He found it very hard to be sympathetic to Ron’s 
plight when he himself would have given almost 
anything to be playing in the forthcoming match 
against Hufflepuff. Ron seemed to notice Harry’s tone, 
because he did not mention Quidditch again during 
breakfast, and there was a slight frostiness in the way 
they said good-bye to each other shortly afterward. 
Ron departed for the Quidditch pitch and Harry, after 
attempting to flatten his hair while staring at his 
reflection in the back of a teaspoon, proceeded alone 
to the entrance hall to meet Cho, feeling very 
apprehensive and wondering what on earth they were 
going to talk about. 

She was waiting for him a little to the side of the oak 
front doors, looking very pretty with her hair tied 
back in a long ponytail. Harry’s feet seemed to be too 

Page | 709Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




big for his body as he walked toward her, and he was 
suddenly horribly aware of his arms and how stupid 
they looked swinging at his sides. 

“Hi,” said Cho slightly breathlessly. 

“Hi,” said Harry. 

They stared at each other for a moment, then Harry 
said, “Well — er — shall we go, then?” 

“Oh — yes ...” 

They joined the queue of people being signed out by 
Filch, occasionally catching each other’s eye and 
grinning shiftily, but not talking to each other. Harry 
was relieved when they reached the fresh air, finding 
it easier to walk along in silence than just stand there 
looking awkward. It was a fresh, breezy sort of day 
and as they passed the Quidditch stadium, Harry 
glimpsed Ron and Ginny skimming over the stands 
and felt a horrible pang that he was not up there with 
them... 

“You really miss it, don’t you?” said Cho. 

He looked around and saw her watching him. 

“Yeah,” sighed Harry. “I do.” 

“Remember the first time we played against each 
other, in the third year?” she asked him. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, grinning. “You kept blocking me.” 

“And Wood told you not to be a gentleman and knock 
me off my broom if you had to,” said Cho, smiling 
reminiscently. “I heard he got taken on by Pride of 
Portree, is that right?” 

Page | 710Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Nah, it was Puddlemere United, I saw him at the 
World Cup last year.” 

“Oh, I saw you there too, remember? We were on the 
same campsite. It was really good, wasn’t it?” 

The subject of the Quidditch World Cup carried them 
all the way down the drive and out through the gates. 
Harry could hardly believe how easy it was to talk to 
her, no more difficult, in fact, than talking to Ron and 
Hermione, and he was just starting to feel confident 
and cheerful when a large gang of Slytherin girls 
passed them, including Pansy Parkinson. 

“Potter and Chang!” screeched Pansy to a chorus of 
snide giggles. “Urgh, Chang, I don’t think much of 
your taste... At least Diggory was good-looking!” 

They sped up, talking and shrieking in a pointed 
fashion with many exaggerated glances back at Harry 
and Cho, leaving an embarrassed silence in their 
wake. Harry could think of nothing else to say about 
Quidditch, and Cho, slightly flushed, was watching 
her feet. 

“So ... where d’you want to go?” Harry asked as they 
entered Hogsmeade. The High Street was full of 
students ambling up and down, peering into the shop 
windows and messing about together on the 
pavements. 

“Oh ... I don’t mind,” said Cho, shrugging. “Um ... 
shall we just have a look in the shops or something?” 

They wandered toward Dervish and Banges. A large 
poster had been stuck up in the window and a few 
Hogsmeaders were looking at it. They moved aside 
when Harry and Cho approached and Harry found 
himself staring once more at the ten pictures of the 
Page | 711Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




escaped Death Eaters. The poster (“By Order of the 
Ministry of Magic”) offered a thousand-Galleon reward 
to any witch or wizard with information relating to the 
recapture of any of the convicts pictured. 

“It’s funny, isn’t it,” said Cho in a low voice, also 
gazing up at the pictures of the Death Eaters. 
“Remember when that Sirius Black escaped, and 
there were dementors all over Hogsmeade looking for 
him? And now ten Death Eaters are on the loose and 
there aren’t dementors anywhere...” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, tearing his eyes away from 
Bellatrix Lestrange’s face to glance up and down the 
High Street. “Yeah, it is weird...” 

He was not sorry that there were no dementors 
nearby, but now he came to think of it, their absence 
was highly significant. They had not only let the 
Death Eaters escape, they were not bothering to look 
for them... It looked as though they really were 
outside Ministry control now. 

The ten escaped Death Eaters were staring out of 
every shop window he and Cho passed. It started to 
rain as they passed Scrivenshaft’s; cold, heavy drops 
of water kept hitting Harry’s face and the back of his 
neck. 

“Um ... d’you want to get a coffee?” said Cho 
tentatively, as the rain began to fall more heavily. 

“Yeah, all right,” said Harry, looking around. “Where 
— ?” 

“Oh, there’s a really nice place just up here, haven’t 
you ever been to Madam Puddifoot’s?” she said 
brightly, and she led him up a side road and into a 
small tea shop that Harry had never noticed before. It 

Page | 712Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




was a cramped, steamy little place where everything 
seemed to have been decorated with frills or bows. 
Harry was reminded unpleasantly of Umbridge’s 
office. 

“Cute, isn’t it?” said Cho happily. 

“Er ... yeah,” said Harry untruthfully. 

“Look, she’s decorated it for Valentine’s Day!” said 
Cho, indicating a number of golden cherubs that were 
hovering over each of the small, circular tables, 
occasionally throwing pink confetti over the 
occupants. 

“Aaah ...” 

They sat down at the last remaining table, which was 
situated in the steamy window. Roger Davies, the 
Ravenclaw Quidditch Captain, was sitting about a 
foot and a half away with a pretty blonde girl. They 
were holding hands. The sight made Harry feel 
uncomfortable, particularly when, looking around the 
tea shop, he saw that it was full of nothing but 
couples, all of them holding hands. Perhaps Cho 
would expect him to hold her hand. 

“What can I get you, m’dears?” said Madam 
Puddifoot, a very stout woman with a shiny black 
bun, squeezing between their table and Roger 
Davies’s with great difficulty. 

“Two coffees, please,” said Cho. 

In the time it took for their coffees to arrive, Roger 
Davies and his girlfriend started kissing over their 
sugar bowl. Harry wished they wouldn’t; he felt that 
Davies was setting a standard with which Cho would 
soon expect him to compete. He felt his face growing 
Page | 713Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hot and tried staring out of the window, but it was so 
steamed up he could not see the street outside. To 
postpone the moment when he had to look at Cho he 
stared up at the ceiling as though examining the 
paintwork and received a handful of confetti in the 
face from their hovering cherub. 

After a few more painful minutes Cho mentioned 
Umbridge; Harry seized on the subject with relief and 
they passed a few happy moments abusing her, but 
the subject had already been so thoroughly canvassed 
during D.A. meetings it did not last very long. Silence 
fell again. Harry was very conscious of the slurping 
noises coming from the table next door and cast 
wildly around for something else to say. 

“Er ... listen, d’you want to come with me to the Three 
Broomsticks at lunchtime? I’m meeting Hermione 
Granger there.” 

Cho raised her eyebrows. 

“You’re meeting Hermione Granger? Today?” 

“Yeah. Well, she asked me to, so I thought I would. 
D’you want to come with me? She said it wouldn’t 
matter if you did.” 

“Oh ... well ... that was nice of her.” 

But Cho did not sound as though she thought it was 
nice at all; on the contrary, her tone was cold and all 
of a sudden she looked rather forbidding. 

A few more minutes passed in total silence, Harry 
drinking his coffee so fast that he would soon need a 
fresh cup. Next door, Roger Davies and his girlfriend 
seemed glued together by the lips. 



Page | 714Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Cho’s hand was lying on the table beside her coffee, 
and Harry was feeling a mounting pressure to take 
hold of it. Just do it, he told himself, as a fount of 
mingled panic and excitement surged up inside his 
chest. Just reach out and grab it... Amazing how much 
more difficult it was to extend his arm twelve inches 
and touch her hand than to snatch a speeding Snitch 
from midair ... 

But just as he moved his hand forward, Cho took 
hers off the table. She was now watching Roger 
Davies kissing his girlfriend with a mildly interested 
expression. 

“He asked me out, you know,” she said in a quiet 
voice. “A couple of weeks ago. Roger. I turned him 
down, though.” 

Harry, who had grabbed the sugar bowl to excuse his 
sudden lunging movement across the table, could not 
think why she was telling him this. If she wished she 
were sitting at the table next door being heartily 
kissed by Roger Davies, why had she agreed to come 
out with him? 

He said nothing. Their cherub threw another handful 
of confetti over them; some of it landed in the last 
cold dregs of coffee Harry had been about to drink. 

“I came in here with Cedric last year,” said Cho. 

In the second or so it took for him to take in what she 
had said, Harry’s insides had become glacial. He 
could not believe she wanted to talk about Cedric 
now, while kissing couples surrounded them and a 
cherub floated over their heads. 

Cho’s voice was rather higher when she spoke again. 



Page | 715Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ve been meaning to ask you for ages... Did Cedric — 
did he m-m-mention me at all before he died?” 

This was the very last subject on earth Harry wanted 
to discuss, and least of all with Cho. 

“Well — no — ” he said quietly. “There — there wasn’t 
time for him to say anything. Erm ... so ... d’you ... 
d’you get to see a lot of Quidditch in the holidays? 

You support the Tornados, right?” 

His voice sounded falsely bright and cheery. To his 
horror, he saw that her eyes were swimming with 
tears again, just as they had been after the last D.A. 
meeting before Christmas. 

“Look,” he said desperately, leaning in so that nobody 
else could overhear, “let’s not talk about Cedric right 
now... Let’s talk about something else...” 

But this, apparently, was quite the wrong thing to 
say. 

“I thought,” she said, tears spattering down onto the 
table. “I thought you’d u-u-understand! I need to talk 
about it! Surely you n-need to talk about it t-too! I 
mean, you saw it happen, d-didn’t you?” 

Everything was going nightmarishly wrong; Roger 
Davies’ girlfriend had even unglued herself to look 
around at Cho crying. 

“Well — I have talked about it,” Harry said in a 
whisper, “to Ron and Hermione, but — ” 

“Oh, you’ll talk to Hermione Granger!” she said 
shrilly, her face now shining with tears, and several 
more kissing couples broke apart to stare. “But you 
won’t talk to me! P-perhaps it would be best if we just 

Page | 716Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




... just p-paid and you went and met up with 
Hermione G-Granger, like you obviously want to!” 

Harry stared at her, utterly bewildered, as she seized 
a frilly napkin and dabbed at her shining face with it. 

“Cho?” he said weakly, wishing Roger would seize his 
girlfriend and start kissing her again to stop her 
goggling at him and Cho. 

“Go on, leave!” she said, now crying into the napkin. 

“I don’t know why you asked me out in the first place 
if you’re going to make arrangements to meet other 
girls right after me... How many are you meeting after 
Hermione?” 

“It’s not like that!” said Harry, and he was so relieved 
at finally understanding what she was annoyed about 
that he laughed, which he realized a split second too 
late was a mistake. 

Cho sprang to her feet. The whole tearoom was quiet, 
and everybody was watching them now. 

“I’ll see you around, Harry,” she said dramatically, 
and hiccuping slightly she dashed to the door, 
wrenched it open, and hurried off into the pouring 
rain. 

“Cho!” Harry called after her, but the door had 
already swung shut behind her with a tuneful tinkle. 

There was total silence within the tea shop. Every eye 
was upon Harry. He threw a Galleon down onto the 
table, shook pink confetti out of his eyes, and 
