dead, but he could not see any of the people he loved, 
no hint of Hermione, Ron, Ginny, or any of the other 
Weasleys, no Luna. He felt he would have given all the 
time remaining to him for just one last look at them; 
but then, would he ever have the strength to stop 
looking? It was better like this. 

He moved down the steps and out into the darkness. 

It was nearly four in the morning, and the deathly 
stillness of the grounds felt as though they were 
holding their breath, waiting to see whether he could 
do what he must. 

Harry moved toward Neville, who was bending over 
another body. 

“Neville.” 

“Blimey, Harry, you nearly gave me heart failure!” 

Harry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to 
him out of nowhere, born out of a desire to make 
absolutely sure. 

“Where are you going, alone?” Neville asked 
suspiciously. 

“It’s all part of the plan,” said Harry. “There’s 
something I’ve got to do. Listen — Neville — ” 



Page | 787 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry!” Neville looked suddenly scared. “Harry, 
you’re not thinking of handing yourself over?” 



“No,” Harry lied easily. “ ’Course not ... this is 
something else. But I might be out of sight for a while. 
You know Voldemort’s snake, Neville? He’s got a huge 
snake. ... Calls it Nagini ...” 

“I’ve heard, yeah. ... What about it?” 

“It’s got to be killed. Ron and Hermione know that, 
but just in case they — ” 

The awfulness of that possibility smothered him for a 
moment, made it impossible to keep talking. But he 
pulled himself together again: This was crucial, he 
must be like Dumbledore, keep a cool head, make 
sure there were backups, others to carry on. 
Dumbledore had died knowing that three people still 
knew about the Horcruxes; now Neville would take 
Harry’s place: There would still be three in the secret. 

“Just in case they’re — busy — and you get the 
chance — ” 

“Kill the snake?” 

“Kill the snake,” Harry repeated. 

“All right, Harry. You’re okay, are you?” 

“I’m fine. Thanks, Neville.” 

But Neville seized his wrist as Harry made to move 
on. 

“We’re all going to keep fighting, Harry. You know 
that?” 

Page | 788 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, I — ” 



The suffocating feeling extinguished the end of the 
sentence; he could not go on. Neville did not seem to 
find it strange. He patted Harry on the shoulder, 
released him, and walked away to look for more 
bodies. 

Harry swung the Cloak back over himself and walked 
on. Someone else was moving not far away, stooping 
over another prone figure on the ground. He was feet 
away from her when he realized it was Ginny. 

He stopped in his tracks. She was crouching over a 
girl who was whispering for her mother. 

“It’s all right,” Ginny was saying. “It’s okay. We’re 
going to get you inside.” 

“But I want to go home,” whispered the girl. “I don’t 
want to fight anymore!” 

“I know,” said Ginny, and her voice broke. “It’s going 
to be all right.” 

Ripples of cold undulated over Harry’s skin. He 
wanted to shout out to the night, he wanted Ginny to 
know that he was there, he wanted her to know where 
he was going. He wanted to be stopped, to be dragged 
back, to be sent back home. ... 

But he was home. Hogwarts was the first and best 
home he had known. He and Voldemort and Snape, 
the abandoned boys, had all found home here. ... 

Ginny was kneeling beside the injured girl now, 
holding her hand. With a huge effort Harry forced 
himself on. He thought he saw Ginny look around as 
he passed, and wondered whether she had sensed 

Page | 789 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




someone walking nearby, but he did not speak, and 
he did not look back. 

Hagrid’s hut loomed out of the darkness. There were 
no lights, no sound of Fang scrabbling at the door, 
his bark booming in welcome. All those visits to 
Hagrid, and the gleam of the copper kettle on the fire, 
and rock cakes and giant grubs, and his great 
bearded face, and Ron vomiting slugs, and Hermione 
helping him save Norbert ... 

He moved on, and now he reached the edge of the 
forest, and he stopped. 

A swarm of dementors was gliding amongst the trees; 
he could feel their chill, and he was not sure he would 
be able to pass safely through it. He had no strength 
left for a Patronus. He could no longer control his own 
trembling. It was not, after all, so easy to die. Every 
second he breathed, the smell of the grass, the cool 
air on his face, was so precious: To think that people 
had years and years, time to waste, so much time it 
dragged, and he was clinging to each second. At the 
same time he thought that he would not be able to go 
on, and knew that he must. The long game was 
ended, the Snitch had been caught, it was time to 
leave the air. ... 

The Snitch. His nerveless fingers fumbled for a 
moment with the pouch at his neck and he pulled it 
out. 

I open at the close. 

Breathing fast and hard, he stared down at it. Now 
that he wanted time to move as slowly as possible, it 
seemed to have sped up, and understanding was 
coming so fast it seemed to have bypassed thought. 
This was the close. This was the moment. 

Page | 790 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He pressed the golden metal to his lips and 
whispered, “I am about to die.” 

The metal shell broke open. He lowered his shaking 
hand, raised Draco’s wand beneath the Cloak, and 
murmured, “Lumos.” 

The black stone with its jagged crack running down 
the center sat in the two halves of the Snitch. The 
Resurrection Stone had cracked down the vertical line 
representing the Elder Wand. The triangle and circle 
representing the Cloak and the stone were still 
discernible. 

And again Harry understood without having to think. 
It did not matter about bringing them back, for he 
was about to join them. He was not really fetching 
them: They were fetching him. 

He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his 
hand three times. 

He knew it had happened, because he heard slight 
movements around him that suggested frail bodies 
shifting their footing on the earthy, twig- strewn 
ground that marked the outer edge of the forest. He 
opened his eyes and looked around. 

They were neither ghost nor truly flesh, he could see 
that. They resembled most closely the Riddle that had 
escaped from the diary so long ago, and he had been 
memory made nearly solid. Less substantial than 
living bodies, but much more than ghosts, they 
moved toward him, and on each face, there was the 
same loving smile. 

James was exactly the same height as Harry. He was 
wearing the clothes in which he had died, and his 



Page | 791 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




hair was untidy and ruffled, and his glasses were a 
little lopsided, like Mr. Weasley’s. 

Sirius was tall and handsome, and younger by far 
than Harry had seen him in life. He loped with an 
easy grace, his hands in his pockets and a grin on his 
face. 

Lupin was younger too, and much less shabby, and 
his hair was thicker and darker. He looked happy to 
be back in this familiar place, scene of so many 
adolescent wanderings. 

Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long 
hair back as she drew close to him, and her green 
eyes, so like his, searched his face hungrily, as 
though she would never be able to look at him 
enough. 

“You’ve been so brave.” 

He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her, and he 
thought that he would like to stand and look at her 
forever, and that would be enough. 

“You are nearly there,” said James. “Very close. We 
are ... so proud of you.” 

“Does it hurt?” 

The childish question had fallen from Harry’s lips 
before he could stop it. 

“Dying? Not at all,” said Sirius. “Quicker and easier 
than falling asleep.” 

“And he will want it to be quick. He wants it over,” 
said Lupin. 



Page | 792 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I didn’t want you to die,” Harry said. These words 
came without his volition. “Any of you. I’m sorry — ” 



He addressed Lupin more than any of them, 
beseeching him. 

“ — right after you’d had your son ... Remus, I’m sorry 



“I am sorry too,” said Lupin. “Sorry I will never know 
him . . . but he will know why I died and I hope he will 
understand. I was trying to make a world in which he 
could live a happier life.” 

A chilly breeze that seemed to emanate from the heart 
of the forest lifted the hair at Harry’s brow. He knew 
that they would not tell him to go, that it would have 
to be his decision. 

“You’ll stay with me?” 

“Until the very end,” said James. 

“They won’t be able to see you?” asked Harry. 

“We are part of you,” said Sirius. “Invisible to anyone 
else.” 

Harry looked at his mother. 

“Stay close to me,” he said quietly. 

And he set off. The dementors’ chill did not overcome 
him; he passed through it with his companions, and 
they acted like Patronuses to him, and together they 
marched through the old trees that grew closely 
together, their branches tangled, their roots gnarled 
and twisted underfoot. Harry clutched the Cloak 
tightly around him in the darkness, traveling deeper 
Page | 793 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




and deeper into the forest, with no idea where exactly 
Voldemort was, but sure that he would find him. 
Beside him, making scarcely a sound, walked James, 
Sirius, Lupin, and Lily, and their presence was his 
courage, and the reason he was able to keep putting 
one foot in front of the other. 

His body and mind felt oddly disconnected now, his 
limbs working without conscious instruction, as if he 
were passenger, not driver, in the body he was about 
to leave. The dead who walked beside him through 
the forest were much more real to him now than the 
living back at the castle: Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and 
all the others were the ones who felt like ghosts as he 
stumbled and slipped toward the end of his life, 
toward Voldemort. ... 

A thud and a whisper: Some other living creature had 
stirred close by. Harry stopped under the Cloak, 
peering around, listening, and his mother and father, 
Lupin and Sirius stopped too. 

“Someone there,” came a rough whisper close at 
hand. “He’s got an Invisibility Cloak. Could it be — ?” 

Two figures emerged from behind a nearby tree: Their 
wands flared, and Harry saw Yaxley and Dolohov 
peering into the darkness, directly at the place Harry, 
his mother and father and Sirius and Lupin stood. 
Apparently they could not see anything. 

“Definitely heard something,” said Yaxley. “Animal, 
d’you reckon?” 

“That head case Hagrid kept a whole bunch of stuff in 
here,” said Dolohov, glancing over his shoulder. 

Yaxley looked down at his watch. 



Page | 794 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Time’s nearly up. Potter’s had his hour. He’s not 
coming.” 

“And he was sure he’d come! He won’t be happy.” 

“Better go back,” said Yaxley. “Find out what the plan 
is now.” 

He and Dolohov turned and walked deeper into the 
forest. Harry followed them, knowing that they would 
lead him exactly where he wanted to go. He glanced 
sideways, and his mother smiled at him, and his 
father nodded encouragement. 

They had traveled on mere minutes when Harry saw 
light ahead, and Yaxley and Dolohov stepped out into 
a clearing that Harry knew had been the place where 
the monstrous Aragog had once lived. The remnants 
of his vast web were there still, but the swarm of 
descendants he had spawned had been driven out by 
the Death Eaters, to fight for their cause. 

A fire burned in the middle of the clearing, and its 
flickering light fell over a crowd of completely silent, 
watchful Death Eaters. Some of them were still 
masked and hooded; others showed their faces. Two 
giants sat on the outskirts of the group, casting 
massive shadows over the scene, their faces cruel, 
rough-hewn like rock. Harry saw Fenrir, skulking, 
chewing his long nails; the great blond Rowle was 
dabbing at his bleeding lip. He saw Lucius Malfoy, 
who looked defeated and terrified, and Narcissa, 
whose eyes were sunken and full of apprehension. 

Every eye was fixed upon Voldemort, who stood with 
his head bowed, and his white hands folded over the 
Elder Wand in front of him. He might have been 
praying, or else counting silently in his mind, and 
Harry, standing still on the edge of the scene, thought 
Page | 795 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




absurdly of a child counting in a game of hide-and- 
seek. Behind his head, still swirling and coiling, the 
great snake Nagini floated in her glittering, charmed 
cage, like a monstrous halo. 

When Dolohov and Yaxley rejoined the circle, 
Voldemort looked up. 

“No sign of him, my Lord,” said Dolohov. 

Voldemort ’s expression did not change. The red eyes 
seemed to burn in the firelight. Slowly he drew the 
Elder Wand between his long fingers. 

“My Lord — ” 

Bellatrix had spoken: She sat closest to Voldemort, 
disheveled, her face a little bloody but otherwise 
unharmed. 

Voldemort raised his hand to silence her, and she did 
not speak another word, but eyed him in worshipful 
fascination. 

“I thought he would come,” said Voldemort in his 
high, clear voice, his eyes on the leaping flames. “I 
expected him to come.” 

Nobody spoke. They seemed as scared as Harry, 
whose heart was now throwing itself against his ribs 
as though determined to escape the body he was 
about to cast aside. His hands were sweating as he 
pulled off the Invisibility Cloak and stuffed it beneath 
his robes, with his wand. He did not want to be 
tempted to fight. 

“I was, it seems ... mistaken,” said Voldemort. 

“You weren’t.” 

Page | 796 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry said it as loudly as he could, with all the force 
he could muster: He did not want to sound afraid. 

The Resurrection Stone slipped from between his 
numb fingers, and out of the corner of his eyes he 
saw his parents, Sirius, and Lupin vanish as he 
stepped forward into the firelight. At that moment he 
felt that nobody mattered but Voldemort. It was just 
the two of them. 

The illusion was gone as soon as it had come. The 
giants roared as the Death Eaters rose together, and 
there were many cries, gasps, even laughter. 
Voldemort had frozen where he stood, but his red 
eyes had found Harry, and he stared as Harry moved 
toward him, with nothing but the fire between them. 

Then a voice yelled: “HARRY! NO!” 

He turned: Hagrid was bound and trussed, tied to a 
tree nearby. His massive body shook the branches 
overhead as he struggled, desperate. 

“NO! NO! HARRY, WHAT’RE YEH — ?” 

“QUIET!” shouted Rowle, and with a flick of his wand 
Hagrid was silenced. 

Bellatrix, who had leapt to her feet, was looking 
eagerly from Voldemort to Harry, her breast heaving. 
The only things that moved were the flames and the 
snake, coiling and uncoiling in the glittering cage 
behind Voldemort’s head. 

Harry could feel his wand against his chest, but he 
made no attempt to draw it. He knew that the snake 
was too well protected, knew that if he managed to 
point the wand at Nagini, fifty curses would hit him 
first. And still, Voldemort and Harry looked at each 
other, and now Voldemort tilted his head a little to 
Page | 797 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the side, considering the boy standing before him, 
and a singularly mirthless smile curled the lipless 
mouth. 

“Harry Potter,” he said very softly. His voice might 
have been part of the spitting fire. “The Boy Who 
Lived.” 

None of the Death Eaters moved. They were waiting: 
Everything was waiting. Hagrid was struggling, and 
Bellatrix was panting, and Harry thought inexplicably 
of Ginny, and her blazing look, and the feel of her lips 
on his — 

Voldemort had raised his wand. His head was still 
tilted to one side, like a curious child, wondering what 
would happen if he proceeded. Harry looked back into 
the red eyes, and wanted it to happen now, quickly, 
while he could still stand, before he lost control, 
before he betrayed fear — 

He saw the mouth move and a flash of green light, 
and everything was gone. 



Page | 798 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






KING’S CROSS 

He lay facedown, listening to the silence. He was 
perfectly alone. Nobody was watching. Nobody else 
was there. He was not perfectly sure that he was 
there himself. 

A long time later, or maybe no time at all, it came to 
him that he must exist, must be more than 
disembodied thought, because he was lying, definitely 
lying, on some surface. Therefore he had a sense of 
touch, and the thing against which he lay existed too. 

Almost as soon as he had reached this conclusion, 
Harry became conscious that he was naked. 
Convinced as he was of his total solitude, this did not 
concern him, but it did intrigue him slightly. He 
wondered whether, as he could feel, he would be able 
to see. In opening them, he discovered that he had 
eyes. 

He lay in a bright mist, though it was not like mist he 
had ever experienced before. His surroundings were 
not hidden by cloudy vapor; rather the cloudy vapor 

Page | 799 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



had not yet formed into surroundings. The floor on 
which he lay seemed to be white, neither warm nor 
cold, but simply there, a flat, blank something on 
which to be. 

He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched 
his face. He was not wearing glasses anymore. 

Then a noise reached him through the unformed 
nothingness that surrounded him: the small soft 
thumpings of something that flapped, flailed, and 
struggled. It was a pitiful noise, yet also slightly 
indecent. He had the uncomfortable feeling that he 
was eavesdropping on something furtive, shameful. 

For the first time, he wished he were clothed. 

Barely had the wish formed in his head than robes 
appeared a short distance away. He took them and 
pulled them on: They were soft, clean, and warm. It 
was extraordinary how they had appeared, just like 
that, the moment he had wanted them. ... 

He stood up, looking around. Was he in some great 
Room of Requirement? The longer he looked, the more 
there was to see. A great domed glass roof glittered 
high above him in sunlight. Perhaps it was a palace. 
All was hushed and still, except for those odd 
thumping and whimpering noises coming from 
somewhere close by in the mist. ... 

Harry turned slowly on the spot, and his 
surroundings seemed to invent themselves before his 
eyes. A wide-open space, bright and clean, a hall 
larger by far than the Great Hall, with that clear, 
domed glass ceiling. It was quite empty. He was the 
only person there, except for — 



Page | 800 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He recoiled. He had spotted the thing that was 
making the noises. It had the form of a small, naked 
child, curled on the ground, its skin raw and rough, 
flayed-looking, and it lay shuddering under a seat 
where it had been left, unwanted, stuffed out of sight, 
struggling for breath. 

He was afraid of it. Small and fragile and wounded 
though it was, he did not want to approach it. 
Nevertheless he drew slowly nearer, ready to jump 
back at any moment. Soon he stood near enough to 
touch it, yet he could not bring himself to do it. He 
felt like a coward. He ought to comfort it, but it 
repulsed him. 

“You cannot help.” 

He spun around. Albus Dumbledore was walking 
toward him, sprightly and upright, wearing sweeping 
robes of midnight blue. 

“Harry.” He spread his arms wide, and his hands were 
both whole and white and undamaged. “You 
wonderful boy. You brave, brave man. Let us walk.” 

Stunned, Harry followed as Dumbledore strode away 
from where the flayed child lay whimpering, leading 
him to two seats that Harry had not previously 
noticed, set some distance away under that high, 
sparkling ceiling. Dumbledore sat down in one of 
them, and Harry fell into the other, staring at his old 
headmaster’s face. Dumbledore ’s long silver hair and 
beard, the piercingly blue eyes behind half-moon 
spectacles, the crooked nose: Everything was as he 
had remembered it. And yet... 

“But you’re dead,” said Harry. 

“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore matter-of-factly. 

Page | 801 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Then ... I’m dead too?” 



“Ah,” said Dumbledore, smiling still more broadly. 
“That is the question, isn’t it? On the whole, dear boy, 
I think not.” 

They looked at each other, the old man still beaming. 
“Not?” repeated Harry. 

“Not,” said Dumbledore. 

“But ...” Harry raised his hand instinctively toward 
the lightning scar. It did not seem to be there. “But I 
should have died — I didn’t defend myself! I meant to 
let him kill me!” 

“And that,” said Dumbledore, “will, I think, have 
made all the difference.” 

Happiness seemed to radiate from Dumbledore like 
light, like fire: Harry had never seen the man so 
utterly, so palpably content. 

“Explain,” said Harry. 

“But you already know,” said Dumbledore. He 
twiddled his thumbs together. 

“I let him kill me,” said Harry. “Didn’t I?” 

“You did,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Go on!” 

“So the part of his soul that was in me ...” 

Dumbledore nodded still more enthusiastically, 
urging Harry onward, a broad smile of encouragement 
on his face. 



Page | 802 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




"... has it gone?” 



“Oh yes!” said Dumbledore. “Yes, he destroyed it. 

Your soul is whole, and completely your own, Harry.” 

“But then ...” 

Harry glanced over his shoulder to where the small, 
maimed creature trembled under the chair. 

“What is that, Professor?” 

“Something that is beyond either of our help,” said 
Dumbledore. 

“But if Voldemort used the Killing Curse,” Harry 
started again, “and nobody died for me this time — 
how can I be alive?” 

“I think you know,” said Dumbledore. “Think back. 
Remember what he did, in his ignorance, in his greed 
and his cruelty.” 

Harry thought. He let his gaze drift over his 
surroundings. If it was indeed a palace in which they 
sat, it was an odd one, with chairs set in little rows 
and bits of railing here and there, and still, he and 
Dumbledore and the stunted creature under the chair 
were the only beings there. Then the answer rose to 
his lips easily, without effort. 

“He took my blood,” said Harry. 

“Precisely!” said Dumbledore. “He took your blood and 
rebuilt his living body with it! Your blood in his veins, 
Harry, Lily’s protection inside both of you! He tethered 
you to life while he lives!” 



Page | 803 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I live . . . while he lives? But I thought ... I thought it 
was the other way round! I thought we both had to 
die? Or is it the same thing?” 

He was distracted by the whimpering and thumping 
of the agonized creature behind them and glanced 
back at it yet again. 

“Are you sure we can’t do anything?” 

“There is no help possible.” 

“Then explain ... more,” said Harry, and Dumbledore 
smiled. 

“You were the seventh Horcrux, Harry, the Horcrux 
he never meant to make. He had rendered his soul so 
unstable that it broke apart when he committed those 
acts of unspeakable evil, the murder of your parents, 
the attempted killing of a child. But what escaped 
from that room was even less than he knew. He left 
more than his body behind. He left part of himself 
latched to you, the would-be victim who had survived. 

“And his knowledge remained woefully incomplete, 
Harry! That which Voldemort does not value, he takes 
no trouble to comprehend. Of house-elves and 
children’s tales, of love, loyalty, and innocence, 
Voldemort knows and understands nothing. Nothing. 
That they all have a power beyond his own, a power 
beyond the reach of any magic, is a truth he has 
never grasped. 

“He took your blood believing it would strengthen 
him. He took into his body a tiny part of the 
enchantment your mother laid upon you when she 
died for you. His body keeps her sacrifice alive, and 
while that enchantment survives, so do you and so 
does Voldemort’s one last hope for himself.” 

Page | 804 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore smiled at Harry, and Harry stared at 
him. 



“And you knew this? You knew — all along?” 

“I guessed. But my guesses have usually been good,” 
said Dumbledore happily, and they sat in silence for 
what seemed like a long time, while the creature 
behind them continued to whimper and tremble. 

“There’s more,” said Harry. “There’s more to it. Why 
did my wand break the wand he borrowed?” 

“As to that, I cannot be sure.” 

“Have a guess, then,” said Harry, and Dumbledore 
laughed. 

“What you must understand, Harry, is that you and 
Lord Voldemort have journeyed together into realms 
of magic hitherto unknown and untested. But here is 
what I think happened, and it is unprecedented, and 
no wandmaker could, I think, ever have predicted it 
or explained it to Voldemort. 

“Without meaning to, as you now know, Lord 
Voldemort doubled the bond between you when he 
returned to a human form. A part of his soul was still 
attached to yours, and, thinking to strengthen 
himself, he took a part of your mother’s sacrifice into 
himself. If he could only have understood the precise 
and terrible power of that sacrifice, he would not, 
perhaps, have dared to touch your blood. ... But then, 
if he had been able to understand, he could not be 
Lord Voldemort, and might never have murdered at 
all. 

“Having ensured this two-fold connection, having 
wrapped your destinies together more securely than 

Page | 805 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




ever two wizards were joined in history, Voldemort 
proceeded to attack you with a wand that shared a 
core with yours. And now something very strange 
happened, as we know. The cores reacted in a way 
that Lord Voldemort, who never knew that your wand 
was twin of his, had never expected. 

“He was more afraid than you were that night, Harry. 
You had accepted, even embraced, the possibility of 
death, something Lord Voldemort has never been able 
to do. Your courage won, your wand overpowered his. 
And in doing so, something happened between those 
wands, something that echoed the relationship 
between their masters. 

“I believe that your wand imbibed some of the power 
and qualities of Voldemort’s wand that night, which is 
to say that it contained a little of Voldemort himself. 
So your wand recognized him when he pursued you, 
recognized a man who was both kin and mortal 
enemy, and it regurgitated some of his own magic 
against him, magic much more powerful than 
anything Lucius’s wand had ever performed. Your 
wand now contained the power of your enormous 
courage and of Voldemort’s own deadly skill: What 
chance did that poor stick of Lucius Malfoy’s stand?” 

“But if my wand was so powerful, how come 
Hermione was able to break it?” asked Harry. 

“My dear boy, its remarkable effects were directed 
only at Voldemort, who had tampered so ill-advisedly 
with the deepest laws of magic. Only toward him was 
that wand abnormally powerful. Otherwise it was a 
wand like any other ... though a good one, I am sure,” 
Dumbledore finished kindly. 



Page | 806 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry sat in thought for a long time, or perhaps 
seconds. It was very hard to be sure of things like 
time, here. 

“He killed me with your wand.” 

“He failed to kill you with my wand,” Dumbledore 
corrected Harry. “I think we can agree that you are 
not dead — though, of course,” he added, as if fearing 
he had been discourteous, “I do not minimize your 
sufferings, which I am sure were severe.” 

“I feel great at the moment, though,” said Harry, 
looking down at his clean, unblemished hands. 
“Where are we, exactly?” 

“Well, I was going to ask you that,” said Dumbledore, 
looking around. “Where would you say that we are?” 

Until Dumbledore had asked, Harry had not known. 
Now, however, he found that he had an answer ready 
to give. 

“It looks,” he said slowly, “like King’s Cross station. 
Except a lot cleaner and empty, and there are no 
trains as far as I can see.” 

“King’s Cross station!” Dumbledore was chuckling 
immoderately. “Good gracious, really?” 

“Well, where do you think we are?” asked Harry, a 
little defensively. 

“My dear boy, I have no idea. This is, as they say, 
your party.” 

Harry had no idea what this meant; Dumbledore was 
being infuriating. He glared at him, then remembered 



Page | 807 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




a much more pressing question than that of their 
current location. 

“The Deathly Hallows,” he said, and he was glad to 
see that the words wiped the smile from 
Dumbledore’s face. 

“Ah, yes,” he said. He even looked a little worried. 
“Well?” 

For the first time since Harry had met Dumbledore, 
he looked less than an old man, much less. He looked 
fleetingly like a small boy caught in wrongdoing. 

“Can you forgive me?” he said. “Can you forgive me 
for not trusting you? For not telling you? Harry, I only 
feared that you would fail as I had failed. I only 
dreaded that you would make my mistakes. I crave 
your pardon, Harry. I have known, for some time now, 
that you are the better man.” 

“What are you talking about?” asked Harry, startled 
by Dumbledore’s tone, by the sudden tears in his 
eyes. 

“The Hallows, the Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore. 
“A desperate man’s dream!” 

“But they’re real!” 

“Real, and dangerous, and a lure for fools,” said 
Dumbledore. “And I was such a fool. But you know, 
don’t you? I have no secrets from you anymore. You 
know.” 

“What do I know?” 



Page | 808 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore turned his whole body to face Harry, and 
tears still sparkled in the brilliantly blue eyes. 



“Master of death, Harry, master of Death! Was I 
better, ultimately, than Voldemort?” 

“Of course you were,” said Harry. “Of course — how 
can you ask that? You never killed if you could avoid 
it!” 



“True, true,” said Dumbledore, and he was like a 
child seeking reassurance. “Yet I too sought a way to 
conquer death, Harry.” 

“Not the way he did,” said Harry. After all his anger at 
Dumbledore, how odd it was to sit here, beneath the 
high, vaulted ceiling, and defend Dumbledore from 
himself. “Hallows, not Horcruxes.” 

“Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore, “not Horcruxes. 
Precisely.” 

There was a pause. The creature behind them 
whimpered, but Harry no longer looked around. 

“Grindelwald was looking for them too?” he asked. 

Dumbledore closed his eyes for a moment and 
