



But Harry was sure it was the same sort of “no” that 
he himself had given Dumbledore. 

Dippet sank back, looking faintly disappointed. 

“You may go, Tom. ...” 

Riddle slid off his chair and slouched out of the room. 
Harry followed him. 

Down the moving spiral staircase they went, emerging 
next to the gargoyle in the darkening corridor. Riddle 
stopped, and so did Harry, watching him. Harry could 
tell that Riddle was doing some serious thinking. He 
was biting his lip, his forehead furrowed. 

Then, as though he had suddenly reached a decision, 
he hurried off, Harry gliding noiselessly behind him. 
They didn’t see another person until they reached the 
entrance hall, when a tall wizard with long, sweeping 
auburn hair and a beard called to Riddle from the 
marble staircase. 

“What are you doing, wandering around this late, 
Tom?” 

Harry gaped at the wizard. He was none other than a 
fifty-year-younger Dumbledore. 

“I had to see the headmaster, sir,” said Riddle. 

“Well, hurry off to bed,” said Dumbledore, giving 
Riddle exactly the kind of penetrating stare Harry 
knew so well. “Best not to roam the corridors these 
days. Not since ...” 

He sighed heavily, bade Riddle good night, and strode 
off. Riddle watched him walk out of sight and then, 



Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




moving quickly, headed straight down the stone steps 
to the dungeons, with Harry in hot pursuit. 

But to Harry’s disappointment, Riddle led him not 
into a hidden passageway or a secret tunnel but to 
the very dungeon in which Harry had Potions with 
Snape. The torches hadn’t been lit, and when Riddle 
pushed the door almost closed, Harry could only just 
see him, standing stock-still by the door, watching 
the passage outside. 

It felt to Harry that they were there for at least an 
hour. All he could see was the figure of Riddle at the 
door, staring through the crack, waiting like a statue. 
And just when Harry had stopped feeling expectant 
and tense and started wishing he could return to the 
present, he heard something move beyond the door. 

Someone was creeping along the passage. He heard 
whoever it was pass the dungeon where he and Riddle 
were hidden. Riddle, quiet as a shadow, edged 
through the door and followed, Harry tiptoeing behind 
him, forgetting that he couldn’t be heard. 

For perhaps five minutes they followed the footsteps, 
until Riddle stopped suddenly, his head inclined in 
the direction of new noises. Harry heard a door creak 
open, and then someone speaking in a hoarse 
whisper. 

“C’mon ... gotta get yeh outta here. ... C’mon now ... 
in the box ...” 

There was something familiar about that voice. ... 

Riddle suddenly jumped around the corner. Harry 
stepped out behind him. He could see the dark 
outline of a huge boy who was crouching in front of 
an open door, a very large box next to it. 

Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“ ’Evening, Rubeus,” said Riddle sharply. 

The boy slammed the door shut and stood up. 

“What yer doin’ down here, Tom?” 

Riddle stepped closer. 

“It’s all over,” he said. “I’m going to have to turn you 
in, Rubeus. They’re talking about closing Hogwarts if 
the attacks don’t stop.” 

“What d’yeh — ” 

“I don’t think you meant to kill anyone. But monsters 
don’t make good pets. I suppose you just let it out for 
exercise and — ” 

“It never killed no one!” said the large boy, backing 
against the closed door. From behind him, Harry 
could hear a funny rustling and clicking. 

“Come on, Rubeus,” said Riddle, moving yet closer. 
“The dead girl’s parents will be here tomorrow. The 
least Hogwarts can do is make sure that the thing 
that killed their daughter is slaughtered. ...” 

“It wasn’t him!” roared the boy, his voice echoing in 
the dark passage. “He wouldn’! He never!” 

“Stand aside,” said Riddle, drawing out his wand. 

His spell lit the corridor with a sudden flaming light. 
The door behind the large boy flew open with such 
force it knocked him into the wall opposite. And out of 
it came something that made Harry let out a long, 
piercing scream unheard by anyone — 



Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




A vast, low-slung, hairy body and a tangle of black 
legs; a gleam of many eyes and a pair of razor-sharp 
pincers — Riddle raised his wand again, but he was 
too late. The thing bowled him over as it scuttled 
away, tearing up the corridor and out of sight. Riddle 
scrambled to his feet, looking after it; he raised his 
wand, but the huge boy leapt on him, seized his 
wand, and threw him back down, yelling, 
“NOOOOOOO!” 

The scene whirled, the darkness became complete; 
Harry felt himself falling and, with a crash, he landed 
spread-eagled on his four-poster in the Gryffindor 
dormitory, Riddle’s diary lying open on his stomach. 

Before he had had time to regain his breath, the 
dormitory door opened and Ron came in. 

“There you are,” he said. 

Harry sat up. He was sweating and shaking. 

“What’s up?” said Ron, looking at him with concern. 

“It was Hagrid, Ron. Hagrid opened the Chamber of 
Secrets fifty years ago.” 



Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






CORNELIUS FUDGE 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione had always known that 
Hagrid had an unfortunate liking for large and 
monstrous creatures. During their first year at 
Hogwarts he had tried to raise a dragon in his little 
wooden house, and it would be a long time before 
they forgot the giant, three-headed dog he’d 
christened “Fluffy.” And if, as a boy, Hagrid had heard 
that a monster was hidden somewhere in the castle, 
Harry was sure he’d have gone to any lengths for a 
glimpse of it. He’d probably thought it was a shame 
that the monster had been cooped up so long, and 
thought it deserved the chance to stretch its many 
legs; Harry could just imagine the thirteen-year-old 
Hagrid trying to fit a leash and collar on it. But he 
was equally certain that Hagrid would never have 
meant to kill anybody. 

Harry half wished he hadn’t found out how to work 
Riddle’s diary. Again and again Ron and Hermione 
made him recount what he’d seen, until he was 
heartily sick of telling them and sick of the long, 
circular conversations that followed. 

Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



“Riddle might have got the wrong person,” said 
Hermione. “Maybe it was some other monster that 
was attacking people. ...” 

“How many monsters d’you think this place can 
hold?” Ron asked dully. 

“We always knew Hagrid had been expelled,” said 
Harry miserably. “And the attacks must’ve stopped 
after Hagrid was kicked out. Otherwise, Riddle 
wouldn’t have got his award.” 

Ron tried a different tack. 

“Riddle does sound like Percy — who asked him to 
squeal on Hagrid, anyway?” 

“But the monster had killed someone, Ron,” said 
Hermione. 

“And Riddle was going to go back to some Muggle 
orphanage if they closed Hogwarts,” said Harry. “I 
don’t blame him for wanting to stay here. ...” 

“You met Hagrid down Knockturn Alley, didn’t you, 
Harry?” 

“He was buying a Flesh-Eating Slug Repellent,” said 
Harry quickly. 

The three of them fell silent. After a long pause, 
Hermione voiced the knottiest question of all in a 
hesitant voice. 

“Do you think we should go and ask Hagrid about it 
all?” 



Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“That’d be a cheerful visit,” said Ron. “ ‘Hello, Hagrid. 
Tell us, have you been setting anything mad and 
hairy loose in the castle lately?’ ” 

In the end, they decided that they would not say 
anything to Hagrid unless there was another attack, 
and as more and more days went by with no whisper 
from the disembodied voice, they became hopeful that 
they would never need to talk to him about why he 
had been expelled. It was now nearly four months 
since Justin and Nearly Headless Nick had been 
Petrified, and nearly everybody seemed to think that 
the attacker, whoever it was, had retired for good. 
Peeves had finally got bored of his “Oh, Potter, you 
rotter” song, Ernie Macmillan asked Harry quite 
politely to pass a bucket of leaping toadstools in 
Herbology one day, and in March several of the 
Mandrakes threw a loud and raucous party in 
greenhouse three. This made Professor Sprout very 
happy. 

“The moment they start trying to move into each 
other’s pots, we’ll know they’re fully mature,” she told 
Harry. “Then we’ll be able to revive those poor people 
in the hospital wing.” 

The second years were given something new to think 
about during their Easter holidays. The time had 
come to choose their subjects for the third year, a 
matter that Hermione, at least, took very seriously. 

“It could affect our whole future,” she told Harry and 
Ron as they pored over lists of new subjects, marking 
them with checks. 

“I just want to give up Potions,” said Harry. 



Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“We can’t,” said Ron gloomily. “We keep all our old 
subjects, or I’d’ve ditched Defense Against the Dark 
Arts.” 

“But that’s very important!” said Hermione, shocked. 

“Not the way Lockhart teaches it,” said Ron. “I haven’t 
learned anything from him except not to set pixies 
loose.” 

Neville Longbottom had been sent letters from all the 
witches and wizards in his family, all giving him 
different advice on what to choose. Confused and 
worried, he sat reading the subject lists with his 
tongue poking out, asking people whether they 
thought Arithmancy sounded more difficult than the 
study of Ancient Runes. Dean Thomas, who, like 
Harry, had grown up with Muggles, ended up closing 
his eyes and jabbing his wand at the list, then picking 
the subjects it landed on. Hermione took nobody’s 
advice but signed up for everything. 

Harry smiled grimly to himself at the thought of what 
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia would say if he tried 
to discuss his career in wizardry with them. Not that 
he didn’t get any guidance: Percy Weasley was eager 
to share his experience. 

“Depends where you want to go, Harry,” he said. “It’s 
never too early to think about the future, so I’d 
recommend Divination. People say Muggle Studies is 
a soft option, but I personally think wizards should 
have a thorough understanding of the non-magical 
community, particularly if they’re thinking of working 
in close contact with them — look at my father, he 
has to deal with Muggle business all the time. My 
brother Charlie was always more of an outdoor type, 
so he went for Care of Magical Creatures. Play to your 
strengths, Harry.” 

Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




But the only thing Harry felt he was really good at 
was Quidditch. In the end, he chose the same new 
subjects as Ron, feeling that if he was lousy at them, 
at least he’d have someone friendly to help him. 

Gryffindor’s next Quidditch match would be against 
Hufflepuff. Wood was insisting on team practices 
every night after dinner, so that Harry barely had 
time for anything but Quidditch and homework. 
However, the training sessions were getting better, or 
at least drier, and the evening before Saturday’s 
match he went up to his dormitory to drop off his 
broomstick feeling Gryffindor’s chances for the 
Quidditch Cup had never been better. 

But his cheerful mood didn’t last long. At the top of 
the stairs to the dormitory, he met Neville 
Longbottom, who was looking frantic. 

“Harry — I don’t know who did it — I just found — ” 

Watching Harry fearfully, Neville pushed open the 
door. 

The contents of Harry’s trunk had been thrown 
everywhere. His cloak lay ripped on the floor. The 
bedclothes had been pulled off his four-poster and the 
drawer had been pulled out of his bedside cabinet, 
the contents strewn over the mattress. 

Harry walked over to the bed, openmouthed, treading 
on a few loose pages of Travels with Trolls. As he and 
Neville pulled the blankets back onto his bed, Ron, 
Dean, and Seamus came in. Dean swore loudly. 

“What happened, Harry?” 

“No idea,” said Harry. But Ron was examining Harry’s 
robes. All the pockets were hanging out. 

Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Someone’s been looking for something,” said Ron. “Is 
there anything missing?” 

Harry started to pick up all his things and throw 
them into his trunk. It was only as he threw the last 
of the Lockhart books back into it that he realized 
what wasn’t there. 

“Riddle’s diary’s gone,” he said in an undertone to 
Ron. 

“What?” 

Harry jerked his head toward the dormitory door and 
Ron followed him out. They hurried down to the 
Gryffindor common room, which was half-empty, and 
joined Hermione, who was sitting alone, reading a 
book called Ancient Runes Made Easy. 

Hermione looked aghast at the news. 

“But — only a Gryffindor could have stolen — nobody 
else knows our password — ” 

“Exactly,” said Harry. 

They woke the next day to brilliant sunshine and a 
light, refreshing breeze. 

“Perfect Quidditch conditions!” said Wood 
enthusiastically at the Gryffindor table, loading the 
team’s plates with scrambled eggs. “Harry, buck up 
there, you need a decent breakfast.” 

Harry had been staring down the packed Gryffindor 
table, wondering if the new owner of Riddle’s diary 
was right in front of his eyes. Hermione had been 
urging him to report the robbery, but Harry didn’t like 
the idea. He’d have to tell a teacher all about the 
Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




diary, and how many people knew why Hagrid had 
been expelled fifty years ago? He didn’t want to be the 
one who brought it all up again. 

As he left the Great Hall with Ron and Hermione to go 
and collect his Quidditch things, another very serious 
worry was added to Harry’s growing list. He had just 
set foot on the marble staircase when he heard it yet 
again — 

“ Kill this time ... let me rip ... tear ...” 

He shouted aloud and Ron and Hermione both 
jumped away from him in alarm. 

“The voice!” said Harry, looking over his shoulder. “I 
just heard it again — didn’t you?” 

Ron shook his head, wide-eyed. Hermione, however, 
clapped a hand to her forehead. 

“Harry — I think I’ve just understood something! I’ve 
got to go to the library!” 

And she sprinted away, up the stairs. 

“ What does she understand?” said Harry distractedly, 
still looking around, trying to tell where the voice had 
come from. 

“Loads more than I do,” said Ron, shaking his head. 

“But why’s she got to go to the library?” 

“Because that’s what Hermione does,” said Ron, 
shrugging. “When in doubt, go to the library.” 

Harry stood, irresolute, trying to catch the voice 
again, but people were now emerging from the Great 

Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Hall behind him, talking loudly, exiting through the 
front doors on their way to the Quidditch pitch. 



“You’d better get moving,” said Ron. “It’s nearly eleven 
— the match — ” 

Harry raced up to Gryffindor Tower, collected his 
Nimbus Two Thousand, and joined the large crowd 
swarming across the grounds, but his mind was still 
in the castle along with the bodiless voice, and as he 
pulled on his scarlet robes in the locker room, his 
only comfort was that everyone was now outside to 
watch the game. 

The teams walked onto the field to tumultuous 
applause. Oliver Wood took off for a warm-up flight 
around the goal posts; Madam Hooch released the 
balls. The Hufflepuffs, who played in canary yellow, 
were standing in a huddle, having a last-minute 
discussion of tactics. 

Harry was just mounting his broom when Professor 
McGonagall came half marching, half running across 
the pitch, carrying an enormous purple megaphone. 

Harry’s heart dropped like a stone. 

“This match has been canceled,” Professor 
McGonagall called through the megaphone, 
addressing the packed stadium. There were boos and 
shouts. Oliver Wood, looking devastated, landed and 
ran toward Professor McGonagall without getting off 
his broomstick. 

“But, Professor!” he shouted. “We’ve got to play — the 
Cup — Gryffindor — ” 

Professor McGonagall ignored him and continued to 
shout through her megaphone: 

Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“All students are to make their way back to the House 
common rooms, where their Heads of Houses will give 
them further information. As quickly as you can, 
please!” 

Then she lowered the megaphone and beckoned 
Harry over to her. 

“Potter, I think you’d better come with me. ...” 

Wondering how she could possibly suspect him this 
time, Harry saw Ron detach himself from the 
complaining crowd; he came running up to them as 
they set off toward the castle. To Harry’s surprise, 
Professor McGonagall didn’t object. 

“Yes, perhaps you’d better come, too, Weasley. ...” 

Some of the students swarming around them were 
grumbling about the match being canceled; others 
looked worried. Harry and Ron followed Professor 
McGonagall back into the school and up the marble 
staircase. But they weren’t taken to anybody’s office 
this time. 

“This will be a bit of a shock,” said Professor 
McGonagall in a surprisingly gentle voice as they 
approached the infirmary. “There has been another 
attack ... another double attack.” 

Harry’s insides did a horrible somersault. Professor 
McGonagall pushed the door open and he and Ron 
entered. 

Madam Pomfrey was bending over a sixth-year girl 
with long, curly hair. Harry recognized her as the 
Ravenclaw they’d accidentally asked for directions to 
the Slytherin common room. And on the bed next to 
her was — 

Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“HermioneY’ Ron groaned. 

Hermione lay utterly still, her eyes open and glassy. 

“They were found near the library,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “I don’t suppose either of you can 
explain this? It was on the floor next to them. ...” 

She was holding up a small, circular mirror. 

Harry and Ron shook their heads, both staring at 
Hermione. 

“I will escort you back to Gryffindor Tower,” said 
Professor McGonagall heavily. “I need to address the 
students in any case.” 

“All students will return to their House common 
rooms by six o’clock in the evening. No student is to 
leave the dormitories after that time. You will be 
escorted to each lesson by a teacher. No student is to 
use the bathroom unaccompanied by a teacher. All 
further Quidditch training and matches are to be 
postponed. There will be no more evening activities.” 

The Gryffindors packed inside the common room 
listened to Professor McGonagall in silence. She rolled 
up the parchment from which she had been reading 
and said in a somewhat choked voice, “I need hardly 
add that I have rarely been so distressed. It is likely 
that the school will be closed unless the culprit 
behind these attacks is caught. I would urge anyone 
who thinks they might know anything about them to 
come forward.” 

She climbed somewhat awkwardly out of the portrait 
hole, and the Gryffindors began talking immediately. 



Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s two Gryffindors down, not counting a 
Gryffindor ghost, one Ravenclaw, and one Hufflepuff,” 
said the Weasley twins’ friend Lee Jordan, counting 
on his fingers. “Haven’t any of the teachers noticed 
that the Slytherins are all safe? Isn’t it obvious all this 
stuff’s coming from Slytherin? The Heir of Slytherin, 
the monster of Slytherin — why don’t they just chuck 
all the Slytherins out?” he roared, to nods and 
scattered applause. 

Percy Weasley was sitting in a chair behind Lee, but 
for once he didn’t seem keen to make his views heard. 
He was looking pale and stunned. 

“Percy’s in shock,” George told Harry quietly. “That 
Ravenclaw girl — Penelope Clearwater — she’s a 
prefect. I don’t think he thought the monster would 
dare attack a prefect.” 

But Harry was only half-listening. He didn’t seem to 
be able to get rid of the picture of Hermione, lying on 
the hospital bed as though carved out of stone. And if 
the culprit wasn’t caught soon, he was looking at a 
lifetime back with the Dursleys. Tom Riddle had 
turned Hagrid in because he was faced with the 
prospect of a Muggle orphanage if the school closed. 
Harry now knew exactly how he had felt. 

“What’re we going to do?” said Ron quietly in Harry’s 
ear. “D’you think they suspect Hagrid?” 

“We’ve got to go and talk to him,” said Harry, making 
up his mind. “I can’t believe it’s him this time, but if 
he set the monster loose last time he’ll know how to 
get inside the Chamber of Secrets, and that’s a start.” 

“But McGonagall said we’ve got to stay in our tower 
unless we’re in class — ” 



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I think,” said Harry, more quietly still, “it’s time to 
get my dad’s old cloak out again.” 

Harry had inherited just one thing from his father: a 
long and silvery Invisibility Cloak. It was their only 
chance of sneaking out of the school to visit Hagrid 
without anyone knowing about it. They went to bed at 
the usual time, waited until Neville, Dean, and 
Seamus had stopped discussing the Chamber of 
Secrets and finally fallen asleep, then got up, dressed 
again, and threw the cloak over themselves. 

The journey through the dark and deserted castle 
corridors wasn’t enjoyable. Harry, who had wandered 
the castle at night several times before, had never 
seen it so crowded after sunset. Teachers, prefects, 
and ghosts were marching the corridors in pairs, 
staring around for any unusual activity. Their 
Invisibility Cloak didn’t stop them making any noise, 
and there was a particularly tense moment when Ron 
stubbed his toe only yards from the spot where Snape 
stood standing guard. Thankfully, Snape sneezed at 
almost exactly the moment Ron swore. It was with 
relief that they reached the oak front doors and eased 
them open. 

It was a clear, starry night. They hurried toward the 
lit windows of Hagrid ’s house and pulled off the cloak 
only when they were right outside his front door. 

Seconds after they had knocked, Hagrid flung it open. 
They found themselves face-to-face with him aiming a 
crossbow at them. Fang the boarhound barked loudly 
behind him. 

“Oh,” he said, lowering the weapon and staring at 
them. “What ’re you two doin’ here?” 



Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s that for?” said Harry, pointing at the 
crossbow as they stepped inside. 



“Nothin’ — nothin’ — “ Hagrid muttered. “I’ve bin 
expectin’ — doesn’ matter — Sit down — I’ll make tea 



He hardly seemed to know what he was doing. He 
nearly extinguished the fire, spilling water from the 
kettle on it, and then smashed the teapot with a 
nervous jerk of his massive hand. 

“Are you okay, Hagrid?” said Harry. “Did you hear 
about Hermione?” 

“Oh, I heard, all righ’,” said Hagrid, a slight break in 
his voice. 

He kept glancing nervously at the windows. He 
poured them both large mugs of boiling water (he had 
forgotten to add tea bags) and was just putting a slab 
of fruitcake on a plate when there was a loud knock 
on the door. 

Hagrid dropped the fruitcake. Harry and Ron 
exchanged panic-stricken looks, then threw the 
Invisibility Cloak back over themselves and retreated 
into a corner. Hagrid checked that they were hidden, 
seized his crossbow, and flung open his door once 
more. 

“Good evening, Hagrid.” 

It was Dumbledore. He entered, looking deadly 
serious, and was followed by a second, very odd- 
looking man. 

The stranger had rumpled gray hair and an anxious 
expression, and was wearing a strange mixture of 

Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




clothes: a pinstriped suit, a scarlet tie, a long black 
cloak, and pointed purple boots. Under his arm he 
carried a lime-green bowler. 

“That’s Dad’s boss!” Ron breathed. “Cornelius Fudge, 
the Minister of Magic!” 

Harry elbowed Ron hard to make him shut up. 

Hagrid had gone pale and sweaty. He dropped into 
one of his chairs and looked from Dumbledore to 
Cornelius Fudge. 

“Bad business, Hagrid,” said Fudge in rather clipped 
tones. “Very bad business. Had to come. Four attacks 
on Muggle-borns. Things’ve gone far enough. 
Ministry’s got to act.” 

“I never,” said Hagrid, looking imploringly at 
Dumbledore. “You know I never, Professor 
Dumbledore, sir — ” 

“I want it understood, Cornelius, that Hagrid has my 
full confidence,” said Dumbledore, frowning at Fudge. 

“Look, Albus,” said Fudge, uncomfortably. “Hagrid’s 
record’s against him. Ministry’s got to do something 
— the school governors have been in touch — ” 

“Yet again, Cornelius, I tell you that taking Hagrid 
away will not help in the slightest,” said Dumbledore. 
His blue eyes were full of a fire Harry had never seen 
before. 

“Look at it from my point of view,” said Fudge, 
fidgeting with his bowler. “I’m under a lot of pressure. 
Got to be seen to be doing something. If it turns out it 
wasn’t Hagrid, he’ll be back and no more said. But 



Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




I’ve got to take him. Got to. Wouldn’t be doing my 
duty — ” 

“Take me?” said Hagrid, who was trembling. “Take me 
where?” 

“For a short stretch only,” said Fudge, not meeting 
Hagrid ’s eyes. “Not a punishment, Hagrid, more a 
precaution. If someone else is caught, you’ll be let out 
with a full apology — ” 

“Not Azkaban?” croaked Hagrid. 

Before Fudge could answer, there was another loud 
rap on the door. 

Dumbledore answered it. It was Harry’s turn for an 
elbow in the ribs; he’d let out an audible gasp. 

Mr. Lucius Malfoy strode into Hagrid’s hut, swathed 
in a long black traveling cloak, smiling a cold and 
satisfied smile. Fang started to growl. 

“Already here, Fudge,” he said approvingly. “Good, 
good...” 

“What’re you doin’ here?” said Hagrid furiously. “Get 
outta my house!” 

“My dear man, please believe me, I have no pleasure 
at all in being inside your — er — d’you call this a 
house?” said Lucius Malfoy, sneering as he looked 
around the small cabin. “I simply called at the school 
and was told that the headmaster was here.” 

“And what exactly did you want with me, Lucius?” 
said Dumbledore. He spoke politely, but the fire was 
still blazing in his blue eyes. 



Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“ Dreadful thing, Dumbledore,” said Malfoy lazily, 
taking out a long roll of parchment, “but the 
governors feel it’s time for you to step aside. This is 
an Order of Suspension — you’ll find all twelve 
signatures on it. I’m afraid we feel you’re losing your 
touch. How many attacks have there been now? Two 
more this afternoon, wasn’t it? At this rate, there’ll be 
no Muggle-borns left at Hogwarts, and we all know 
what an awful loss that would be to the school.” 

“Oh, now, see here, Lucius,” said Fudge, looking 
alarmed, “Dumbledore suspended — no, no — last 
thing we want just now — ” 

“The appointment — or suspension — of the 
headmaster is a matter for the governors, Fudge,” 
said Mr. Malfoy smoothly. “And as Dumbledore has 
failed to stop these attacks — ” 

“See here, Malfoy, if Dumbledore can’t stop them,” 
said Fudge, whose upper lip was sweating now, “I 
mean to say, who can?” 

“That remains to be seen,” said Mr. Malfoy with a 
nasty smile. “But as all twelve of us have voted — ” 

Hagrid leapt to his feet, his shaggy black head grazing 
the ceiling. 

“An’ how many did yeh have ter threaten an’ 
blackmail before they agreed, Malfoy, eh?” he roared. 

“Dear, dear, you know, that temper of yours will lead 
you into trouble one of these days, Hagrid,” said Mr. 
Malfoy. “I would advise you not to shout at the 
Azkaban guards like that. They won’t like it at all.” 

“Yeh can’ take Dumbledore!” yelled Hagrid, making 
Fang the boarhound cower and whimper in his 

Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




basket. “Take him away, an’ the Muggle-borns won’ 
stand a chance! There’ll be killin’ next!” 

“Calm yourself, Hagrid,” said Dumbledore sharply. He 
looked at Lucius Malfoy. 

“If the governors want my removal, Lucius, I shall of 
course step aside — ” 

“But — ” stuttered Fudge. 

“iVo!” growled Hagrid. 

Dumbledore had not taken his bright blue eyes off 
Lucius Malfoy’s cold gray ones. 

“However,” said Dumbledore, speaking very slowly 
and clearly so that none of them could miss a word, 
“you will find that I will only truly have left this school 
when none here are loyal to me. You will also find 
that help will always be given at Hogwarts to those 
who ask for it.” 

For a second, Harry was almost sure Dumbledore’s 
eyes flickered toward the corner where he and Ron 
stood hidden. 

“Admirable sentiments,” said Malfoy, bowing. “We 
shall all miss your — er — highly individual way of 
running things, Albus, and only hope that your 
successor will manage to prevent any — ah — killins.” 

He strode to the cabin door, opened it, and bowed 
Dumbledore out. Fudge, fiddling with his bowler, 
waited for Hagrid to go ahead of him, but Hagrid 
stood his ground, took a deep breath, and said 
carefully, “If anyone wanted ter find out some stuff, 
all they’d have ter do would be ter follow the spiders. 
That’d lead ’em right! That’s all I’m sayin’.” 

Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge stared at him in amazement. 



“All right, I’m cornin’,” said Hagrid, pulling on his 
moleskin overcoat. But as he was about to follow 
Fudge through the door, he stopped again and said 
loudly, “An’ someone’ll need ter feed Fang while I’m 
away.” 

The door banged shut and Ron pulled off the 
Invisibility Cloak. 

“We’re in trouble now,” he said hoarsely. “No 
Dumbledore. They might as well close the school 
tonight. There’ll be an attack a day with him gone.” 

Fang started howling, scratching at the closed door. 



Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






ARAGOG 

Summer was creeping over the grounds around the 
castle; sky and lake alike turned periwinkle blue and 
flowers large as cabbages burst into bloom in the 
greenhouses. But with no Hagrid visible from the 
castle windows, striding the grounds with Fang at his 
heels, the scene didn’t look right to Harry; no better, 
in fact, than the inside of the castle, where things 
were so horribly wrong. 

Harry and Ron had tried to visit Hermione, but 
visitors were now barred from the hospital wing. 

“We’re taking no more chances,” Madam Pomfrey told 
them severely through a crack in the infirmary door. 
“No, I’m sorry, there’s every chance the attacker might 
come back to finish these people off. ...” 

With Dumbledore gone, fear had spread as never 
before, so that the sun warming the castle walls 
outside seemed to stop at the mullioned windows. 
There was barely a face to be seen in the school that 
didn’t look worried and tense, and any laughter that 

Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



rang through the corridors sounded shrill and 
unnatural and was quickly stifled. 



Harry constantly repeated Dumbledore’s final words 
to himself. “I will only truly have left this school when 
none here are loyal to me. . . . Help will always be given 
at Hog warts to those who ask for it.” But what good 
were these words? Who exactly were they supposed to 
ask for help, when everyone was just as confused and 
scared as they were? 

