But already, yet another head was emerging . . . and 
this head, gray as a smoky statue, was a woman’s. ... 
Harry, both arms shaking now as he fought to keep 
his wand still, saw her drop to the ground and 
straighten up like the others, staring. ... 

The shadow of Bertha Jorkins surveyed the battle 
before her with wide eyes. 

“Don’t let go, now!” she cried, and her voice echoed 
like Cedric’s as though from very far away. “Don’t let 
him get you, Harry — don’t let go!” 

She and the other two shadowy figures began to pace 
around the inner walls of the golden web, while the 
Death Eaters flitted around the outside of it ... and 
Voldemort’s dead victims whispered as they circled 
the duelers, whispered words of encouragement to 
Harry, and hissed words Harry couldn’t hear to 
Voldemort. 

And now another head was emerging from the tip of 
Voldemort’s wand ... and Harry knew when he saw it 
who it would be ... he knew, as though he had 
expected it from the moment when Cedric had 
appeared from the wand . . . knew, because the woman 
was the one he’d thought of more than any other 
tonight. ... 

The smoky shadow of a young woman with long hair 
fell to the ground as Bertha had done, straightened 
up, and looked at him ... and Harry, his arms shaking 
madly now, looked back into the ghostly face of his 
mother. 



Page | 736 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Your father’s coming ...” she said quietly. “Hold on 
for your father ... it will be all right ... hold on. ...” 

And he came . . . first his head, then his body . . . tall 
and untidy-haired like Harry, the smoky, shadowy 
form of James Potter blossomed from the end of 
Voldemort’s wand, fell to the ground, and 
straightened like his wife. He walked close to Harry, 
looking down at him, and he spoke in the same 
distant, echoing voice as the others, but quietly, so 
that Voldemort, his face now livid with fear as his 
victims prowled around him, could not hear. . . . 

“When the connection is broken, we will linger for 
only moments . . . but we will give you time . . . you 
must get to the Portkey, it will return you to Hogwarts 
... do you understand, Harry?” 

“Yes,” Harry gasped, fighting now to keep a hold on 
his wand, which was slipping and sliding beneath his 
fingers. 

“Harry ...” whispered the figure of Cedric, “take my 
body back, will you? Take my body back to my 
parents. ...” 

“I will,” said Harry, his face screwed up with the effort 
of holding the wand. 

“Do it now,” whispered his father’s voice, “be ready to 
run ... do it now. ...” 

“NOW!” Harry yelled; he didn’t think he could have 
held on for another moment anyway — he pulled his 
wand upward with an almighty wrench, and the 
golden thread broke; the cage of light vanished, the 
phoenix song died — but the shadowy figures of 
Voldemort’s victims did not disappear — they were 



Page | 737 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




closing in upon Voldemort, shielding Harry from his 
gaze — 

And Harry ran as he had never run in his life, 
knocking two stunned Death Eaters aside as he 
passed; he zigzagged behind headstones, feeling their 
curses following him, hearing them hit the 
headstones — he was dodging curses and graves, 
pelting toward Cedric’s body, no longer aware of the 
pain in his leg, his whole being concentrated on what 
he had to do — 

“Stun him\” he heard Voldemort scream. 

Ten feet from Cedric, Harry dived behind a marble 
angel to avoid the jets of red light and saw the tip of 
its wing shatter as the spells hit it. Gripping his wand 
more tightly, he dashed out from behind the angel — 

“Impedimental” he bellowed, pointing his wand wildly 
over his shoulder at the Death Eaters running at him. 

From a muffled yell, he thought he had stopped at 
least one of them, but there was no time to stop and 
look; he jumped over the cup and dived as he heard 
more wand blasts behind him; more jets of light flew 
over his head as he fell, stretching out his hand to 
grab Cedric’s arm — 

“Stand aside! I will kill him! He is mine!” shrieked 
Voldemort. 

Harry’s hand had closed on Cedric’s wrist; one 
tombstone stood between him and Voldemort, but 
Cedric was too heavy to carry, and the cup was out of 
reach — 



Page | 738 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort’s red eyes flamed in the darkness. Harry 
saw his mouth curl into a smile, saw him raise his 
wand. 

“Acciol” Harry yelled, pointing his wand at the 
Triwizard Cup. 

It flew into the air and soared toward him. Harry 
caught it by the handle — 

He heard Voldemort’s scream of fury at the same 
moment that he felt the jerk behind his navel that 
meant the Portkey had worked — it was speeding him 
away in a whirl of wind and color, and Cedric along 
with him. ... They were going back. 



Page | 739 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






VERITASERUM 

Harry felt himself slam flat into the ground; his face 
was pressed into grass; the smell of it filled his 
nostrils. He had closed his eyes while the Portkey 
transported him, and he kept them closed now. He 
did not move. All the breath seemed to have been 
knocked out of him; his head was swimming so badly 
he felt as though the ground beneath him were 
swaying like the deck of a ship. To hold himself 
steady, he tightened his hold on the two things he 
was still clutching: the smooth, cold handle of the Tri- 
wizard Cup and Cedric’s body. He felt as though he 
would slide away into the blackness gathering at the 
edges of his brain if he let go of either of them. Shock 
and exhaustion kept him on the ground, breathing in 
the smell of the grass, waiting ... waiting for someone 
to do something . . . something to happen . . . and all 
the while, his scar burned dully on his forehead. ... 

A torrent of sound deafened and confused him; there 
were voices everywhere, footsteps, screams. ... He 
remained where he was, his face screwed up against 



Page | 740 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



the noise, as though it were a nightmare that would 
pass. ... 

Then a pair of hands seized him roughly and turned 
him over. 

“Harry! HarryV’ 

He opened his eyes. 

He was looking up at the starry sky, and Albus 
Dumbledore was crouched over him. The dark 
shadows of a crowd of people pressed in around 
them, pushing nearer; Harry felt the ground beneath 
his head reverberating with their footsteps. 

He had come back to the edge of the maze. He could 
see the stands rising above him, the shapes of people 
moving in them, the stars above. 

Harry let go of the cup, but he clutched Cedric to him 
even more tightly. He raised his free hand and seized 
Dumbledore ’s wrist, while Dumbledore ’s face swam in 
and out of focus. 

“He’s back,” Harry whispered. “He’s back. Voldemort.” 

“What’s going on? What’s happened?” 

The face of Cornelius Fudge appeared upside down 
over Harry; it looked white, appalled. 

“My God — Diggory!” it whispered. “Dumbledore — 
he’s dead!” 

The words were repeated, the shadowy figures 
pressing in on them gasped it to those around them 
. . . and then others shouted it — screeched it — into 



Page | 741 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the night — “He’s dead!” “He’s dead!” “Cedric Diggory! 
Dead).” 



“Harry, let go of him,” he heard Fudge’s voice say, and 
he felt fingers trying to pry him from Cedric’s limp 
body, but Harry wouldn’t let him go. Then 
Dumbledore’s face, which was still blurred and 
misted, came closer. 

“Harry, you can’t help him now. It’s over. Let go.” 

“He wanted me to bring him back,” Harry muttered — 
it seemed important to explain this. “He wanted me to 
bring him back to his parents. ...” 

“That’s right, Harry ... just let go now. ...” 

Dumbledore bent down, and with extraordinary 
strength for a man so old and thin, raised Harry from 
the ground and set him on his feet. Harry swayed. His 
head was pounding. His injured leg would no longer 
support his weight. The crowd around them jostled, 
fighting to get closer, pressing darkly in on him — 
“What’s happened?” “What’s wrong with him?” 

“Dig gory’s dead\” 

“He’ll need to go to the hospital wing!” Fudge was 
saying loudly. “He’s ill, he’s injured — Dumbledore, 
Diggory’s parents, they’re here, they’re in the stands. 



“I’ll take Harry, Dumbledore, I’ll take him — ” 

“No, I would prefer — ” 

“Dumbledore, Amos Diggory’s running ... he’s coming 
over. ... Don’t you think you should tell him — before 
he sees — ?” 

Page | 742 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, stay here — ” 



Girls were screaming, sobbing hysterically. . . . The 
scene flickered oddly before Harry’s eyes. ... 

“It’s all right, son, I’ve got you ... come on ... hospital 
wing ...” 

“Dumbledore said stay,” said Harry thickly, the 
pounding in his scar making him feel as though he 
was about to throw up; his vision was blurring worse 
than ever. 

“You need to lie down. ... Come on now. ...” 

Someone larger and stronger than he was was half 
pulling, half carrying him through the frightened 
crowd. Harry heard people gasping, screaming, and 
shouting as the man supporting him pushed a path 
through them, taking him back to the castle. Across 
the lawn, past the lake and the Durmstrang ship, 
Harry heard nothing but the heavy breathing of the 
man helping him walk. 

“What happened, Harry?” the man asked at last as he 
lifted Harry up the stone steps. Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. 

It was Mad-Eye Moody. 

“Cup was a Portkey,” said Harry as they crossed the 
entrance hall. “Took me and Cedric to a graveyard ... 
and Voldemort was there ... Lord Voldemort ...” 

Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Up the marble stairs ... 

“The Dark Lord was there? What happened then?” 

“Killed Cedric ... they killed Cedric. ...” 

“And then?” 

Page | 743 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Along the corridor . . . 

“Made a potion ... got his body back. ...” 

“The Dark Lord got his body back? He’s returned?” 
“And the Death Eaters came ... and then we dueled. 



“You dueled with the Dark Lord?” 

“Got away . . . my wand . . . did something funny. ... I 
saw my mum and dad ... they came out of his wand. 



“In here, Harry ... in here, and sit down. ... You’ll be 
all right now ... drink this. ...” 

Harry heard a key scrape in a lock and felt a cup 
being pushed into his hands. 

“Drink it ... you’ll feel better ... come on, now, Harry, I 
need to know exactly what happened. ...” 

Moody helped tip the stuff down Harry’s throat; he 
coughed, a peppery taste burning his throat. Moody’s 
office came into sharper focus, and so did Moody 
himself. ... He looked as white as Fudge had looked, 
and both eyes were fixed unblinkingly upon Harry’s 
face. 

“Voldemort’s back, Harry? You’re sure he’s back? How 
did he do it?” 

“He took stuff from his father’s grave, and from 
Wormtail, and me,” said Harry. His head felt clearer; 
his scar wasn’t hurting so badly; he could now see 
Moody’s face distinctly, even though the office was 



Page | 744 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




dark. He could still hear screaming and shouting 
from the distant Quidditch field. 



“What did the Dark Lord take from you?” said Moody. 

“Blood,” said Harry, raising his arm. His sleeve was 
ripped where Wormtail’s dagger had torn it. 

Moody let out his breath in a long, low hiss. 

“And the Death Eaters? They returned?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. “Loads of them ...” 

“How did he treat them?” Moody asked quietly. “Did 
he forgive them?” 

But Harry had suddenly remembered. He should have 
told Dumbledore, he should have said it straightaway 



“There’s a Death Eater at Hogwarts! There’s a Death 
Eater here — they put my name in the Goblet of Fire, 
they made sure I got through to the end — ” 

Harry tried to get up, but Moody pushed him back 
down. 

“I know who the Death Eater is,” he said quietly. 

“Karkaroff?” said Harry wildly. “Where is he? Have 
you got him? Is he locked up?” 

“Karkaroff?” said Moody with an odd laugh. 

“Karkaroff fled tonight, when he felt the Dark Mark 
burn upon his arm. He betrayed too many faithful 
supporters of the Dark Lord to wish to meet them . . . 
but I doubt he will get far. The Dark Lord has ways of 
tracking his enemies.” 

Page | 745 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Karkaroff’s gone? He ran away? But then — he didn’t 
put my name in the goblet?” 



“No,” said Moody slowly. “No, he didn’t. It was I who 
did that.” 

Harry heard, but didn’t believe. 

“No, you didn’t,” he said. “You didn’t do that ... you 
can’t have done ...” 

“I assure you I did,” said Moody, and his magical eye 
swung around and fixed upon the door, and Harry 
knew he was making sure that there was no one 
outside it. At the same time, Moody drew out his 
wand and pointed it at Harry. 

“He forgave them, then?” he said. “The Death Eaters 
who went free? The ones who escaped Azkaban?” 

“What?” said Harry. 

He was looking at the wand Moody was pointing at 
him. This was a bad joke, it had to be. 

“I asked you,” said Moody quietly, “whether he forgave 
the scum who never even went to look for him. Those 
treacherous cowards who wouldn’t even brave 
Azkaban for him. The faithless, worthless bits of filth 
who were brave enough to cavort in masks at the 
Quidditch World Cup, but fled at the sight of the Dark 
Mark when I fired it into the sky.” 

“ You fired . . . What are you talking about ... ?” 

“I told you, Harry ... I told you. If there’s one thing I 
hate more than any other, it’s a Death Eater who 
walked free. They turned their backs on my master 
when he needed them most. I expected him to punish 

Page | 746 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




them. I expected him to torture them. Tell me he hurt 
them, Harry. ...” Moody’s face was suddenly lit with 
an insane smile. “Tell me he told them that I, I alone 
remained faithful . . . prepared to risk everything to 
deliver to him the one thing he wanted above all ... 
you.” 

“You didn’t ... it — it can’t be you. ...” 

“Who put your name in the Goblet of Fire, under the 
name of a different school? I did. Who frightened off 
every person I thought might try to hurt you or 
prevent you from winning the tournament? I did. Who 
nudged Hagrid into showing you the dragons? I did. 
Who helped you see the only way you could beat the 
dragon? I did.” 

Moody’s magical eye had now left the door. It was 
fixed upon Harry. His lopsided mouth leered more 
widely than ever. 

“It hasn’t been easy, Harry, guiding you through these 
tasks without arousing suspicion. I have had to use 
every ounce of cunning I possess, so that my hand 
would not be detectable in your success. Dumbledore 
would have been very suspicious if you had managed 
everything too easily. As long as you got into that 
maze, preferably with a decent head start — then, I 
knew, I would have a chance of getting rid of the 
other champions and leaving your way clear. But I 
also had to contend with your stupidity. The second 
task . . . that was when I was most afraid we would 
fail. I was keeping watch on you, Potter. I knew you 
hadn’t worked out the egg’s clue, so I had to give you 
another hint — ” 

“You didn’t,” Harry said hoarsely. “Cedric gave me the 
clue — ” 



Page | 747 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Who told Cedric to open it underwater? I did. I 
trusted that he would pass the information on to you. 
Decent people are so easy to manipulate, Potter. I was 
sure Cedric would want to repay you for telling him 
about the dragons, and so he did. But even then, 
Potter, even then you seemed likely to fail. I was 
watching all the time ... all those hours in the library. 
Didn’t you realize that the book you needed was in 
your dormitory all along? I planted it there early on, I 
gave it to the Longbottom boy, don’t you remember? 
Magical Water Plants of the Mediterranean. It would 
have told you all you needed to know about gillyweed. 

I expected you to ask everyone and anyone you could 
for help. Longbottom would have told you in an 
instant. But you did not ... you did not. ... You have a 
streak of pride and independence that might have 
ruined all. 

“So what could I do? Feed you information from 
another innocent source. You told me at the Yule Ball 
a house-elf called Dobby had given you a Christmas 
present. I called the elf to the staffroom to collect 
some robes for cleaning. I staged a loud conversation 
with Professor McGonagall about the hostages who 
had been taken, and whether Potter would think to 
use gillyweed. And your little elf friend ran straight to 
Snape’s office and then hurried to find you. ...” 

Moody’s wand was still pointing directly at Harry’s 
heart. Over his shoulder, foggy shapes were moving in 
the Foe-Glass on the wall. 

“You were so long in that lake, Potter, I thought you 
had drowned. But luckily, Dumbledore took your 
idiocy for nobility, and marked you high for it. I 
breathed again. 

“You had an easier time of it than you should have in 
that maze tonight, of course,” said Moody. “I was 

Page | 748 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




patrolling around it, able to see through the outer 
hedges, able to curse many obstacles out of your way. 
I Stunned Fleur Delacour as she passed. I put the 
Imperius Curse on Krum, so that he would finish 
Diggory and leave your path to the cup clear.” 

Harry stared at Moody. He just didn’t see how this 
could be. ... Dumbledore’s friend, the famous Auror 
. . . the one who had caught so many Death Eaters . . . 

It made no sense ... no sense at all. ... 

The foggy shapes in the Foe-Glass were sharpening, 
had become more distinct. Harry could see the 
outlines of three people over Moody’s shoulder, 
moving closer and closer. But Moody wasn’t watching 
them. His magical eye was upon Harry. 

“The Dark Lord didn’t manage to kill you, Potter, and 
he so wanted to,” whispered Moody. “Imagine how he 
will reward me when he finds I have done it for him. I 
gave you to him — the thing he needed above all to 
regenerate — and then I killed you for him. I will be 
honored beyond all other Death Eaters. I will be his 
dearest, his closest supporter ... closer than a son. ...” 

Moody’s normal eye was bulging, the magical eye 
fixed upon Harry. The door was barred, and Harry 
knew he would never reach his own wand in time. ... 

“The Dark Lord and I,” said Moody, and he looked 
completely insane now, towering over Harry, leering 
down at him, “have much in common. Both of us, for 
instance, had very disappointing fathers ... very 
disappointing indeed. Both of us suffered the 
indignity, Harry, of being named after those fathers. 
And both of us had the pleasure . . . the very great 
pleasure ... of killing our fathers to ensure the 
continued rise of the Dark Order!” 



Page | 749 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re mad,” Harry said — he couldn’t stop himself 
— “you’re mad!” 



“Mad, am I?” said Moody, his voice rising 
uncontrollably. “We’ll see! We’ll see who’s mad, now 
that the Dark Lord has returned, with me at his side! 
He is back, Harry Potter, you did not conquer him — 
and now — I conquer you!” 

Moody raised his wand, he opened his mouth; Harry 
plunged his own hand into his robes — 

“Stupefy\” There was a blinding flash of red light, and 
with a great splintering and crashing, the door of 
Moody’s office was blasted apart — 

Moody was thrown backward onto the office floor. 
Harry, still staring at the place where Moody’s face 
had been, saw Albus Dumbledore, Professor Snape, 
and Professor McGonagall looking back at him out of 
the Foe-Glass. He looked around and saw the three of 
them standing in the doorway, Dumbledore in front, 
his wand outstretched. 

At that moment, Harry fully understood for the first 
time why people said Dumbledore was the only wizard 
Voldemort had ever feared. The look upon 
Dumbledore ’s face as he stared down at the 
unconscious form of Mad-Eye Moody was more 
terrible than Harry could have ever imagined. There 
was no benign smile upon Dumbledore ’s face, no 
twinkle in the eyes behind the spectacles. There was 
cold fury in every line of the ancient face; a sense of 
power radiated from Dumbledore as though he were 
giving off burning heat. 

He stepped into the office, placed a foot underneath 
Moody’s unconscious body, and kicked him over onto 
his back, so that his face was visible. Snape followed 

Page | 750 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




him, looking into the Foe-Glass, where his own face 
was still visible, glaring into the room. Professor 
McGonagall went straight to Harry. 

“Come along, Potter,” she whispered. The thin line of 
her mouth was twitching as though she was about to 
cry. “Come along ... hospital wing ...” 

“No,” said Dumbledore sharply. 

“Dumbledore, he ought to — look at him — he’s been 
through enough tonight — ” 

“He will stay, Minerva, because he needs to 
understand,” said Dumbledore curtly. “Understanding 
is the first step to acceptance, and only with 
acceptance can there be recovery. He needs to know 
who has put him through the ordeal he has suffered 
tonight, and why.” 

“Moody,” Harry said. He was still in a state of 
complete disbelief. “How can it have been Moody?” 

“This is not Alastor Moody,” said Dumbledore quietly. 
“You have never known Alastor Moody. The real 
Moody would not have removed you from my sight 
after what happened tonight. The moment he took 
you, I knew — and I followed.” 

Dumbledore bent down over Moody’s limp form and 
put a hand inside his robes. He pulled out Moody’s 
hip flask and a set of keys on a ring. Then he turned 
to Professors McGonagall and Snape. 

“Severus, please fetch me the strongest Truth Potion 
you possess, and then go down to the kitchens and 
bring up the house-elf called Winky. Minerva, kindly 
go down to Hagrid’s house, where you will find a large 
black dog sitting in the pumpkin patch. Take the dog 
Page | 751 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




up to my office, tell him I will be with him shortly, 
then come back here.” 

If either Snape or McGonagall found these 
instructions peculiar, they hid their confusion. Both 
turned at once and left the office. Dumbledore walked 
over to the trunk with seven locks, fitted the first key 
in the lock, and opened it. It contained a mass of 
spell-books. Dumbledore closed the trunk, placed a 
second key in the second lock, and opened the trunk 
again. The spellbooks had vanished; this time it 
contained an assortment of broken Sneako-scopes, 
some parchment and quills, and what looked like a 
silvery Invisibility Cloak. Harry watched, astounded, 
as Dumbledore placed the third, fourth, fifth, and 
sixth keys in their respective locks, reopening the 
trunk, and each time revealing different contents. 
Then he placed the seventh key in the lock, threw 
open the lid, and Harry let out a cry of amazement. 

He was looking down into a kind of pit, an 
underground room, and lying on the floor some ten 
feet below, apparently fast asleep, thin and starved in 
appearance, was the real Mad-Eye Moody. His 
wooden leg was gone, the socket that should have 
held the magical eye looked empty beneath its lid, 
and chunks of his grizzled hair were missing. Harry 
stared, thunderstruck, between the sleeping Moody in 
the trunk and the unconscious Moody lying on the 
floor of the office. 

Dumbledore climbed into the trunk, lowered himself, 
and fell lightly onto the floor beside the sleeping 
Moody. He bent over him. 

“Stunned — controlled by the Imperius Curse — very 
weak,” he said. “Of course, they would have needed to 
keep him alive. Harry, throw down the imposter’s 



Page | 752 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




cloak — he’s freezing. Madam Pomfrey will need to see 
him, but he seems in no immediate danger.” 

Harry did as he was told; Dumbledore covered Moody 
in the cloak, tucked it around him, and clambered 
out of the trunk again. Then he picked up the hip 
flask that stood upon the desk, unscrewed it, and 
turned it over. A thick glutinous liquid splattered onto 
the office floor. 

“Polyjuice Potion, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “You see 
the simplicity of it, and the brilliance. For Moody 
never does drink except from his hip flask, he’s well 
known for it. The imposter needed, of course, to keep 
the real Moody close by, so that he could continue 
making the potion. You see his hair ...” Dumbledore 
looked down on the Moody in the trunk. “The 
imposter has been cutting it off all year, see where it 
is uneven? But I think, in the excitement of tonight, 
our fake Moody might have forgotten to take it as 
frequently as he should have done ... on the hour . . . 
every hour. ... We shall see.” 

Dumbledore pulled out the chair at the desk and sat 
down upon it, his eyes fixed upon the unconscious 
Moody on the floor. Harry stared at him too. Minutes 
passed in silence. ... 

Then, before Harry’s very eyes, the face of the man on 
the floor began to change. The scars were 
disappearing, the skin was becoming smooth; the 
mangled nose became whole and started to shrink. 
The long mane of grizzled gray hair was withdrawing 
into the scalp and turning the color of straw. 
Suddenly, with a loud clunk, the wooden leg fell away 
as a normal leg regrew in its place; next moment, the 
magical eyeball had popped out of the man’s face as a 
real eye replaced it; it rolled away across the floor and 
continued to swivel in every direction. 

Page | 753 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry saw a man lying before him, pale-skinned, 
slightly freckled, with a mop of fair hair. He knew who 
he was. He had seen him in Dumbledore’s Pensieve, 
had watched him being led away from court by the 
dementors, trying to convince Mr. Crouch that he was 
innocent . . . but he was lined around the eyes now 
and looked much older. . . . 

There were hurried footsteps outside in the corridor. 
Snape had returned with Winky at his heels. 

Professor McGonagall was right behind them. 

“Crouch!” Snape said, stopping dead in the doorway. 
“Barty Crouch!” 

“Good heavens,” said Professor McGonagall, stopping 
dead and staring down at the man on the floor. 

Filthy, disheveled, Winky peered around Snape’s legs. 
Her mouth opened wide and she let out a piercing 
shriek. 

“Master Barty, Master Barty, what is you doing here?” 

She flung herself forward onto the young man’s chest. 

“You is killed him! You is killed him! You is killed 
Master’s son!” 

“He is simply Stunned, Winky,” said Dumbledore. 
“Step aside, please. Severus, you have the potion?” 

Snape handed Dumbledore a small glass bottle of 
completely clear liquid: the Veritaserum with which 
he had threatened Harry in class. Dumbledore got up, 
bent over the man on the floor, and pulled him into a 
sitting position against the wall beneath the Foe- 
Glass, in which the reflections of Dumbledore, Snape, 
and McGonagall were still glaring down upon them 
Page | 754 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




all. Winky remained on her knees, trembling, her 
hands over her face. Dumbledore forced the man’s 
mouth open and poured three drops inside it. Then 
he pointed his wand at the man’s chest and said, 
“Rennervate.” 

Crouch’s son opened his eyes. His face was slack, his 
gaze unfocused. Dumbledore knelt before him, so that 
their faces were level. 

“Can you hear me?” Dumbledore asked quietly. 

The man’s eyelids flickered. 

“Yes,” he muttered. 

“I would like you to tell us,” said Dumbledore softly, 
“how you came to be here. How did you escape from 
Azkaban?” 

Crouch took a deep, shuddering breath, then began 
to speak in a flat, expressionless voice. 

“My mother saved me. She knew she was dying. She 
persuaded my father to rescue me as a last favor to 
her. He loved her as he had never loved me. He 
agreed. They came to visit me. They gave me a draft of 
Polyjuice Potion containing one of my mother’s hairs. 
She took a draft of Polyjuice Potion containing one of 
my hairs. We took on each other’s appearance.” 

Winky was shaking her head, trembling. 

“Say no more, Master Barty, say no more, you is 
getting your father into trouble!” 

But Crouch took another deep breath and continued 
in the same flat voice. 



Page | 755 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“The dementors are blind. They sensed one healthy, 
one dying person entering Azkaban. They sensed one 
healthy, one dying person leaving it. My father 
smuggled me out, disguised as my mother, in case 
any prisoners were watching through their doors. 

“My mother died a short while afterward in Azkaban. 
She was careful to drink Polyjuice Potion until the 
end. She was buried under my name and bearing my 
appearance. Everyone believed her to be me.” 

The man’s eyelids flickered. 

“And what did your father do with you, when he had 
got you home?” said Dumbledore quietly. 

“Staged my mother’s death. A quiet, private funeral. 
That grave is empty. The house-elf nursed me back to 
health. Then I had to be concealed. I had to be 
controlled. My father had to use a number of spells to 
subdue me. When I had recovered my strength, I 
thought only of finding my master ... of returning to 
his service.” 

“How did your father subdue you?” said Dumbledore. 

“The Imperius Curse,” Crouch said. “I was under my 
father’s control. I was forced to wear an Invisibility 
Cloak day and night. I was always with the house-elf. 
She was my keeper and caretaker. She pitied me. She 
persuaded my father to give me occasional treats. 
Rewards for my good behavior.” 

“Master Barty, Master Barty,” sobbed Winky through 
her hands. “You isn’t ought to tell them, we is getting 
in trouble. ...” 



Page | 756 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Did anybody ever discover that you were still alive?” 
said Dumbledore softly. “Did anyone know except 
your father and the house-elf?” 

“Yes,” said Crouch, his eyelids flickering again. “A 
witch in my father’s office. Bertha Jorkins. She came 
to the house with papers for my father’s signature. He 
was not at home. Winky showed her inside and 
returned to the kitchen, to me. But Bertha Jorkins 
heard Winky talking to me. She came to investigate. 
She heard enough to guess who was hiding under the 
Invisibility Cloak. My father arrived home. She 
confronted him. He put a very powerful Memory 
Charm on her to make her forget what she’d found 
out. Too powerful. He said it damaged her memory 
permanently.” 

“Why is she coming to nose into my master’s private 
business?” sobbed Winky. “Why isn’t she leaving us 
be?” 

“Tell me about the Quidditch World Cup,” said 
Dumbledore. 

