"A tribute to your tributes, as it were," says Plutarch.
"That is brilliant, Fulvia," I say sincerely. "It's the perfect
way to remind people why they're fighting."
"I think it could work," she says. "I thought we might use
Finnick to intro and narrate the spots. If there was interest in
them."
"Frankly, I don't see how we could have too many We
Remember propos," says Coin. "Can you start producing
them today?"
"Of course," says Fulvia, obviously mollified by the
response to her idea.
Cressida has smoothed everything over in the creative
department with her gesture. Praised Fulvia for what is, in
fact, a really good idea, and cleared the way to continue her
own on-air depiction of the Mockingjay. What's interesting
is that Plutarch seems to have no need to share in the
credit. All he wants is for the Airtime Assault to work. I
remember that Plutarch is a Head Gamemaker, not a
member of the crew. Not a piece in the Games. Therefore,
his worth is not defined by a single element, but by the
overall success of the production. If we win the war, that's
when Plutarch will take his bow. And expect his reward.
The president sends everyone off to get to work, so
Gale wheels me back to the hospital. We laugh a little
about the cover-up. Gale says no one wanted to look bad
by admitting they couldn't control us. I'm kinder, saying they
probably didn't want to jeopardize the chance of taking us
out again now that they've gotten some decent footage.
Both things are probably true. Gale has to go meet Beetee
down in Special Weaponry, so I doze off.
It seems like I've only shut my eyes for a few minutes,
but when I open them, I flinch at the sight of Haymitch sitting
a couple of feet from my bed. Waiting. Possibly for several
hours if the clock is right. I think about hollering for a
witness, but I'm going to have to face him sooner or later.
Haymitch leans forward and dangles something on a
thin white wire in front of my nose. It's hard to focus on, but
I'm pretty sure what it is. He drops it to the sheets. "That is
your earpiece. I will give you exactly one more chance to
wear it. If you remove it from your ear again, I'll have you
fitted with this." He holds up some sort of metal headgear
that I instantly name the head shackle. "It's an alternative
audio unit that locks around your skull and under your chin
until it's opened with a key. And I'll have the only key. If for
some reason you're clever enough to disable it"--Haymitch
dumps the head shackle on the bed and whips out a tiny
silver chip--"I'll authorize them to surgically implant this
transmitter into your ear so that I may speak to you twentyfour
hours a day."
Haymitch in my head full-time. Horrifying. "I'll keep the
earpiece in," I mutter.
"Excuse me?" he says.
"I'll keep the earpiece in!" I say, loud enough to wake
up half the hospital.
"You sure? Because I'm equally happy with any of the
three options," he tells me.
"I'm sure," I say. I scrunch up the earpiece wire
protectively in my fist and fling the head shackle back in his
face with my free hand, but he catches it easily. Probably
was expecting me to throw it. "Anything else?"
Haymitch rises to go. "While I was waiting...I ate your
lunch." My eyes take in the empty stew bowl and tray on my
bed table. "I'm going to report you," I mumble into my pillow.
"You do that, sweetheart." He goes out, safe in the
knowledge that I'm not the reporting kind.
I want to go back to sleep, but I'm restless. Images
from yesterday begin to flood into the present. The
bombing, the fiery plane crashes, the faces of the wounded
who no longer exist. I imagine death from all sides. The last
moment before seeing a shell hit the ground, feeling the
wing blown from my plane and the dizzying nosedive into
oblivion, the warehouse roof falling down at me while I'm
pinned helplessly to my cot. Things I saw, in person or on
the tape. Things I caused with a pull of my bowstring.
Things I will never be able to erase from my memory.
At dinner, Finnick brings his tray to my bed so we can
watch the newest propo together on television. He was
assigned quarters on my old floor, but he has so many
mental relapses, he still basically lives in the hospital. The
rebels air the "Because you know who they are and what
they do" propo that Messalla edited. The footage is intercut
with short studio clips of Gale, Boggs, and Cressida
describing the incident. It's hard to watch my reception in
the hospital in 8 since I know what's coming. When the
bombs rain down on the roof, I bury my face in my pillow,
looking up again at a brief clip of me at the end, after all the
victims are dead.
At least Finnick doesn't applaud or act all happy when
it's done. He just says, "People should know that
happened. And now they do."
"Let's turn it off, Finnick, before they run it again," I urge
him. But as Finnick's hand moves toward the remote
control, I cry, "Wait!" The Capitol is introducing a special
segment and something about it looks familiar. Yes, it's
Caesar Flickerman. And I can guess who his guest will be.
Peeta's physical transformation shocks me. The
healthy, clear-eyed boy I saw a few days ago has lost at
least fifteen pounds and developed a nervous tremor in his
hands. They've still got him groomed. But underneath the
paint that cannot cover the bags under his eyes, and the
fine clothes that cannot conceal the pain he feels when he
moves, is a person badly damaged.
My mind reels, trying to make sense of it. I just saw
him! Four--no, five--I think it was five days ago. How has he
deteriorated so rapidly? What could they possibly have
done to him in such a short time? Then it hits me. I replay in
my mind as much as I can of his first interview with Caesar,
searching for anything that would place it in time. There is
nothing. They could have taped that interview a day or two
after I blew up the arena, then done whatever they wanted
to do to him ever since. "Oh, Peeta..." I whisper.
Caesar and Peeta have a few empty exchanges
before Caesar asks him about rumors that I'm taping
propos for the districts. "They're using her, obviously," says
Peeta. "To whip up the rebels. I doubt she even really
knows what's going on in the war. What's at stake."
"Is there anything you'd like to tell her?" asks Caesar.
"There is," says Peeta. He looks directly into the
camera, right into my eyes. "Don't be a fool, Katniss. Think
for yourself. They've turned you into a weapon that could be
instrumental in the destruction of humanity. If you've got any
real influence, use it to put the brakes on this thing. Use it to
stop the war before it's too late. Ask yourself, do you really
trust the people you're working with? Do you really know
what's going on? And if you don't...find out."
Black screen. Seal of Panem. Show over.
Finnick presses the button on the remote that kills the
power. In a minute, people will be here to do damage
control on Peeta's condition and the words that came out of
his mouth. I will need to repudiate them. But the truth is, I
don't trust the rebels or Plutarch or Coin. I'm not confident
that they tell me the truth. I won't be able to conceal this.
Footsteps are approaching.
Finnick grips me hard by the arms. "We didn't see it."
"What?" I ask.
"We didn't see Peeta. Only the propo on Eight. Then
we turned the set off because the images upset you. Got
it?" he asks. I nod. "Finish your dinner." I pull myself
together enough so that when Plutarch and Fulvia enter, I
have a mouthful of bread and cabbage. Finnick is talking
about how well Gale came across on camera. We
congratulate them on the propo. Make it clear it was so
powerful, we tuned out right afterward. They look relieved.
They believe us.
No one mentions Peeta.