paradise, and at first, Harry listened rather than 
talked as he helped himself to chicken and ham pie, 
boiled potatoes, and salad. 

At the far end of the table, Percy was telling his father 
all about his report on cauldron bottoms. 

“I’ve told Mr. Crouch that I’ll have it ready by 
Tuesday,” Percy was saying pompously. “That’s a bit 
sooner than he expected it, but I like to keep on top of 
things. I think he’ll be grateful I’ve done it in good 
time, I mean, it’s extremely busy in our department 
just now, what with all the arrangements for the 
World Cup. We’re just not getting the support we 
need from the Department of Magical Games and 
Sports. Ludo Bagman — ” 

“I like Ludo,” said Mr. Weasley mildly. “He was the 
one who got us such good tickets for the Cup. I did 
him a bit of a favor: His brother, Otto, got into a spot 
of trouble — a lawnmower with unnatural powers — I 
smoothed the whole thing over.” 

“Oh Bagman’s likable enough, of course,” said Percy 
dismissively, “but how he ever got to be Head of 
Department ... when I compare him to Mr. Crouch! I 
can’t see Mr. Crouch losing a member of our 
department and not trying to find out what’s 
happened to them. You realize Bertha Jorkins has 
been missing for over a month now? Went on holiday 
to Albania and never came back?” 

“Yes, I was asking Ludo about that,” said Mr. 

Weasley, frowning. “He says Bertha’s gotten lost 



Page | 67 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




plenty of times before now — though I must say, if it 
was someone in my department, I’d be worried. ...” 

“Oh Bertha’s hopeless, all right,” said Percy. “I hear 
she’s been shunted from department to department 
for years, much more trouble than she’s worth ... but 
all the same, Bagman ought to be trying to find her. 
Mr. Crouch has been taking a personal interest, she 
worked in our department at one time, you know, and 
I think Mr. Crouch was quite fond of her — but 
Bagman just keeps laughing and saying she probably 
misread the map and ended up in Australia instead of 
Albania. However” — Percy heaved an impressive sigh 
and took a deep swig of elderflower wine — “we’ve got 
quite enough on our plates at the Department of 
International Magical Cooperation without trying to 
find members of other departments too. As you know, 
we’ve got another big event to organize right after the 
World Cup.” 

Percy cleared his throat significantly and looked down 
toward the end of the table where Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione were sitting. “ You know the one I’m talking 
about, Father.” He raised his voice slightly. “The top- 
secret one.” 

Ron rolled his eyes and muttered to Harry and 
Hermione, “He’s been trying to get us to ask what that 
event is ever since he started work. Probably an 
exhibition of thick-bottomed cauldrons.” 

In the middle of the table, Mrs. Weasley was arguing 
with Bill about his earring, which seemed to be a 
recent acquisition. 

“... with a horrible great fang on it. Really, Bill, what 
do they say at the bank?” 



Page | 68 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Mum, no one at the bank gives a damn how I dress 
as long as I bring home plenty of treasure,” said Bill 
patiently. 

“And your hair’s getting silly, dear,” said Mrs. 

Weasley, fingering her wand lovingly. “I wish you’d let 
me give it a trim. ...” 

“I like it,” said Ginny, who was sitting beside Bill. 
“You’re so old-fashioned, Mum. Anyway, it’s nowhere 
near as long as Professor Dumbledore’s. ...” 

Next to Mrs. Weasley, Fred, George, and Charlie were 
all talking spiritedly about the World Cup. 

“It’s got to be Ireland,” said Charlie thickly, through a 
mouthful of potato. “They flattened Peru in the 
semifinals.” 

“Bulgaria has got Viktor Krum, though,” said Fred. 

“Krum’s one decent player, Ireland has got seven,” 
said Charlie shortly. “I wish England had got through. 
That was embarrassing, that was.” 

“What happened?” said Harry eagerly, regretting more 
than ever his isolation from the wizarding world when 
he was stuck on Privet Drive. 

“Went down to Transylvania, three hundred and 
ninety to ten,” said Charlie gloomily. “Shocking 
performance. And Wales lost to Uganda, and Scotland 
was slaughtered by Luxembourg.” 

Harry had been on the Gryffindor House Quidditch 
team ever since his first year at Hogwarts and owned 
one of the best racing brooms in the world, a Firebolt. 
Flying came more naturally to Harry than anything 



Page | 69 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




else in the magical world, and he played in the 
position of Seeker on the Gryffindor House team. 

Mr. Weasley conjured up candles to light the 
darkening garden before they had their homemade 
strawberry ice cream, and by the time they had 
finished, moths were fluttering low over the table, and 
the warm air was perfumed with the smells of grass 
and honeysuckle. Harry was feeling extremely well fed 
and at peace with the world as he watched several 
gnomes sprinting through the rosebushes, laughing 
madly and closely pursued by Crookshanks. 

Ron looked carefully up the table to check that the 
rest of the family were all busy talking, then he said 
very quietly to Harry, “So — have you heard from 
Sirius lately?” 

Hermione looked around, listening closely. 

“Yeah,” said Harry softly, “twice. He sounds okay. I 
wrote to him yesterday. He might write back while I’m 
here.” 

He suddenly remembered the reason he had written 
to Sirius, and for a moment was on the verge of telling 
Ron and Hermione about his scar hurting again, and 
about the dream that had awoken him . . . but he 
really didn’t want to worry them just now, not when 
he himself was feeling so happy and peaceful. 

“Look at the time,” Mrs. Weasley said suddenly, 
checking her wristwatch. “You really should be in 
bed, the whole lot of you — you’ll be up at the crack 
of dawn to get to the Cup. Harry, if you leave your 
school list out, I’ll get your things for you tomorrow in 
Diagon Alley. I’m getting everyone else’s. There might 
not be time after the World Cup, the match went on 
for five days last time.” 

Page | 70 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




“Wow — hope it does this time!” said Harry 
enthusiastically. 

“Well, I certainly don’t,” said Percy sanctimoniously. “I 
shudder to think what the state of my in-tray would 
be if I was away from work for five days.” 

“Yeah, someone might slip dragon dung in it again, 
eh, Perce?” said Fred. 

“That was a sample of fertilizer from Norway!” said 
Percy, going very red in the face. “It was nothing 
personall” 

“It was,” Fred whispered to Harry as they got up from 
the table. “We sent it.” 



Page | 71 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 







THE PORTKEY 

Harry felt as though he had barely lain down to sleep 
in Ron’s room when he was being shaken awake by 
Mrs. Weasley. 

“Time to go, Harry, dear,” she whispered, moving 
away to wake Ron. 

Harry felt around for his glasses, put them on, and 
sat up. It was still dark outside. Ron muttered 
indistinctly as his mother roused him. At the foot of 
Harry’s mattress he saw two large, disheveled shapes 
emerging from tangles of blankets. 

“ ’S’ time already?” said Fred groggily. 

They dressed in silence, too sleepy to talk, then, 
yawning and stretching, the four of them headed 
downstairs into the kitchen. 

Mrs. Weasley was stirring the contents of a large pot 
on the stove, while Mr. Weasley was sitting at the 
table, checking a sheaf of large parchment tickets. He 

Page | 72 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



looked up as the boys entered and spread his arms so 
that they could see his clothes more clearly. He was 
wearing what appeared to be a golfing sweater and a 
very old pair of jeans, slightly too big for him and held 
up with a thick leather belt. 

“What d’you think?” he asked anxiously. “We’re 
supposed to go incognito — do I look like a Muggle, 
Harry?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, smiling, “very good.” 

“Where ’re Bill and Charlie and Per-Per-Percy?” said 
George, failing to stifle a huge yawn. 

“Well, they’re Apparating, aren’t they?” said Mrs. 
Weasley, heaving the large pot over to the table and 
starting to ladle porridge into bowls. “So they can 
have a bit of a lie-in.” 

Harry knew that Apparating meant disappearing from 
one place and reappearing almost instantly in 
another, but had never known any Hogwarts student 
to do it, and understood that it was very difficult. 

“So they’re still in bed?” said Fred grumpily, pulling 
his bowl of porridge toward him. “Why can’t we 
Apparate too?” 

“Because you’re not of age and you haven’t passed 
your test,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “And where have 
those girls got to?” 

She bustled out of the kitchen and they heard her 
climbing the stairs. 

“You have to pass a test to Apparate?” Harry asked. 



Page | 73 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh yes,” said Mr. Weasley, tucking the tickets safely 
into the back pocket of his jeans. “The Department of 
Magical Transportation had to fine a couple of people 
the other day for Apparating without a license. It’s not 
easy, Apparition, and when it’s not done properly it 
can lead to nasty complications. This pair I’m talking 
about went and splinched themselves.” 

Everyone around the table except Harry winced. 

“Er — splinched?” said Harry. 

“They left half of themselves behind,” said Mr. 

Weasley, now spooning large amounts of treacle onto 
his porridge. “So, of course, they were stuck. Couldn’t 
move either way. Had to wait for the Accidental Magic 
Reversal Squad to sort them out. Meant a fair old bit 
of paperwork, I can tell you, what with the Muggles 
who spotted the body parts they’d left behind. ...” 

Harry had a sudden vision of a pair of legs and an 
eyeball lying abandoned on the pavement of Privet 
Drive. 

“Were they okay?” he asked, startled. 

“Oh yes,” said Mr. Weasley matter-of-factly. “But they 
got a heavy fine, and I don’t think they’ll be trying it 
again in a hurry. You don’t mess around with 
Apparition. There are plenty of adult wizards who 
don’t bother with it. Prefer brooms — slower, but 
safer.” 

“But Bill and Charlie and Percy can all do it?” 

“Charlie had to take the test twice,” said Fred, 
grinning. “He failed the first time, Apparated five 
miles south of where he meant to, right on top of 
some poor old dear doing her shopping, remember?” 

Page | 74 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, well, he passed the second time,” said Mrs. 
Weasley, marching back into the kitchen amid hearty 
sniggers. 

“Percy only passed two weeks ago,” said George. “He’s 
been Apparating downstairs every morning since, just 
to prove he can.” 

There were footsteps down the passageway and 
Hermione and Ginny came into the kitchen, both 
looking pale and drowsy. 

“Why do we have to be up so early?” Ginny said, 
rubbing her eyes and sitting down at the table. 

“We’ve got a bit of a walk,” said Mr. Weasley. 

“Walk?” said Harry. “What, are we walking to the 
World Cup?” 

“No, no, that’s miles away,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling. 
“We only need to walk a short way. It’s just that it’s 
very difficult for a large number of wizards to 
congregate without attracting Muggle attention. We 
have to be very careful about how we travel at the 
best of times, and on a huge occasion like the 
Quidditch World Cup — ” 

“George!” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, and they all 
jumped. 

“What?” said George, in an innocent tone that 
deceived nobody. 

“What is that in your pocket?” 

“Nothing!” 

“Don’t you lie to me!” 

Page | 75 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley pointed her wand at George’s pocket 
and said, “Acciol” 

Several small, brightly colored objects zoomed out of 
George’s pocket; he made a grab for them but missed, 
and they sped right into Mrs. Weasley ’s outstretched 
hand. 

“We told you to destroy them!” said Mrs. Weasley 
furiously, holding up what were unmistakably more 
Ton-Tongue Toffees. “We told you to get rid of the lot! 
Empty your pockets, go on, both of you!” 

It was an unpleasant scene; the twins had evidently 
been trying to smuggle as many toffees out of the 
house as possible, and it was only by using her 
Summoning Charm that Mrs. Weasley managed to 
find them all. 

“Acciol Acciol Acciol” she shouted, and toffees zoomed 
from all sorts of unlikely places, including the lining 
of George’s jacket and the turn-ups of Fred’s jeans. 

“We spent six months developing those!” Fred 
shouted at his mother as she threw the toffees away. 

“Oh a fine way to spend six months!” she shrieked. 

“No wonder you didn’t get more O.W.L.s!” 

All in all, the atmosphere was not very friendly as 
they took their departure. Mrs. Weasley was still 
glowering as she kissed Mr. Weasley on the cheek, 
though not nearly as much as the twins, who had 
each hoisted their rucksacks onto their backs and 
walked out without a word to her. 

“Well, have a lovely time,” said Mrs. Weasley, “and 
behave yourselves,” she called after the twins’ 
retreating backs, but they did not look back or 

Page | 76 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




answer. “I’ll send Bill, Charlie, and Percy along 
around midday,” Mrs. Weasley said to Mr. Weasley, as 
he, Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny set off across 
the dark yard after Fred and George. 

It was chilly and the moon was still out. Only a dull, 
greenish tinge along the horizon to their right showed 
that daybreak was drawing closer. Harry, having been 
thinking about thousands of wizards speeding toward 
the Quidditch World Cup, sped up to walk with Mr. 
Weasley. 

“So how does everyone get there without all the 
Muggles noticing?” he asked. 

“It’s been a massive organizational problem,” sighed 
Mr. Weasley. “The trouble is, about a hundred 
thousand wizards turn up at the World Cup, and of 
course, we just haven’t got a magical site big enough 
to accommodate them all. There are places Muggles 
can’t penetrate, but imagine trying to pack a hundred 
thousand wizards into Diagon Alley or platform nine 
and three-quarters. So we had to find a nice deserted 
moor, and set up as many anti-Muggle precautions as 
possible. The whole Ministry’s been working on it for 
months. First, of course, we have to stagger the 
arrivals. People with cheaper tickets have to arrive 
two weeks beforehand. A limited number use Muggle 
transport, but we can’t have too many clogging up 
their buses and trains — remember, wizards are 
coming from all over the world. Some Apparate, of 
course, but we have to set up safe points for them to 
appear, well away from Muggles. I believe there’s a 
handy wood they’re using as the Apparition point. For 
those who don’t want to Apparate, or can’t, we use 
Portkeys. They’re objects that are used to transport 
wizards from one spot to another at a prearranged 
time. You can do large groups at a time if you need to. 
There have been two hundred Portkeys placed at 
Page | 77 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




strategic points around Britain, and the nearest one 
to us is up at the top of Stoatshead Hill, so that’s 
where we’re headed.” 

Mr. Weasley pointed ahead of them, where a large 
black mass rose beyond the village of Ottery St. 
Catchpole. 

“What sort of objects are Portkeys?” said Harry 
curiously. 

“Well, they can be anything,” said Mr. Weasley. 
“Unobtrusive things, obviously, so Muggles don’t go 
picking them up and playing with them . . . stuff they’ll 
just think is litter. ...” 

They trudged down the dark, dank lane toward the 
village, the silence broken only by their footsteps. The 
sky lightened very slowly as they made their way 
through the village, its inky blackness diluting to 
deepest blue. Harry’s hands and feet were freezing. 

Mr. Weasley kept checking his watch. 

They didn’t have breath to spare for talking as they 
began to climb Stoatshead Hill, stumbling 
occasionally in hidden rabbit holes, slipping on thick 
black tuffets of grass. Each breath Harry took was 
sharp in his chest and his legs were starting to seize 
up when, at last, his feet found level ground. 

“Whew,” panted Mr. Weasley, taking off his glasses 
and wiping them on his sweater. “Well, we’ve made 
good time — we’ve got ten minutes. ...” 

Hermione came over the crest of the hill last, 
clutching a stitch in her side. 



Page | 78 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Now we just need the Portkey,” said Mr. Weasley, 
replacing his glasses and squinting around at the 
ground. “It won’t be big. ... Come on ...” 

They spread out, searching. They had only been at it 
for a couple of minutes, however, when a shout rent 
the still air. 

“Over here, Arthur! Over here, son, we’ve got it!” 

Two tall figures were silhouetted against the starry 
sky on the other side of the hilltop. 

“Amos!” said Mr. Weasley, smiling as he strode over to 
the man who had shouted. The rest of them followed. 

Mr. Weasley was shaking hands with a ruddy-faced 
wizard with a scrubby brown beard, who was holding 
a moldy-looking old boot in his other hand. 

“This is Amos Diggory, everyone,” said Mr. Weasley. 
“He works for the Department for the Regulation and 
Control of Magical Creatures. And I think you know 
his son, Cedric?” 

Cedric Diggory was an extremely handsome boy of 
around seventeen. He was Captain and Seeker of the 
Hufflepuff House Quidditch team at Hogwarts. 

“Hi,” said Cedric, looking around at them all. 

Everybody said hi back except Fred and George, who 
merely nodded. They had never quite forgiven Cedric 
for beating their team, Gryffindor, in the first 
Quidditch match of the previous year. 

“Long walk, Arthur?” Cedric’s father asked. 



Page | 79 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Not too bad,” said Mr. Weasley. “We live just on the 
other side of the village there. You?” 

“Had to get up at two, didn’t we, Ced? I tell you, I’ll be 
glad when he’s got his Apparition test. Still ... not 
complaining ... Quidditch World Cup, wouldn’t miss it 
for a sackful of Galleons — and the tickets cost about 
that. Mind you, looks like I got off easy. ...” Amos 
Diggory peered good-naturedly around at the three 
Weasley boys, Harry, Hermione, and Ginny. “All these 
yours, Arthur?” 

“Oh no, only the redheads,” said Mr. Weasley, 
pointing out his children. “This is Hermione, friend of 
Ron’s — and Harry, another friend — ” 

“Merlin’s beard,” said Amos Diggory, his eyes 
widening. “Harry? Harry Potter?” 

“Er — yeah,” said Harry. 

Harry was used to people looking curiously at him 
when they met him, used to the way their eyes moved 
at once to the lightning scar on his forehead, but it 
always made him feel uncomfortable. 

“Ced’s talked about you, of course,” said Amos 
Diggory. “Told us all about playing against you last 
year. ... I said to him, I said — Ced, that’ll be 
something to tell your grandchildren, that will. ... You 
beat Harry Potterl” 

Harry couldn’t think of any reply to this, so he 
remained silent. Fred and George were both scowling 
again. Cedric looked slightly embarrassed. 

“Harry fell off his broom, Dad,” he muttered. “I told 
you ... it was an accident. ...” 



Page | 80 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, but you didn’t fall off, did you?” roared Amos 
genially, slapping his son on his back. “Always 
modest, our Ced, always the gentleman ... but the 
best man won, I’m sure Harry’d say the same, 
wouldn’t you, eh? One falls off his broom, one stays 
on, you don’t need to be a genius to tell which one’s 
the better flier!” 

“Must be nearly time,” said Mr. Weasley quickly, 
pulling out his watch again. “Do you know whether 
we’re waiting for any more, Amos?” 

“No, the Lovegoods have been there for a week already 
and the Fawcetts couldn’t get tickets,” said Mr. 
Diggory. “There aren’t any more of us in this area, are 
there?” 

“Not that I know of,” said Mr. Weasley. “Yes, it’s a 
minute off. ... We’d better get ready. ...” 

He looked around at Harry and Hermione. 

“You just need to touch the Portkey, that’s all, a 
finger will do — ” 

With difficulty, owing to their bulky backpacks, the 
nine of them crowded around the old boot held out by 
Amos Diggory. 

They all stood there, in a tight circle, as a chill breeze 
swept over the hilltop. Nobody spoke. It suddenly 
occurred to Harry how odd this would look if a 
Muggle were to walk up here now ... nine people, two 
of them grown men, clutching this manky old boot in 
the semidarkness, waiting. ... 

“Three ...” muttered Mr. Weasley, one eye still on his 
watch, “two ... one ...” 



Page | 81 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




It happened immediately: Harry felt as though a hook 
just behind his navel had been suddenly jerked 
irresistibly forward. His feet left the ground; he could 
feel Ron and Hermione on either side of him, their 
shoulders banging into his; they were all speeding 
forward in a howl of wind and swirling color; his 
forefinger was stuck to the boot as though it was 
pulling him magnetically onward and then — 

His feet slammed into the ground; Ron staggered into 
him and he fell over; the Portkey hit the ground near 
his head with a heavy thud. 

Harry looked up. Mr. Weasley, Mr. Diggory, and 
Cedric were still standing, though looking very 
windswept; everybody else was on the ground. 

“Seven past five from Stoatshead Hill,” said a voice. 



Page | 82 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




7 




BAGMAN AND CROUCH 

Harry disentangled himself from Ron and got to his 
feet. They had arrived on what appeared to be a 
deserted stretch of misty moor. In front of them was a 
pair of tired and grumpy-looking wizards, one of 
whom was holding a large gold watch, the other a 
thick roll of parchment and a quill. Both were dressed 
as Muggles, though very inexpertly: The man with the 
watch wore a tweed suit with thigh-length galoshes; 
his colleague, a kilt and a poncho. 

“Morning, Basil,” said Mr. Weasley, picking up the 
boot and handing it to the kilted wizard, who threw it 
into a large box of used Portkeys beside him; Harry 
could see an old newspaper, an empty drinks can, 
and a punctured football. 

“Hello there, Arthur,” said Basil wearily. “Not on duty, 
eh? It’s all right for some. ... We’ve been here all 
night. ... You’d better get out of the way, we’ve got a 
big party coming in from the Black Forest at five- 
fifteen. Hang on, I’ll find your campsite. ... Weasley ... 
Weasley ...” He consulted his parchment list. “About a 
Page | 83 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



quarter of a mile’s walk over there, first field you 
come to. Site manager’s called Mr. Roberts. Diggory ... 
second field ... ask for Mr. Payne.” 

“Thanks, Basil,” said Mr. Weasley, and he beckoned 
everyone to follow him. 

They set off across the deserted moor, unable to make 
out much through the mist. After about twenty 
minutes, a small stone cottage next to a gate swam 
into view. Beyond it, Harry could just make out the 
ghostly shapes of hundreds and hundreds of tents, 
rising up the gentle slope of a large field toward a 
dark wood on the horizon. They said good-bye to the 
Diggorys and approached the cottage door. 

A man was standing in the doorway, looking out at 
the tents. Harry knew at a glance that this was the 
only real Muggle for several acres. When he heard 
their footsteps, he turned his head to look at them. 

“Morning!” said Mr. Weasley brightly. 

“Morning,” said the Muggle. 

“Would you be Mr. Roberts?” 

“Aye, I would,” said Mr. Roberts. “And who’re you?” 

“Weasley — two tents, booked a couple of days ago?” 

“Aye,” said Mr. Roberts, consulting a list tacked to the 
door. “You’ve got a space up by the wood there. Just 
the one night?” 

“That’s it,” said Mr. Weasley. 

“You’ll be paying now, then?” said Mr. Roberts. 



Page | 84 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah — right — certainly — ” said Mr. Weasley. He 
retreated a short distance from the cottage and 
beckoned Harry toward him. “Help me, Harry,” he 
muttered, pulling a roll of Muggle money from his 
pocket and starting to peel the notes apart. “This 
one’s a — a — a ten? Ah yes, I see the little number 
on it now. ... So this is a five?” 

“A twenty,” Harry corrected him in an undertone, 
uncomfortably aware of Mr. Roberts trying to catch 
every word. 

“Ah yes, so it is. ... I don’t know, these little bits of 
paper ...” 

“You foreign?” said Mr. Roberts as Mr. Weasley 
returned with the correct notes. 

“Foreign?” repeated Mr. Weasley, puzzled. 

“You’re not the first one who’s had trouble with 
money,” said Mr. Roberts, scrutinizing Mr. Weasley 
closely. “I had two try and pay me with great gold 
coins the size of hubcaps ten minutes ago.” 

“Did you really?” said Mr. Weasley nervously. 

Mr. Roberts rummaged around in a tin for some 
change. 

“Never been this crowded,” he said suddenly, looking 
out over the misty field again. “Hundreds of pre- 
bookings. People usually just turn up. ...” 

“Is that right?” said Mr. Weasley, his hand held out 
for his change, but Mr. Roberts didn’t give it to him. 

“Aye,” he said thoughtfully. “People from all over. 
Loads of foreigners. And not just foreigners. Weirdos, 

Page | 85 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




you know? There’s a bloke walking ’round in a kilt 
and a poncho.” 

“Shouldn’t he?” said Mr. Weasley anxiously. 

“It’s like some sort of ... I dunno ... like some sort of 
rally,” said Mr. Roberts. “They all seem to know each 
other. Like a big party.” 

At that moment, a wizard in plus-fours appeared out 
of thin air next to Mr. Roberts’s front door. 

“Obliviate\” he said sharply, pointing his wand at Mr. 
Roberts. 

Instantly, Mr. Roberts’s eyes slid out of focus, his 
brows unknitted, and a look of dreamy unconcern fell 
over his face. Harry recognized the symptoms of one 
who had just had his memory modified. 

“A map of the campsite for you,” Mr. Roberts said 
placidly to Mr. Weasley. “And your change.” 

“Thanks very much,” said Mr. Weasley. 

The wizard in plus-fours accompanied them toward 
the gate to the campsite. He looked exhausted: His 
chin was blue with stubble and there were deep 
purple shadows under his eyes. Once out of earshot 
of Mr. Roberts, he muttered to Mr. Weasley, “Been 
having a lot of trouble with him. Needs a Memory 
Charm ten times a day to keep him happy. And Ludo 
Bagman’s not helping. Trotting around talking about 
Bludgers and Quaffles at the top of his voice, not a 
worry about anti-Muggle security. Blimey, I’ll be glad 
when this is over. See you later, Arthur.” 

He Disapparated. 



Page | 86 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I thought Mr. Bagman was Head of Magical Games 
and Sports,” said Ginny, looking surprised. “He 
should know better than to talk about Bludgers near 
Muggles, shouldn’t he?” 

“He should,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling, and leading 
them through the gates into the campsite, “but Ludo’s 
always been a bit ... well ... lax about security. You 
couldn’t wish for a more enthusiastic head of the 
sports department though. He played Quidditch for 
England himself, you know. And he was the best 
Beater the Wimbourne Wasps ever had.” 

They trudged up the misty field between long rows of 
tents. Most looked almost ordinary; their owners had 
clearly tried to make them as Muggle-like as possible, 
but had slipped up by adding chimneys, or bellpulls, 
or weather vanes. However, here and there was a tent 
so obviously magical that Harry could hardly be 
surprised that Mr. Roberts was getting suspicious. 
Halfway up the field stood an extravagant confection 
of striped silk like a miniature palace, with several 
live peacocks tethered at the entrance. A little farther 
on they passed a tent that had three floors and 
several turrets; and a short way beyond that was a 
tent that had a front garden attached, complete with 
birdbath, sundial, and fountain. 

“Always the same,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling. “We 
can’t resist showing off when we get together. Ah, 
here we are, look, this is us.” 

They had reached the very edge of the wood at the top 
of the field, and here was an empty space, with a 
small sign hammered into the ground that read 
WEEZLY. 

“Couldn’t have a better spot!” said Mr. Weasley 
happily. “The field is just on the other side of the 

Page | 87 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




wood there, we’re as close as we could be.” He hoisted 
his backpack from his shoulders. “Right,” he said 
excitedly, “no magic allowed, strictly speaking, not 
when we’re out in these numbers on Muggle land. 
We’ll be putting these tents up by hand! Shouldn’t be 
too difficult. ... Muggles do it all the time. ... Here, 
Harry, where do you reckon we should start?” 

Harry had never been camping in his life; the 
Dursleys had never taken him on any kind of holiday, 
preferring to leave him with Mrs. Figg, an old 
neighbor. However, he and Hermione worked out 
where most of the poles and pegs should go, and 
though Mr. Weasley was more of a hindrance than a 
help, because he got thoroughly overexcited when it 
came to using the mallet, they finally managed to 
erect a pair of shabby two-man tents. 

All of them stood back to admire their handiwork. 
Nobody looking at these tents would guess they 
belonged to wizards, Harry thought, but the trouble 
was that once Bill, Charlie, and Percy arrived, they 
would be a party of ten. Hermione seemed to have 
spotted this problem too; she gave Harry a quizzical 
look as Mr. Weasley dropped to his hands and knees 
and entered the first tent. 

“Well be a bit cramped,” he called, “but I think we’ll 
all squeeze in. Come and have a look.” 

Harry bent down, ducked under the tent flap, and felt 
his jaw drop. He had walked into what looked like an 
old-fashioned, three-room flat, complete with 
bathroom and kitchen. Oddly enough, it was 
furnished in exactly the same sort of style as Mrs. 
Figg’s house: There were crocheted covers on the 
mismatched chairs and a strong smell of cats. 



Page | 88 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, it’s not for long,” said Mr. Weasley, mopping his 
bald patch with a handkerchief and peering in at the 
four bunk beds that stood in the bedroom. “I 
borrowed this from Perkins at the office. Doesn’t 
camp much anymore, poor fellow, he’s got lumbago.” 

He picked up the dusty kettle and peered inside it. 
“Well need water. ...” 

“There’s a tap marked on this map the Muggle gave 
us,” said Ron, who had followed Harry inside the tent 
and seemed completely unimpressed by its 
extraordinary inner proportions. “It’s on the other 
side of the field.” 

“Well, why don’t you, Harry, and Hermione go and get 
us some water then” — Mr. Weasley handed over the 
kettle and a couple of saucepans — “and the rest of 
