nodded. 

“It was the thing, above all, that drew us together,” he 
said quietly. “Two clever, arrogant boys with a shared 
obsession. He wanted to come to Godric’s Hollow, as I 
am sure you have guessed, because of the grave of 
Ignotus Peverell. He wanted to explore the place the 
third brother had died.” 

“So it’s true?” asked Harry. “All of it? The Peverell 
brothers — ” 

Page | 809 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ — were the three brothers of the tale,” said 
Dumbledore, nodding. “Oh yes, I think so. Whether 
they met Death on a lonely road ... I think it more 
likely that the Peverell brothers were simply gifted, 
dangerous wizards who succeeded in creating those 
powerful objects. The story of them being Death’s own 
Hallows seems to me the sort of legend that might 
have sprung up around such creations. 

“The Cloak, as you know now, traveled down through 
the ages, father to son, mother to daughter, right 
down to Ignotus’s last living descendant, who was 
born, as Ignotus was, in the village of Godric’s 
Hollow.” 

Dumbledore smiled at Harry. 

“Me?” 

“You. You have guessed, I know, why the Cloak was 
in my possession on the night your parents died. 
James had showed it to me just a few days 
previously. It explained much of his undetected 
wrong-doing at school! I could hardly believe what I 
was seeing. I asked to borrow it, to examine it. I had 
long since given up my dream of uniting the Hallows, 
but I could not resist, could not help taking a closer 
look. ... It was a Cloak the likes of which I had never 
seen, immensely old, perfect in every respect . . . and 
then your father died, and I had two Hallows at last, 
all to myself!” 

His tone was unbearably bitter. 

“The Cloak wouldn’t have helped them survive, 
though,” Harry said quickly. “Voldemort knew where 
my mum and dad were. The Cloak couldn’t have 
made them curse-proof.” 



Page | 810 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“True,” sighed Dumbledore. “True.” 



Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak, so he 
prompted him. 

“So you’d given up looking for the Hallows when you 
saw the Cloak?” 

“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore faintly. It seemed that he 
forced himself to meet Harry’s eyes. “You know what 
happened. You know. You cannot despise me more 
than I despise myself.” 

“But I don’t despise you — ” 

“Then you should,” said Dumbledore. He drew a deep 
breath. “You know the secret of my sister’s ill health, 
what those Muggles did, what she became. You know 
how my poor father sought revenge, and paid the 
price, died in Azkaban. You know how my mother 
gave up her own life to care for Ariana. 

“I resented it, Harry.” 

Dumbledore stated it baldly, coldly. He was looking 
now over the top of Harry’s head, into the distance. 

“I was gifted, I was brilliant. I wanted to escape. I 
wanted to shine. I wanted glory. 

“Do not misunderstand me,” he said, and pain 
crossed the face so that he looked ancient again. “I 
loved them. I loved my parents, I loved my brother 
and my sister, but I was selfish, Harry, more selfish 
than you, who are a remarkably selfless person, could 
possibly imagine. 

“So that, when my mother died, and I was left the 
responsibility of a damaged sister and a wayward 

Page | 811 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




brother, I returned to my village in anger and 
bitterness. Trapped and wasted, I thought! And then, 
of course, he came. ...” 

Dumbledore looked directly into Harry’s eyes again. 

“Grindelwald. You cannot imagine how his ideas 
caught me, Harry, inflamed me. Muggles forced into 
subservience. We wizards triumphant. Grindelwald 
and I, the glorious young leaders of the revolution. 

“Oh, I had a few scruples. I assuaged my conscience 
with empty words. It would all be for the greater good, 
and any harm done would be repaid a hundredfold in 
benefits for wizards. Did I know, in my heart of 
hearts, what Gellert Grindelwald was? I think I did, 
but I closed my eyes. If the plans we were making 
came to fruition, all my dreams would come true. 

“And at the heart of our schemes, the Deathly 
Hallows! How they fascinated him, how they 
fascinated both of us! The unbeatable wand, the 
weapon that would lead us to power! The 
Resurrection Stone — to him, though I pretended not 
to know it, it meant an army of Inferi! To me, I 
confess, it meant the return of my parents, and the 
lifting of all responsibility from my shoulders. 

“And the Cloak ... somehow, we never discussed the 
Cloak much, Harry. Both of us could conceal 
ourselves well enough without the Cloak, the true 
magic of which, of course, is that it can be used to 
protect and shield others as well as its owner. I 
thought that, if we ever found it, it might be useful in 
hiding Ariana, but our interest in the Cloak was 
mainly that it completed the trio, for the legend said 
that the man who united all three objects would then 
be truly master of death, which we took to mean 
‘invincible.’ 

Page | 812 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Invincible masters of death, Grindelwald and 
Dumbledore! Two months of insanity, of cruel 
dreams, and neglect of the only two members of my 
family left to me. 

“And then ... you know what happened. Reality 
returned in the form of my rough, unlettered, and 
infinitely more admirable brother. I did not want to 
hear the truths he shouted at me. I did not want to 
hear that I could not set forth to seek Hallows with a 
fragile and unstable sister in tow. 

“The argument became a fight. Grindelwald lost 
control. That which I had always sensed in him, 
though I pretended not to, now sprang into terrible 
being. And Ariana . . . after all my mother’s care and 
caution ... lay dead upon the floor.” 

Dumbledore gave a little gasp and began to cry in 
earnest. Harry reached out and was glad to find that 
he could touch him: He gripped his arm tightly and 
Dumbledore gradually regained control. 

“Well, Grindelwald fled, as anyone but I could have 
predicted. He vanished, with his plans for seizing 
power, and his schemes for Muggle torture, and his 
dreams of the Deathly Hallows, dreams in which I 
had encouraged him and helped him. He ran, while I 
was left to bury my sister, and learn to live with my 
guilt and my terrible grief, the price of my shame. 

“Years passed. There were rumors about him. They 
said he had procured a wand of immense power. I, 
meanwhile, was offered the post of Minister of Magic, 
not once, but several times. Naturally, I refused. I had 
learned that I was not to be trusted with power.” 

“But you’d have been better, much better, than Fudge 
or Scrimgeour!” burst out Harry. 

Page | 813 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Would I?” asked Dumbledore heavily. “I am not so 
sure. I had proven, as a very young man, that power 
was my weakness and my temptation. It is a curious 
thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are best suited 
to power are those who have never sought it. Those 
who, like you, have leadership thrust upon them, and 
take up the mantle because they must, and find to 
their own surprise that they wear it well. 

“I was safer at Hogwarts. I think I was a good teacher 



“You were the best — ” 

“ — you are very kind, Harry. But while I busied 
myself with the training of young wizards, 

Grindelwald was raising an army. They say he feared 
me, and perhaps he did, but less, I think, than I 
feared him. 

“Oh, not death,” said Dumbledore, in answer to 
Harry’s questioning look. “Not what he could do to me 
magically. I knew that we were evenly matched, 
perhaps that I was a shade more skillful. It was the 
truth I feared. You see, I never knew which of us, in 
that last, horrific fight, had actually cast the curse 
that killed my sister. You may call me cowardly: You 
would be right. Harry, I dreaded beyond all things the 
knowledge that it had been I who brought about her 
death, not merely through my arrogance and 
stupidity, but that I actually struck the blow that 
snuffed out her life. 

“I think he knew it, I think he knew what frightened 
me. I delayed meeting him until finally, it would have 
been too shameful to resist any longer. People were 
dying and he seemed unstoppable, and I had to do 
what I could. 



Page | 814 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, you know what happened next. I won the duel. 

I won the wand.” 

Another silence. Harry did not ask whether 
Dumbledore had ever found out who struck Ariana 
dead. He did not want to know, and even less did he 
want Dumbledore to have to tell him. At last he knew 
what Dumbledore would have seen when he looked in 
the Mirror of Erised, and why Dumbledore had been 
so understanding of the fascination it had exercised 
over Harry. 

They sat in silence for a long time, and the 
whimperings of the creature behind them barely 
disturbed Harry anymore. 

At last he said, “Grindelwald tried to stop Voldemort 
going after the wand. He lied, you know, pretended he 
had never had it.” 

Dumbledore nodded, looking down at his lap, tears 
still glittering on the crooked nose. 

“They say he showed remorse in later years, alone in 
his cell at Nurmengard. I hope that it is true. I would 
like to think he did feel the horror and shame of what 
he had done. Perhaps that lie to Voldemort was his 
attempt to make amends ... to prevent Voldemort 
from taking the Hallow ...” 

"... or maybe from breaking into your tomb?” 
suggested Harry, and Dumbledore dabbed his eyes. 

After another short pause Harry said, “You tried to 
use the Resurrection Stone.” 

Dumbledore nodded. 



Page | 815 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“When I discovered it, after all those years, buried in 
the abandoned home of the Gaunts — the Hallow I 
had craved most of all, though in my youth I had 
wanted it for very different reasons — I lost my head, 
Harry. I quite forgot that it was now a Horcrux, that 
the ring was sure to carry a curse. I picked it up, and 
I put it on, and for a second I imagined that I was 
about to see Ariana, and my mother, and my father, 
and to tell them how very, very sorry I was. ... 

“I was such a fool, Harry. After all those years I had 
learned nothing. I was unworthy to unite the Deathly 
Hallows, I had proved it time and again, and here was 
final proof.” 

“Why?” said Harry. “It was natural! You wanted to see 
them again. What’s wrong with that?” 

“Maybe a man in a million could unite the Hallows, 
Harry. I was fit only to possess the meanest of them, 
the least extraordinary. I was fit to own the Elder 
Wand, and not to boast of it, and not to kill with it. I 
was permitted to tame and to use it, because I took it, 
not for gain, but to save others from it. 

“But the Cloak, I took out of vain curiosity, and so it 
could never have worked for me as it works for you, 
its true owner. The stone I would have used in an 
attempt to drag back those who are at peace, rather 
than to enable my self-sacrifice, as you did. You are 
the worthy possessor of the Hallows.” 

Dumbledore patted Harry’s hand, and Harry looked 
up at the old man and smiled; he could not help 
himself. How could he remain angry with Dumbledore 
now? 

“Why did you have to make it so difficult?” 



Page | 816 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore’s smile was tremulous. 



“I am afraid I counted on Miss Granger to slow you 
up, Harry. I was afraid that your hot head might 
dominate your good heart. I was scared that, if 
presented outright with the facts about those 
tempting objects, you might seize the Hallows as I 
did, at the wrong time, for the wrong reasons. If you 
laid hands on them, I wanted you to possess them 
safely. You are the true master of death, because the 
true master does not seek to run away from Death. 

He accepts that he must die, and understands that 
there are far, far worse things in the living world than 
dying.” 

“And Voldemort never knew about the Hallows?” 

“I do not think so, because he did not recognize the 
Resurrection Stone he turned into a Horcrux. But 
even if he had known about them, Harry, I doubt that 
he would have been interested in any except the first. 
He would not think that he needed the Cloak, and as 
for the stone, whom would he want to bring back 
from the dead? He fears the dead. He does not love.” 

“But you expected him to go after the wand?” 

“I have been sure that he would try, ever since your 
wand beat Voldemort’s in the graveyard of Little 
Hangleton. At first, he was afraid that you had 
conquered him by superior skill. Once he had 
kidnapped Ollivander, however, he discovered the 
existence of the twin cores. He thought that explained 
everything. Yet the borrowed wand did no better 
against yours! So Voldemort, instead of asking 
himself what quality it was in you that had made your 
wand so strong, what gift you possessed that he did 
not, naturally set out to find the one wand that, they 
said, would beat any other. For him, the Elder Wand 
Page | 817 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




has become an obsession to rival his obsession with 
you. He believes that the Elder Wand removes his last 
weakness and makes him truly invincible. Poor 
Severus ...” 

“If you planned your death with Snape, you meant 
him to end up with the Elder Wand, didn’t you?” 

“I admit that was my intention,” said Dumbledore, 
“but it did not work as I intended, did it?” 

“No,” said Harry. “That bit didn’t work out.” 

The creature behind them jerked and moaned, and 
Harry and Dumbledore sat without talking for the 
longest time yet. The realization of what would 
happen next settled gradually over Harry in the long 
minutes, like softly falling snow. 

“I’ve got to go back, haven’t I?” 

“That is up to you.” 

“I’ve got a choice?” 

“Oh yes.” Dumbledore smiled at him. “We are in 
King’s Cross, you say? I think that if you decided not 
to go back, you would be able to ... let’s say ... board 
a train.” 

“And where would it take me?” 

“On,” said Dumbledore simply. 

Silence again. 

“Voldemort’s got the Elder Wand.” 

“True. Voldemort has the Elder Wand.” 

Page | 818 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But you want me to go back?” 

“I think,” said Dumbledore, “that if you choose to 
return, there is a chance that he may be finished for 
good. I cannot promise it. But I know this, Harry, that 
you have less to fear from returning here than he 
does.” 

Harry glanced again at the raw-looking thing that 
trembled and choked in the shadow beneath the 
distant chair. 

“Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, 
above all, those who live without love. By returning, 
you may ensure that fewer souls are maimed, fewer 
families are torn apart. If that seems to you a worthy 
goal, then we say good-bye for the present.” 

Harry nodded and sighed. Leaving this place would 
not be nearly as hard as walking into the forest had 
been, but it was warm and light and peaceful here, 
and he knew that he was heading back to pain and 
the fear of more loss. He stood up, and Dumbledore 
did the same, and they looked for a long moment into 
each other’s faces. 

“Tell me one last thing,” said Harry. “Is this real? Or 
has this been happening inside my head?” 

Dumbledore beamed at him, and his voice sounded 
loud and strong in Harry’s ears even though the 
bright mist was descending again, obscuring his 
figure. 

“Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, 
but why on earth should that mean that it is not 
real?” * 



Page | 819 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE FLAW IN THE PLAN 

He was lying facedown on the ground again. The 
smell of the forest filled his nostrils. He could feel the 
cold hard ground beneath his cheek, and the hinge of 
his glasses, which had been knocked sideways by the 
fall, cutting into his temple. Every inch of him ached, 
and the place where the Killing Curse had hit him felt 
like the bruise of an iron-clad punch. He did not stir, 
but remained exactly where he had fallen, with his 
left arm bent out at an awkward angle and his mouth 
gaping. 

He had expected to hear cheers of triumph and 
jubilation at his death, but instead hurried footsteps, 
whispers, and solicitous murmurs filled the air. 

“My Lord ...my Lord ...” 

It was Bellatrix’s voice, and she spoke as if to a lover. 
Harry did not dare open his eyes, but allowed his 
other senses to explore his predicament. He knew 
that his wand was still stowed beneath his robes 
because he could feel it pressed between his chest 

Page | 820 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



and the ground. A slight cushioning effect in the area 
of his stomach told him that the Invisibility Cloak was 
also there, stuffed out of sight. 

“My Lord ...” 

“That will do,” said Voldemort’s voice. 

More footsteps: Several people were backing away 
from the same spot. Desperate to see what was 
happening and why, Harry opened his eyes by a 
millimeter. 

Voldemort seemed to be getting to his feet. Various 
Death Eaters were hurrying away from him, returning 
to the crowd lining the clearing. Bellatrix alone 
remained behind, kneeling beside Voldemort. 

Harry closed his eyes again and considered what he 
had seen. The Death Eaters had been huddled 
around Voldemort, who seemed to have fallen to the 
ground. Something had happened when he had hit 
Harry with the Killing Curse. Had Voldemort too 
collapsed? It seemed like it. And both of them had 
fallen briefly unconscious and both of them had now 
returned. ... 

“My Lord, let me — ” 

“I do not require assistance,” said Voldemort coldly, 
and though he could not see it, Harry pictured 
Bellatrix withdrawing a helpful hand. “The boy ... Is 
he dead?” 

There was complete silence in the clearing. Nobody 
approached Harry, but he felt their concentrated gaze; 
it seemed to press him harder into the ground, and he 
was terrified a finger or an eyelid might twitch. 



Page | 821 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You,” said Voldemort, and there was a bang and a 
small shriek of pain. “Examine him. Tell me whether 
he is dead.” 

Harry did not know who had been sent to verify. He 
could only lie there, with his heart thumping 
traitorously, and wait to be examined, but at the 
same time noting, small comfort though it was, that 
Voldemort was wary of approaching him, that 
Voldemort suspected that all had not gone to plan. ... 

Hands, softer than he had been expecting, touched 
Harry’s face, pulled back an eyelid, crept beneath his 
shirt, down to his chest, and felt his heart. He could 
hear the woman’s fast breathing, her long hair tickled 
his face. He knew that she could feel the steady 
pounding of life against his ribs. 

“Is Draco alive? Is he in the castle?” 

The whisper was barely audible; her lips were an inch 
from his ear, her head bent so low that her long hair 
shielded his face from the onlookers. 

“Yes,” he breathed back. 

He felt the hand on his chest contract; her nails 
pierced him. Then it was withdrawn. She had sat up. 

“He is dead!” Narcissa Malfoy called to the watchers. 

And now they shouted, now they yelled in triumph 
and stamped their feet, and through his eyelids, 

Harry saw bursts of red and silver light shoot into the 
air in celebration. 

Still feigning death on the ground, he understood. 
Narcissa knew that the only way she would be 
permitted to enter Hogwarts, and find her son, was as 

Page | 822 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




part of the conquering army. She no longer cared 
whether Voldemort won. 

“You see?” screeched Voldemort over the tumult. 
“Harry Potter is dead by my hand, and no man alive 
can threaten me now! Watch! CrucioV’ 

Harry had been expecting it, knew his body would not 
be allowed to remain unsullied upon the forest floor; 
it must be subjected to humiliation to prove 
Voldemort’s victory. He was lifted into the air, and it 
took all his determination to remain limp, yet the pain 
he expected did not come. He was thrown once, twice, 
three times into the air: His glasses flew off and he 
felt his wand slide a little beneath his robes, but he 
kept himself floppy and lifeless, and when he fell to 
the ground for the last time, the clearing echoed with 
jeers and shrieks of laughter. 

“Now,” said Voldemort, “we go to the castle, and show 
them what has become of their hero. Who shall drag 
the body? No — Wait — ” 

There was a fresh outbreak of laughter, and after a 
few moments Harry felt the ground trembling beneath 
him. 

“You carry him,” Voldemort said. “He will be nice and 
visible in your arms, will he not? Pick up your little 
friend, Hagrid. And the glasses — put on the glasses 
— he must be recognizable — ” 

Someone slammed Harry’s glasses back onto his face 
with deliberate force, but the enormous hands that 
lifted him into the air were exceedingly gentle. Harry 
could feel Hagrid ’s arms trembling with the force of 
his heaving sobs; great tears splashed down upon 
him as Hagrid cradled Harry in his arms, and Harry 



Page | 823 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




did not dare, by movement or word, to intimate to 
Hagrid that all was not, yet, lost. 

“Move,” said Voldemort, and Hagrid stumbled 
forward, forcing his way through the close-growing 
trees, back through the forest. Branches caught at 
Harry’s hair and robes, but he lay quiescent, his 
mouth lolling open, his eyes shut, and in the 
darkness, while the Death Eaters crowed all around 
them, and while Hagrid sobbed blindly, nobody 
looked to see whether a pulse beat in the exposed 
neck of Harry Potter. . . . 

The two giants crashed along behind the Death 
Eaters; Harry could hear trees creaking and falling as 
they passed; they made so much din that birds rose 
shrieking into the sky, and even the jeers of the Death 
Eaters were drowned. The victorious procession 
marched on toward the open ground, and after a 
while Harry could tell, by the lightening of the 
darkness through his closed eyelids, that the trees 
were beginning to thin. 

“BANE!” 

Hagrid’s unexpected bellow nearly forced Harry’s eyes 
open. “Happy now, are yeh, that yeh didn’ fight, yeh 
cowardly bunch o’ nags? Are yeh happy Harry Potter’s 
— d-dead...?” 

Hagrid could not continue, but broke down in fresh 
tears. Harry wondered how many centaurs were 
watching their procession pass; he dared not open his 
eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called insults 
at the centaurs as they left them behind. A little later, 
Harry sensed, by a freshening of the air, that they 
had reached the edge of the forest. 

“Stop.” 

Page | 824 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry thought that Hagrid must have been forced to 
obey Voldemort’s command, because he lurched a 
little. And now a chill settled over them where they 
stood, and Harry heard the rasping breath of the 
dementors that patrolled the outer trees. They would 
not affect him now. The fact of his own survival 
burned inside him, a talisman against them, as 
though his father’s stag kept guardian in his heart. 

Someone passed close by Harry, and he knew that it 
was Voldemort himself because he spoke a moment 
later, his voice magically magnified so that it swelled 
through the grounds, crashing upon Harry’s 
eardrums. 

“Harry Potter is dead. He was killed as he ran away, 
trying to save himself while you lay down your lives 
for him. We bring you his body as proof that your 
hero is gone. 

“The battle is won. You have lost half of your fighters. 
My Death Eaters outnumber you, and the Boy Who 
Lived is finished. There must be no more war. Anyone 
who continues to resist, man, woman, or child, will be 
slaughtered, as will every member of their family. 
Come out of the castle now, kneel before me, and you 
shall be spared. Your parents and children, your 
brothers and sisters will live and be forgiven, and you 
will join me in the new world we shall build together.” 

There was silence in the grounds and from the castle. 
Voldemort was so close to him that Harry did not dare 
open his eyes again. 

“Come,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard him move 
ahead, and Hagrid was forced to follow. Now Harry 
opened his eyes a fraction, and saw Voldemort 
striding in front of them, wearing the great snake 
Nagini around his shoulders, now free of her 
Page | 825 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




enchanted cage. But Harry had no possibility of 
extracting the wand concealed under his robes 
without being noticed by the Death Eaters, who 
marched on either side of them through the slowly 
lightening darkness. ... 

“Harry,” sobbed Hagrid. “Oh, Harry ... Harry ...” 

Harry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they 
were approaching the castle and strained his ears to 
distinguish, above the gleeful voices of the Death 
Eaters and their tramping footsteps, signs of life from 
those within. 

“Stop.” 

The Death Eaters came to a halt: Harry heard them 
spreading out in a line facing the open front doors of 
the school. He could see, even through his closed lids, 
the reddish glow that meant light streamed upon him 
from the entrance hall. He waited. Any moment, the 
people for whom he had tried to die would see him, 
lying apparently dead, in Hagrid ’s arms. 

“NO!” 

The scream was the more terrible because he had 
never expected or dreamed that Professor McGonagall 
could make such a sound. He heard another woman 
laughing nearby, and knew that Bellatrix gloried in 
McGonagall’s despair. He squinted again for a single 
second and saw the open doorway filling with people, 
as the survivors of the battle came out onto the front 
steps to face their vanquishers and see the truth of 
Harry’s death for themselves. He saw Voldemort 
standing a little in front of him, stroking Nagini’s 
head with a single white finger. He closed his eyes 
again. 



Page | 826 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No!” 



“iVo!” 

“Harry! HARRY!” 

Ron’s, Hermione’s, and Ginny’s voices were worse 
than McGonagall’s; Harry wanted nothing more than 
to call back, yet he made himself lie silent, and their 
cries acted like a trigger; the crowd of survivors took 
up the cause, screaming and yelling abuse at the 
Death Eaters, until — 

“SILENCE!” cried Voldemort, and there was a bang 
and a flash of bright light, and silence was forced 
upon them all. “It is over! Set him down, Hagrid, at 
my feet, where he belongs!” 

Harry felt himself lowered onto the grass. 

“You see?” said Voldemort, and Harry felt him striding 
backward and forward right beside the place where he 
lay. “Harry Potter is dead! Do you understand now, 
deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, but a boy who 
relied on others to sacrifice themselves for him!” 

“He beat you!” yelled Ron, and the charm broke, and 
the defenders of Hogwarts were shouting and 
screaming again until a second, more powerful bang 
extinguished their voices once more. 

“He was killed while trying to sneak out of the castle 
grounds,” said Voldemort, and there was relish in his 
voice for the lie, “killed while trying to save himself — ” 

But Voldemort broke off: Harry heard a scuffle and a 
shout, then another bang, a flash of light, and a grunt 
of pain; he opened his eyes an infinitesimal amount. 
Someone had broken free of the crowd and charged at 

Page | 827 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort: Harry saw the figure hit the ground, 
Disarmed, Voldemort throwing the challenger’s wand 
aside and laughing. 

“And who is this?” he said in his soft snake’s hiss. 
“Who has volunteered to demonstrate what happens 
to those who continue to fight when the battle is 
lost?” 

Bellatrix gave a delighted laugh. 

“It is Neville Longbottom, my Lord! The boy who has 
been giving the Carrows so much trouble! The son of 
the Aurors, remember?” 

“Ah, yes, I remember,” said Voldemort, looking down 
at Neville, who was struggling back to his feet, 
unarmed and unprotected, standing in the no-man ’s- 
land between the survivors and the Death Eaters. 

“But you are a pureblood, aren’t you, my brave boy?” 
Voldemort asked Neville, who stood facing him, his 
empty hands curled in fists. 

“So what if I am?” said Neville loudly. 

“You show spirit and bravery, and you come of noble 
stock. You will make a very valuable Death Eater. We 
need your kind, Neville Longbottom.” 

“I’ll join you when hell freezes over,” said Neville. 
“Dumbledore’s Army!” he shouted, and there was an 
answering cheer from the crowd, whom Voldemort’s 
Silencing Charms seemed unable to hold. 

“Very well,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard more 
danger in the silkiness of his voice than in the most 
powerful curse. “If that is your choice, Longbottom, 
we revert to the original plan. On your head,” he said 
quietly, “be it.” 

Page | 828 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Still watching through his lashes, Harry saw 
Voldemort wave his wand. Seconds later, out of one of 
the castle’s shattered windows, something that looked 
like a misshapen bird flew through the half light and 
landed in Voldemort’s hand. He shook the mildewed 
object by its pointed end and it dangled, empty and 
ragged: the Sorting Hat. 

“There will be no more Sorting at Hogwarts School,” 
said Voldemort. “There will be no more Houses. The 
emblem, shield, and colors of my noble ancestor, 
Salazar Slytherin, will suffice for everyone. Won’t 
they, Neville Longbottom?” 

He pointed his wand at Neville, who grew rigid and 
still, then forced the hat onto Neville’s head, so that it 
slipped down below his eyes. There were movements 
from the watching crowd in front of the castle, and as 
one, the Death Eaters raised their wands, holding the 
fighters of Hogwarts at bay. 

“Neville here is now going to demonstrate what 
happens to anyone foolish enough to continue to 
oppose me,” said Voldemort, and with a flick of his 
wand, he caused the Sorting Hat to burst into flames. 

Screams split the dawn, and Neville was aflame, 
rooted to the spot, unable to move, and Harry could 
not bear it: He must act — 

And then many things happened at the same 
moment. 

They heard uproar from the distant boundary of the 
school as what sounded like hundreds of people came 
swarming over the out-of-sight walls and pelted 
toward the castle, uttering loud war cries. At the 
same time, Grawp came lumbering around the side of 
the castle and yelled, “HAGGER!” His cry was 
Page | 829 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




answered by roars from Voldemort’s giants: They ran 
at Grawp like bull elephants, making the earth quake. 
Then came hooves and the twangs of bows, and 
arrows were suddenly falling amongst the Death 
Eaters, who broke ranks, shouting their surprise. 
Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak from inside his 
robes, swung it over himself, and sprang to his feet, 
as Neville moved too. 

In one swift, fluid motion, Neville broke free of the 
Body-Bind Curse upon him; the flaming hat fell off 
him and he drew from its depths something silver, 
with a glittering, rubied handle — 

The slash of the silver blade could not be heard over 
the roar of the oncoming crowd or the sounds of the 
clashing giants or of the stampeding centaurs, and 
yet it seemed to draw every eye. With a single stroke 
Neville sliced off the great snake’s head, which spun 
high into the air, gleaming in the light flooding from 
the entrance hall, and Voldemort’s mouth was open 
in a scream of fury that nobody could hear, and the 
snake’s body thudded to the ground at his feet — 

Hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry cast a 
Shield Charm between Neville and Voldemort before 
the latter could raise his wand. Then, over the 
screams and the roars and the thunderous stamps of 
the battling giants, Hagrid’s yell came loudest of all. 

“HARRY!” Hagrid shouted. “HARRY — WHERE’S 
HARRY?” 

Chaos reigned. The charging centaurs were scattering 
the Death Eaters, everyone was fleeing the giants’ 
stamping feet, and nearer and nearer thundered the 
reinforcements that had come from who knew where; 
Harry saw great winged creatures soaring around the 
heads of Voldemort’s giants, thestrals and Buckbeak 
Page | 830 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the hippogriff scratching at their eyes while Grawp 
punched and pummeled them; and now the wizards, 
defenders of Hogwarts and Death Eaters alike, were 
being forced back into the castle. Harry was shooting 
jinxes and curses at any Death Eater he could see, 
and they crumpled, not knowing what or who had hit 
them, and their bodies were trampled by the 
retreating crowd. 

Still hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry was 
buffeted into the entrance hall: He was searching for 
Voldemort and saw him across the room, firing spells 
from his wand as he backed into the Great Hall, still 
screaming instructions to his followers as he sent 
curses flying left and right; Harry cast more Shield 
Charms, and Voldemort’s would-be victims, Seamus 
Finnigan and Hannah Abbott, darted past him into 
the Great Hall, where they joined the fight already 
flourishing inside it. 

And now there were more, even more people storming 
up the front steps, and Harry saw Charlie Weasley 
overtaking Horace Slughorn, who was still wearing 
his emerald pajamas. They seemed to have returned 
at the head of what looked like the families and 
friends of every Hogwarts student who had remained 
to fight, along with the shopkeepers and homeowners 
of Hogsmeade. The centaurs Bane, Ronan, and 
Magorian burst into the hall with a great clatter of 
hooves, as behind Harry the door that led to the 
kitchens was blasted off its hinges. 

The house-elves of Hogwarts swarmed into the 
entrance hall, screaming and waving carving knives 
and cleavers, and at their head, the locket of Regulus 
Black bouncing on his chest, was Kreacher, his 
bullfrog’s voice audible even above this din: “Fight! 
Fight! Fight for my Master, defender of house-elves! 
