they climbed as fast as they could. The stairs opened 
onto a sitting room with a threadbare carpet and a 
small fireplace, above which hung a single large oil 
painting of a blonde girl who gazed out at the room 
with a kind of vacant sweetness. 

Shouts reached them from the street below. Still 
wearing the Invisibility Cloak, they crept toward the 
grimy window and looked down. Their savior, whom 

Page | 629 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry now recognized as the Hog’s Head’s barman, 
was the only person not wearing a hood. 

“So what?” he was bellowing into one of the hooded 
faces. “So what? You send dementors down my street, 
I’ll send a Patronus back at ’em! I’m not having ’em 
near me, I’ve told you that, I’m not having it!” 

“That wasn’t your Patronus!” said a Death Eater. 

“That was a stag, it was Potter’s!” 

“Stag!” roared the barman, and he pulled out a wand. 
“Stag! You idiot — Expecto Patronum .!” 

Something huge and horned erupted from the wand: 
Head down, it charged toward the High Street and out 
of sight. 

“That’s not what I saw — ” said the Death Eater, 
though with less certainty. 

“Curfew’s been broken, you heard the noise,” one of 
his companions told the barman. “Someone was out 
in the street against regulations — ” 

“If I want to put my cat out, I will, and be damned to 
your curfew!” 

“ You set off the Caterwauling Charm?” 

“What if I did? Going to cart me off to Azkaban? Kill 
me for sticking my nose out my own front door? Do it, 
then, if you want to! But I hope for your sakes you 
haven’t pressed your little Dark Marks and 
summoned him. He’s not going to like being called 
here for me and my old cat, is he, now?” 

“Don’t you worry about us,” said one of the Death 
Eaters, “worry about yourself, breaking curfew!” 

Page | 630 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“And where will you lot traffick potions and poisons 
when my pub’s closed down? What’ll happen to your 
little sidelines then?” 



“Are you threatening — ?” 



“I keep my mouth shut, it’s why you come here, isn’t 
it?” 



“I still say I saw a stag Patronus!” shouted the first 
Death Eater. 

“Stag?” roared the barman. “It’s a goat, idiot!” 

“All right, we made a mistake,” said the second Death 
Eater. “Break curfew again and we won’t be so 
lenient!” 

The Death Eaters strode back toward the High Street. 
Hermione moaned with relief, wove out from under 
the Cloak, and sat down on a wobble-legged chair. 
Harry drew the curtains tight shut, then pulled the 
Cloak off himself and Ron. They could hear the 
barman down below, rebolting the door of the bar, 
then climbing the stairs. 

Harry’s attention was caught by something on the 
mantelpiece: a small, rectangular mirror propped on 
top of it, right beneath the portrait of the girl. 

The barman entered the room. 

“You bloody fools,” he said gruffly, looking from one to 
the other of them. “What were you thinking, coming 
here?” 

“Thank you,” said Harry. “We can’t thank you 
enough. You saved our lives.” 

Page | 631 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The barman grunted. Harry approached him, looking 
up into the face, trying to see past the long, stringy, 
wire-gray hair and beard. He wore spectacles. Behind 
the dirty lenses, the eyes were a piercing, brilliant 
blue. 

“It’s your eye I’ve been seeing in the mirror.” 

There was silence in the room. Harry and the barman 
looked at each other. 

“You sent Dobby.” 

The barman nodded and looked around for the elf. 

“Thought he’d be with you. Where Ve you left him?” 

“He’s dead,” said Harry. “Bellatrix Lestrange killed 
him.” 

The barman’s face was impassive. After a few 
moments he said, “I’m sorry to hear it. I liked that 
elf.” 

He turned away, lighting lamps with prods of his 
wand, not looking at any of them. 

“You’re Aberforth,” said Harry to the man’s back. 

He neither confirmed nor denied it, but bent to light 
the fire. 

“How did you get this?” Harry asked, walking across 
to Sirius’s mirror, the twin of the one he had broken 
nearly two years before. “Bought it from Dung ’bout a 
year ago,” said Aberforth. “Albus told me what it was. 
Been trying to keep an eye out for you.” 

Ron gasped. 

Page | 632 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“The silver doe!” he said excitedly. “Was that you too?” 

“What are you talking about?” said Aberforth. 

“Someone sent a doe Patronus to us!” 

“Brains like that, you could be a Death Eater, son. 
Haven’t I just proved my Patronus is a goat?” 

“Oh,” said Ron. “Yeah ... well, I’m hungry!” he added 
defensively as his stomach gave an enormous rumble. 

“I got food,” said Aberforth, and he sloped out of the 
room, reappearing moments later with a large loaf of 
bread, some cheese, and a pewter jug of mead, which 
he set upon a small table in front of the fire. 

Ravenous, they ate and drank, and for a while there 
was silence but for the crackle of the fire, the clink of 
goblets, and the sound of chewing. 

“Right then,” said Aberforth when they had eaten 
their fill, and Harry and Ron sat slumped dozily in 
their chairs. “We need to think of the best way to get 
you out of here. Can’t be done by night, you heard 
what happens if anyone moves outdoors during 
darkness: Caterwauling Charm’s set off, they’ll be 
onto you like bow-truckles on doxy eggs. I don’t 
reckon I’ll be able to pass off a stag as a goat a second 
time. Wait for daybreak when curfew lifts, then you 
can put your Cloak back on and set out on foot. Get 
right out of Hogsmeade, up into the mountains, and 
you’ll be able to Disapparate there. Might see Hagrid. 
He’s been hiding in a cave up there with Grawp ever 
since they tried to arrest him.” 

“We’re not leaving,” said Harry. “We need to get into 
Hogwarts.” 

“Don’t be stupid, boy,” said Aberforth. 

Page | 633 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We’ve got to,” said Harry. 



“What you’ve got to do,” said Aberforth, leaning 
forward, “is to get as far from here as you can.” 

“You don’t understand. There isn’t much time. We’ve 
got to get into the castle. Dumbledore — I mean, your 
brother — wanted us — ” 

The firelight made the grimy lenses of Aberforth ’s 
glasses momentarily opaque, a bright flat white, and 
Harry remembered the blind eyes of the giant spider, 
Aragog. 

“My brother Albus wanted a lot of things,” said 
Aberforth, “and people had a habit of getting hurt 
while he was carrying out his grand plans. You get 
away from this school, Potter, and out of the country 
if you can. Forget my brother and his clever schemes. 
He’s gone where none of this can hurt him, and you 
don’t owe him anything.” 

“You don’t understand,” said Harry again. 

“Oh, don’t I?” said Aberforth quietly. “You don’t think 
I understood my own brother? Think you knew Albus 
better than I did?” 

“I didn’t mean that,” said Harry, whose brain felt 
sluggish with exhaustion and from the surfeit of food 
and wine. “It’s ... he left me a job.” 

“Did he now?” said Aberforth. “Nice job, I hope? 
Pleasant? Easy? Sort of thing you’d expect an 
unqualified wizard kid to be able to do without 
overstretching themselves?” 

Ron gave a rather grim laugh. Hermione was looking 
strained. 

Page | 634 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I-it’s not easy, no,” said Harry. “But I’ve got to — ” 

“ ‘Got to’? Why ‘got to*? He’s dead, isn’t he?” said 
Aberforth roughly. “Let it go, boy, before you follow 
him! Save yourself!” 

“I can’t.” 

“Why not?” 

“I — ” Harry felt overwhelmed; he could not explain, so 
he took the offensive instead. “But you’re fighting too, 
you’re in the Order of the Phoenix — ” 

“I was,” said Aberforth. “The Order of the Phoenix is 
finished. You-Know-Who’s won, it’s over, and anyone 
who’s pretending different’s kidding themselves. It’ll 
never be safe for you here, Potter, he wants you too 
badly. So go abroad, go into hiding, save yourself. 

Best take these two with you.” He jerked a thumb at 
Ron and Hermione. “They’ll be in danger long as they 
live now everyone knows they’ve been working with 
you.” 

“I can’t leave,” said Harry. “I’ve got a job — ” 

“Give it to someone else!” 

“I can’t. It’s got to be me, Dumbledore explained it all 



“Oh, did he now? And did he tell you everything, was 
he honest with you?” 

Harry wanted with all his heart to say “Yes,” but 
somehow the simple word would not rise to his lips. 
Aberforth seemed to know what he was thinking. 



Page | 635 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I knew my brother, Potter. He learned secrecy at our 
mother’s knee. Secrets and lies, that’s how we grew 
up, and Albus ... he was a natural.” 

The old man’s eyes traveled to the painting of the girl 
over the mantelpiece. It was, now Harry looked 
around properly, the only picture in the room. There 
was no photograph of Albus Dumbledore, nor of 
anyone else. 

“Mr. Dumbledore?” said Hermione rather timidly. “Is 
that your sister? Ariana?” 

“Yes,” said Aberforth tersely. “Been reading Rita 
Skeeter, have you, missy?” 

Even by the rosy light of the fire it was clear that 
Hermione had turned red. 

“Elphias Doge mentioned her to us,” said Harry, 
trying to spare Hermione. 

“That old berk,” muttered Aberforth, taking another 
swig of mead. “Thought the sun shone out of my 
brother’s every orifice, he did. Well, so did plenty of 
people, you three included, by the looks of it.” 

Harry kept quiet. He did not want to express the 
doubts and uncertainties about Dumbledore that had 
riddled him for months now. He had made his choice 
while he dug Dobby’s grave, he had decided to 
continue along the winding, dangerous path indicated 
for him by Albus Dumbledore, to accept that he had 
not been told everything that he wanted to know, but 
simply to trust. He had no desire to doubt again; he 
did not want to hear anything that would deflect him 
from his purpose. He met Aberforth ’s gaze, which was 
so strikingly like his brother’s: The bright blue eyes 
gave the same impression that they were X-raying the 
Page | 636 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




object of their scrutiny, and Harry thought that 
Aberforth knew what he was thinking and despised 
him for it. 

“Professor Dumbledore cared about Harry, very 
much,” said Hermione in a low voice. 

“Did he now?” said Aberforth. “Funny thing, how 
many of the people my brother cared about very 
much ended up in a worse state than if he’d left ’em 
well alone.” 

“What do you mean?” asked Hermione breathlessly. 

“Never you mind,” said Aberforth. 

“But that’s a really serious thing to say!” said 
Hermione. “Are you — are you talking about your 
sister?” 

Aberforth glared at her: His lips moved as if he were 
chewing the words he was holding back. Then he 
burst into speech. 

“When my sister was six years old, she was attacked, 
set upon, by three Muggle boys. They’d seen her 
doing magic, spying through the back garden hedge: 
She was a kid, she couldn’t control it, no witch or 
wizard can at that age. What they saw scared them, I 
expect. They forced their way through the hedge, and 
when she couldn’t show them the trick, they got a bit 
carried away trying to stop the little freak doing it.” 

Hermione ’s eyes were huge in the firelight; Ron looked 
slightly sick. Aberforth stood up, tall as Albus, and 
suddenly terrible in his anger and the intensity of his 
pain. 



Page | 637 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“It destroyed her, what they did: She was never right 
again. She wouldn’t use magic, but she couldn’t get 
rid of it; it turned inward and drove her mad, it 
exploded out of her when she couldn’t control it, and 
at times she was strange and dangerous. But mostly 
she was sweet and scared and harmless. 

“And my father went after the bastards that did it,” 
said Aberforth, “and attacked them. And they locked 
him up in Azkaban for it. He never said why he’d 
done it, because if the Ministry had known what 
Ariana had become, she’d have been locked up in St. 
Mungo’s for good. They’d have seen her as a serious 
threat to the International Statute of Secrecy, 
unbalanced like she was, with magic exploding out of 
her at moments when she couldn’t keep it in any 
longer. 

“We had to keep her safe and quiet. We moved house, 
put it about she was ill, and my mother looked after 
her, and tried to keep her calm and happy. 

“I was her favorite,” he said, and as he said it, a 
grubby schoolboy seemed to look out through 
Aberforth’s wrinkles and tangled beard. “Not Albus, 
he was always up in his bedroom when he was home, 
reading his books and counting his prizes, keeping up 
with his correspondence with ‘the most notable 
magical names of the day,’ ” Aberforth sneered. “He 
didn’t want to be bothered with her. She liked me 
best. I could get her to eat when she wouldn’t do it for 
my mother, I could get her to calm down when she 
was in one of her rages, and when she was quiet, she 
used to help me feed the goats. 

“Then, when she was fourteen ... See, I wasn’t there,” 
said Aberforth. “If I’d been there, I could have calmed 
her down. She had one of her rages, and my mother 
wasn’t as young as she was, and ... it was an 

Page | 638 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




accident. Ariana couldn’t control it. But my mother 
was killed.” 

Harry felt a horrible mixture of pity and repulsion; he 
did not want to hear any more, but Aberforth kept 
talking, and Harry wondered how long it had been 
since he had spoken about this; whether, in fact, he 
had ever spoken about it. 

“So that put paid to Albus’s trip round the world with 
little Doge. The pair of ’em came home for my 
mother’s funeral and then Doge went off on his own, 
and Albus settled down as head of the family. Ha!” 

Aberforth spat into the fire. 

“I’d have looked after her, I told him so, I didn’t care 
about school, I’d have stayed home and done it. He 
told me I had to finish my education and he’d take 
over from my mother. Bit of a comedown for Mr. 
Brilliant, there’s no prizes for looking after your half- 
mad sister, stopping her blowing up the house every 
other day. But he did all right for a few weeks . . . till 
he came.” 

And now a positively dangerous look crept over 
Aberforth’s face. 

“Grindelwald. And at last, my brother had an equal to 
talk to, someone just as bright and talented as he 
was. And looking after Ariana took a backseat then, 
while they were hatching all their plans for a new 
Wizarding order, and looking for Hallows, and 
whatever else it was they were so interested in. Grand 
plans for the benefit of all Wizardkind, and if one 
young girl got neglected, what did that matter, when 
Albus was working for the greater good? 



Page | 639 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But after a few weeks of it, I’d had enough, I had. It 
was nearly time for me to go back to Hogwarts, so I 
told ’em, both of ’em, face-to-face, like I am to you, 
now,” and Aberforth looked down at Harry, and it 
took little imagination to see him as a teenager, wiry 
and angry, confronting his elder brother. “I told him, 
you’d better give it up now. You can’t move her, she’s 
in no fit state, you can’t take her with you, wherever it 
is you’re planning to go, when you’re making your 
clever speeches, trying to whip yourselves up a 
following. He didn’t like that,” said Aberforth, and his 
eyes were briefly occluded by the firelight on the 
lenses of his glasses: They shone white and blind 
again. “Grindelwald didn’t like that at all. He got 
angry. He told me what a stupid little boy I was, 
trying to stand in the way of him and my brilliant 
brother. ... Didn’t I understand, my poor sister 
wouldn’t have to be hidden once they’d changed the 
world, and led the wizards out of hiding, and taught 
the Muggles their place? 

“And there was an argument . . . and I pulled out my 
wand, and he pulled out his, and I had the Cruciatus 
Curse used on me by my brother’s best friend — and 
Albus was trying to stop him, and then all three of us 
were dueling, and the flashing lights and the bangs 
set her off, she couldn’t stand it — ” 

The color was draining from Aberforth ’s face as 
though he had suffered a mortal wound. 

“ — and I think she wanted to help, but she didn’t 
really know what she was doing, and I don’t know 
which of us did it, it could have been any of us — and 
she was dead.” 

His voice broke on the last word and he dropped 
down into the nearest chair. Hermione’s face was wet 
with tears, and Ron was almost as pale as Aberforth. 

Page | 640 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry felt nothing but revulsion: He wished he had 
not heard it, wished he could wash his mind clean of 
it. 

“I’m so ... I’m so sorry,” Hermione whispered. 

“Gone,” croaked Aberforth. “Gone forever.” 

He wiped his nose on his cuff and cleared his throat. 

“ ’Course, Grindelwald scarpered. He had a bit of a 
track record already, back in his own country, and he 
didn’t want Ariana set to his account too. And Albus 
was free, wasn’t he? Free of the burden of his sister, 
free to become the greatest wizard of the — ” 

“He was never free,” said Harry. 

“I beg your pardon?” said Aberforth. 

“Never,” said Harry. “The night that your brother died, 
he drank a potion that drove him out of his mind. He 
started screaming, pleading with someone who wasn’t 
there. ‘Don’t hurt them, please ... hurt me instead.’ ” 

Ron and Hermione were staring at Harry. He had 
never gone into details about what had happened on 
the island on the lake: The events that had taken 
place after he and Dumbledore had returned to 
Hogwarts had eclipsed it so thoroughly. 

“He thought he was back there with you and 
Grindelwald, I know he did,” said Harry, remembering 
Dumbledore whimpering, pleading. “He thought he 
was watching Grindelwald hurting you and Ariana. . . . 
It was torture to him, if you’d seen him then, you 
wouldn’t say he was free.” 



Page | 641 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Aberforth seemed lost in contemplation of his own 
knotted and veined hands. After a long pause he said, 
“How can you be sure, Potter, that my brother wasn’t 
more interested in the greater good than in you? How 
can you be sure you aren’t dispensable, just like my 
little sister?” 

A shard of ice seemed to pierce Harry’s heart. 

“I don’t believe it. Dumbledore loved Harry,” said 
Hermione. 

“Why didn’t he tell him to hide, then?” shot back 
Aberforth. “Why didn’t he say to him, Take care of 
yourself, here’s how to survive’?” 

“Because,” said Harry before Hermione could answer, 
“sometimes you’ve got to think about more than your 
own safety! Sometimes you’ve got to think about the 
greater good! This is war!” 

“You’re seventeen, boy!” 

“I’m of age, and I’m going to keep fighting even if 
you’ve given up!” 

“Who says I’ve given up?” 

“ The Order of the Phoenix is finished,’ ” Harry 
repeated. “ Tou- Know- Who’s won, it’s over, and 
anyone who’s pretending different’s kidding 
themselves.’ ” 

“I don’t say I like it, but it’s the truth!” 

“No, it isn’t,” said Harry. “Your brother knew how to 
finish You-Know-Who and he passed the knowledge 
on to me. I’m going to keep going until I succeed — or 



Page | 642 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




I die. Don’t think I don’t know how this might end. 
I’ve known it for years.” 



He waited for Aberforth to jeer or to argue, but he did 
not. He merely scowled. 

“We need to get into Hogwarts,” said Harry again. “If 
you can’t help us, we’ll wait till daybreak, leave you in 
peace, and try to find a way in ourselves. If you can 
help us — well, now would be a great time to mention 
it.” 

Aberforth remained fixed in his chair, gazing at Harry 
with the eyes that were so extraordinarily like his 
brother’s. At last he cleared his throat, got to his feet, 
walked around the little table, and approached the 
portrait of Ariana. 

“You know what to do,” he said. 

She smiled, turned, and walked away, not as people 
in portraits usually did, out of the sides of their 
frames, but along what seemed to be a long tunnel 
painted behind her. They watched her slight figure 
retreating until finally she was swallowed by the 
darkness. 

“Er — what — ?” began Ron. 

“There’s only one way in now,” said Aberforth. “You 
must know they’ve got all the old secret passageways 
covered at both ends, dementors all around the 
boundary walls, regular patrols inside the school from 
what my sources tell me. The place has never been so 
heavily guarded. How you expect to do anything once 
you get inside it, with Snape in charge and the 
Carrows as his deputies ... well, that’s your lookout, 
isn’t it? You say you’re prepared to die.” 

Page | 643 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But what ... ?” said Hermione, frowning at Ariana’s 
picture. 

A tiny white dot had reappeared at the end of the 
painted tunnel, and now Ariana was walking back 
toward them, growing bigger and bigger as she came. 
But there was somebody else with her now, someone 
taller than she was, who was limping along, looking 
excited. His hair was longer than Harry had ever seen 
it: He appeared to have suffered several gashes to his 
face and his clothes were ripped and torn. Larger and 
larger the two figures grew, until only their heads and 
shoulders filled the portrait. Then the whole thing 
swung forward on the wall like a little door, and the 
entrance to a real tunnel was revealed. And out of it, 
his hair overgrown, his face cut, his robes ripped, 
clambered the real Neville Longbottom, who gave a 
roar of delight, leapt down from the mantelpiece, and 
yelled, “I knew you’d come! I knew it, HarryY’ 



Page | 644 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE LOST DIADEM 

“Neville — what the — how — ?” 

But Neville had spotted Ron and Hermione, and with 
yells of delight was hugging them too. The longer 
Harry looked at Neville, the worse he appeared: One 
of his eyes was swollen yellow and purple, there were 
gouge marks on his face, and his general air of 
unkemptness suggested that he had been living 
rough. Nevertheless, his battered visage shone with 
happiness as he let go of Hermione and said again, “I 
knew you’d come! Kept telling Seamus it was a matter 
of time!” 

“Neville, what’s happened to you?” 

“What? This?” Neville dismissed his injuries with a 
shake of the head. “This is nothing. Seamus is worse. 
You’ll see. Shall we get going then? Oh,” he turned to 
Aberforth, “Ab, there might be a couple more people 
on the way.” 



Page | 645 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“Couple more?” repeated Aberforth ominously. “What 
d’you mean, a couple more, Longbottom? There’s a 
curfew and a Caterwauling Charm on the whole 
village!” 

“I know, that’s why they’ll be Apparating directly into 
the bar,” said Neville. “Just send them down the 
passage when they get here, will you? Thanks a lot.” 

Neville held out his hand to Hermione and helped her 
to climb up onto the mantelpiece and into the tunnel; 
Ron followed, then Neville. Harry addressed 
Aberforth. 

“I don’t know how to thank you. You’ve saved our 
lives twice.” 

“Look after ’em, then,” said Aberforth gruffly. “I might 
not be able to save ’em a third time.” 

Harry clambered up onto the mantelpiece and 
through the hole behind Ariana’s portrait. There were 
smooth stone steps on the other side: It looked as 
though the passageway had been there for years. 
Brass lamps hung from the walls and the earthy floor 
was worn and smooth; as they walked, their shadows 
rippled, fanlike, across the wall. 

“How long’s this been here?” Ron asked as they set 
off. “It isn’t on the Marauder’s Map, is it, Harry? I 
thought there were only seven passages in and out of 
school?” 

“They sealed off all of those before the start of the 
year,” said Neville. “There’s no chance of getting 
through any of them now, not with curses over the 
entrances and Death Eaters and dementors waiting at 
the exits.” He started walking backward, beaming, 
drinking them in. “Never mind that stuff. ... Is it true? 
Page | 646 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Did you break into Gringotts? Did you escape on a 
dragon? It’s everywhere, everyone’s talking about it, 
Terry Boot got beaten up by Carrow for yelling about 
it in the Great Hall at dinner!” 

“Yeah, it’s true,” said Harry. 

Neville laughed gleefully. 

“What did you do with the dragon?” 

“Released it into the wild,” said Ron. “Hermione was 
all for keeping it as a pet — ” 

“Don’t exaggerate, Ron — ” 

“But what have you been doing? People have been 
saying you’ve just been on the run, Harry, but I don’t 
think so. I think you’ve been up to something.” 

“You’re right,” said Harry, “but tell us about 
Hogwarts, Neville, we haven’t heard anything.” 

“It’s been ... well, it’s not really like Hogwarts 
anymore,” said Neville, the smile fading from his face 
as he spoke. “Do you know about the Carrows?” 

“Those two Death Eaters who teach here?” 

“They do more than teach,” said Neville. “They’re in 
charge of all discipline. They like punishment, the 
Carrows.” 

“Like Umbridge?” 

“Nah, they make her look tame. The other teachers 
are all supposed to refer us to the Carrows if we do 
anything wrong. They don’t, though, if they can avoid 
it. You can tell they all hate them as much as we do. 

Page | 647 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Amycus, the bloke, he teaches what used to be 
Defense Against the Dark Arts, except now it’s just 
the Dark Arts. We’re supposed to practice the 
Cruciatus Curse on people who’ve earned detentions 



“What?” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s united voices echoed up 
and down the passage. 

“Yeah,” said Neville. “That’s how I got this one,” he 
pointed at a particularly deep gash in his cheek, “I 
refused to do it. Some people are into it, though; 
Crabbe and Goyle love it. First time they’ve ever been 
top in anything, I expect. 

“Alecto, Amycus’s sister, teaches Muggle Studies, 
which is compulsory for everyone. We’ve all got to 
listen to her explain how Muggles are like animals, 
stupid and dirty, and how they drove wizards into 
hiding by being vicious toward them, and how the 
natural order is being reestablished. I got this one,” 
he indicated another slash to his face, “for asking her 
how much Muggle blood she and her brother have 
got.” 

“Blimey, Neville,” said Ron, “there’s a time and a place 
for getting a smart mouth.” 

“You didn’t hear her,” said Neville. “You wouldn’t have 
stood it either. The thing is, it helps when people 
stand up to them, it gives everyone hope. I used to 
notice that when you did it, Harry.” 

“But they’ve used you as a knife sharpener,” said 
Ron, wincing slightly as they passed a lamp and 
Neville’s injuries were thrown into even greater relief. 



Page | 648 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Neville shrugged. 



“Doesn’t matter. They don’t want to spill too much 
pure blood, so they’ll torture us a bit if we’re mouthy 
but they won’t actually kill us.” 

Harry did not know what was worse, the things that 
Neville was saying or the matter-of-fact tone in which 
he said them. 

“The only people in real danger are the ones whose 
friends and relatives on the outside are giving trouble. 
They get taken hostage. Old Xeno Lovegood was 
getting a bit too outspoken in The Quihhler, so they 
dragged Luna off the train on the way back for 
Christmas.” 

“Neville, she’s all right, we’ve seen her — ” 

“Yeah, I know, she managed to get a message to me.” 

From his pocket he pulled a golden coin, and Harry 
recognized it as one of the fake Galleons that 
Dumbledore’s Army had used to send one another 
messages. 

“These have been great,” said Neville, beaming at 
Hermione. “The Carrows never rumbled how we were 
communicating, it drove them mad. We used to sneak 
out at night and put graffiti on the walls: 

Dumbledore’s Army, Still Recruiting, stuff like that. 
Snape hated it.” 

“You used to?” said Harry, who had noticed the past 
tense. 

“Well, it got more difficult as time went on,” said 
Neville. “We lost Luna at Christmas, and Ginny never 
came back after Easter, and the three of us were sort 

Page | 649 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




of the leaders. The Carrows seemed to know I was 
behind a lot of it, so they started coming down on me 
hard, and then Michael Corner went and got caught 
releasing a first-year they’d chained up, and they 
tortured him pretty badly. That scared people off.” 

“No kidding,” muttered Ron, as the passage began to 
slope upward. 

“Yeah, well, I couldn’t ask people to go through what 
Michael did, so we dropped those kinds of stunts. But 
we were still fighting, doing underground stuff, right 
up until a couple of weeks ago. That’s when they 
decided there was only one way to stop me, I suppose, 
and they went for Gran.” 

“They what?” said Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
together. 

“Yeah,” said Neville, panting a little now, because the 
passage was climbing so steeply, “well, you can see 
their thinking. It had worked really well, kidnapping 
kids to force their relatives to behave, I s’pose it was 
only a matter of time before they did it the other way 
around. Thing was,” he faced them, and Harry was 
astonished to see that he was grinning, “they bit off a 
bit more than they could chew with Gran. Little old 
witch living alone, they probably thought they didn’t 
need to send anyone particularly powerful. Anyway,” 
Neville laughed, “Dawlish is still in St. Mungo’s and 
Gran’s on the run. She sent me a letter,” he clapped a 
hand to the breast pocket of his robes, “telling me she 
was proud of me, that I’m my parents’ son, and to 
keep it up.” 

“Cool,” said Ron. 

“Yeah,” said Neville happily. “Only thing was, once 
they realized they had no hold over me, they decided 

Page | 650 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Hogwarts could do without me after all. I don’t know 
whether they were planning to kill me or send me to 
Azkaban; either way, I knew it was time to disappear.” 

“But,” said Ron, looking thoroughly confused, “aren’t 
— aren’t we heading straight back into Hogwarts?” 

“ ’Course,” said Neville. “You’ll see. We’re here.” 

They turned a corner and there ahead of them was 
the end of the passage. Another short flight of steps 
led to a door just like the one hidden behind Ariana’s 
portrait. Neville pushed it open and climbed through. 
As Harry followed, he heard Neville call out to unseen 
people: 

“Look who it is! Didn’t I tell you?” 

As Harry emerged into the room beyond the passage, 
there were several screams and yells: “HARRY!” “It’s 
Potter, it’s POTTER!” “Ron!” “Hermionel” 

He had a confused impression of colored hangings, of 
lamps and many faces. The next moment, he, Ron, 
and Hermione were engulfed, hugged, pounded on the 
back, their hair ruffled, their hands shaken, by what 
seemed to be more than twenty people: They might 
just have won a Quidditch final. 

“Okay, okay, calm down!” Neville called, and as the 
crowd backed away, Harry was able to take in their 
surroundings. 

He did not recognize the room at all. It was enormous, 
and looked rather like the interior of a particularly 
sumptuous tree house, or perhaps a gigantic ship’s 
cabin. Multicolored hammocks were strung from the 
ceiling and from a balcony that ran around the dark 
wood-paneled and windowless walls, which were 
Page | 651 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




covered in bright tapestry hangings: Harry saw the 
gold Gryffindor lion, emblazoned on scarlet; the black 
badger of Hufflepuff, set against yellow; and the 
bronze eagle of Ravenclaw, on blue. The silver and 
green of Slytherin alone were absent. There were 
bulging bookcases, a few broomsticks propped 
against the walls, and in the corner, a large wooden- 
cased wireless. 

“Where are we?” 

“Room of Requirement, of course!” said Neville. 
