of them, barring access to four or five of the deepest 
vaults in the place. The beast’s scales had turned pale 
and flaky during its long incarceration under the 

Page | 605 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




ground; its eyes were milkily pink; both rear legs bore 
heavy cuffs from which chains led to enormous pegs 
driven deep into the rocky floor. Its great spiked 
wings, folded close to its body, would have filled the 
chamber if it spread them, and when it turned its 
ugly head toward them, it roared with a noise that 
made the rock tremble, opened its mouth, and spat a 
jet of fire that sent them running back up the 
passageway. 

“It is partially blind,” panted Griphook, “but even 
more savage for that. However, we have the means to 
control it. It has learned what to expect when the 
Clankers come. Give them to me.” 

Ron passed the bag to Griphook, and the goblin 
pulled out a number of small metal instruments that 
when shaken made a loud, ringing noise like 
miniature hammers on anvils. Griphook handed them 
out: Bogrod accepted his meekly. 

“You know what to do,” Griphook told Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione. “It will expect pain when it hears the 
noise: It will retreat, and Bogrod must place his palm 
upon the door of the vault.” 

They advanced around the corner again, shaking the 
Clankers, and the noise echoed off the rocky walls, 
grossly magnified, so that the inside of Harry’s skull 
seemed to vibrate with the din. The dragon let out 
another hoarse roar, then retreated. Harry could see 
it trembling, and as they drew nearer he saw the 
scars made by vicious slashes across its face, and 
guessed that it had been taught to fear hot swords 
when it heard the sound of the Clankers. 

“Make him press his hand to the door!” Griphook 
urged Harry, who turned his wand again upon 
Bogrod. The old goblin obeyed, pressing his palm to 

Page | 606 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the wood, and the door of the vault melted away to 
reveal a cavelike opening crammed from floor to 
ceiling with golden coins and goblets, silver armor, 
the skins of strange creatures — some with long 
spines, others with drooping wings — potions in 
jeweled flasks, and a skull still wearing a crown. 

“Search, fast!” said Harry as they all hurried inside 
the vault. 

He had described Hufflepuff’s cup to Ron and 
Hermione, but if it was the other, unknown Horcrux 
that resided in this vault, he did not know what it 
looked like. He barely had time to glance around, 
however, before there was a muffled clunk from 
behind them: The door had reappeared, sealing them 
inside the vault, and they were plunged into total 
darkness. 

“No matter, Bogrod will be able to release us!” said 
Griphook as Ron gave a shout of surprise. “Light your 
wands, can’t you? And hurry, we have very little 
time!” 

“Lumosl” 

Harry shone his lit wand around the vault: Its beam 
fell upon glittering jewels; he saw the fake sword of 
Gryffindor lying on a high shelf amongst a jumble of 
chains. Ron and Hermione had lit their wands too, 
and were now examining the piles of objects 
surrounding them. 

“Harry, could this be — ? Aargh!” 

Hermione screamed in pain, and Harry turned his 
wand on her in time to see a jeweled goblet tumbling 
from her grip. But as it fell, it split, became a shower 
of goblets, so that a second later, with a great clatter, 

Page | 607 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the floor was covered in identical cups rolling in every 
direction, the original impossible to discern amongst 
them. 

“It burned me!” moaned Hermione, sucking her 
blistered fingers. 

“They have added Gemino and Flagrante Curses!” 
said Griphook. “Everything you touch will burn and 
multiply, but the copies are worthless — and if you 
continue to handle the treasure, you will eventually 
be crushed to death by the weight of expanding gold!” 

“Okay, don’t touch anything!” said Harry desperately, 
but even as he said it, Ron accidentally nudged one of 
the fallen goblets with his foot, and twenty more 
exploded into being while Ron hopped on the spot, 
part of his shoe burned away by contact with the hot 
metal. 

“Stand still, don’t move!” said Hermione, clutching at 
Ron. 

“Just look around!” said Harry. “Remember, the cup’s 
small and gold, it’s got a badger engraved on it, two 
handles — otherwise see if you can spot Ravenclaw’s 
symbol anywhere, the eagle — ” 

They directed their wands into every nook and 
crevice, turning cautiously on the spot. It was 
impossible not to brush up against anything; Harry 
sent a great cascade of fake Galleons onto the ground 
where they joined the goblets, and now there was 
scarcely room to place their feet, and the glowing gold 
blazed with heat, so that the vault felt like a furnace. 
Harry’s wandlight passed over shields and goblin- 
made helmets set on shelves rising to the ceiling; 
higher and higher he raised the beam, until suddenly 



Page | 608 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




it found an object that made his heart skip and his 
hand tremble. 



“It’s there, it’s up there\” 

Ron and Hermione pointed their wands at it too, so 
that the little golden cup sparkled in a three-way 
spotlight: the cup that had belonged to Helga 
Hufflepuff, which had passed into the possession of 
Hepzibah Smith, from whom it had been stolen by 
Tom Riddle. 

“And how the hell are we going to get up there 
without touching anything?” asked Ron. 

“Accio Cup\” cried Hermione, who had evidently 
forgotten in her desperation what Griphook had told 
them during their planning sessions. 

“No use, no use!” snarled the goblin. 

“Then what do we do?” said Harry, glaring at the 
goblin. “If you want the sword, Griphook, then you’ll 
have to help us more than — wait! Can I touch stuff 
with the sword? Hermione, give it here!” 

Hermione fumbled inside her robes, drew out the 
beaded bag, rummaged for a few seconds, then 
removed the shining sword. Harry seized it by its 
rubied hilt and touched the tip of the blade to a silver 
flagon nearby, which did not multiply. 

“If I can just poke the sword through a handle — but 
how am I going to get up there?” 

The shelf on which the cup reposed was out of reach 
for any of them, even Ron, who was tallest. The heat 
from the enchanted treasure rose in waves, and sweat 
ran down Harry’s face and back as he struggled to 

Page | 609 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




think of a way up to the cup; and then he heard the 
dragon roar on the other side of the vault door, and 
the sound of clanking growing louder and louder. 

They were truly trapped now: There was no way out 
except through the door, and a horde of goblins 
seemed to be approaching on the other side. Harry 
looked at Ron and Hermione and saw terror in their 
faces. 

“Hermione,” said Harry as the clanking grew louder, 
“I’ve got to get up there, we’ve got to get rid of it — ” 

She raised her wand, pointed it at Harry, and 
whispered, “Levicorpus.” 

Hoisted into the air by his ankle, Harry hit a suit of 
armor and replicas burst out of it like white-hot 
bodies, filling the cramped space. With screams of 
pain Ron, Hermione, and the two goblins were 
knocked aside into other objects, which also began to 
replicate. Half buried in a rising tide of red-hot 
treasure, they struggled and yelled as Harry thrust 
the sword through the handle of Hufflepuff’s cup, 
hooking it onto the blade. 

“Impervius\” screeched Hermione in an attempt to 
protect herself, Ron, and the goblins from the burning 
metal. 

Then the worst scream yet made Harry look down: 

Ron and Hermione were waist-deep in treasure, 
struggling to keep Bogrod from slipping beneath the 
rising tide, but Griphook had sunk out of sight and 
nothing but the tips of a few long fingers were left in 
view. 

Harry seized Griphook’s fingers and pulled. The 
blistered goblin emerged by degrees, howling. 

Page | 610 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Liberacorpus\” yelled Harry, and with a crash he and 
Griphook landed on the surface of the swelling 
treasure, and the sword flew out of Harry’s hand. 

“Get it!” Harry yelled, fighting the pain of the hot 
metal on his skin, as Griphook clambered onto his 
shoulders again, determined to avoid the swelling 
mass of red-hot objects. “Where’s the sword? It had 
the cup on it!” 

The clanking on the other side of the door was 
growing deafening — it was too late — 

“There!” 

It was Griphook who had seen it and Griphook who 
lunged, and in that instant Harry knew that the 
goblin had never expected them to keep their word. 
One hand holding tightly to a fistful of Harry’s hair, to 
make sure he did not fall into the heaving sea of 
burning gold, Griphook seized the hilt of the sword 
and swung it high out of Harry’s reach. 

The tiny golden cup, skewered by the handle on the 
sword’s blade, was flung into the air. The goblin still 
astride him, Harry dived and caught it, and although 
he could feel it scalding his flesh he did not relinquish 
it, even while countless Hufflepuff cups burst from 
his fist, raining down upon him as the entrance of the 
vault opened up again and he found himself sliding 
uncontrollably on an expanding avalanche of fiery 
gold and silver that bore him, Ron, and Hermione into 
the outer chamber. 

Hardly aware of the pain from the burns covering his 
body, and still borne along on the swell of replicating 
treasure, Harry shoved the cup into his pocket and 
reached up to retrieve the sword, but Griphook was 
gone. Sliding from Harry’s shoulders the moment he 
Page | 611 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




could, he had sprinted for cover amongst the 
surrounding goblins, brandishing the sword and 
crying, “Thieves! Thieves! Help! Thieves!” He vanished 
into the midst of the advancing crowd, all of whom 
were holding daggers and who accepted him without 
question. 

Slipping on the hot metal, Harry struggled to his feet 
and knew that the only way out was through. 

“Stupefyl” he bellowed, and Ron and Hermione joined 
in: Jets of red light flew into the crowd of goblins, and 
some toppled over, but others advanced, and Harry 
saw several wizard guards running around the 
corner. 

The tethered dragon let out a roar, and a gush of 
flame flew over the goblins: The wizards fled, doubled- 
up, back the way they had come, and inspiration, or 
madness, came to Harry. Pointing his wand at the 
thick cuffs chaining the beast to the floor, he yelled, 
“Relashiol” 

The cuffs broke open with loud bangs. 

“This way!” Harry yelled, and still shooting Stunning 
Spells at the advancing goblins, he sprinted toward 
the blind dragon. 

“Harry — Harry — what are you doing?” cried 
Hermione. 

“Get up, climb up, come on — ” 

The dragon had not realized that it was free: Harry’s 
foot found the crook of its hind leg and he pulled 
himself up onto its back. The scales were hard as 
steel; it did not even seem to feel him. He stretched 
out an arm; Hermione hoisted herself up; Ron 
Page | 612 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




climbed on behind them, and a second later the 
dragon became aware that it was untethered. 

With a roar it reared: Harry dug in his knees, 
clutching as tightly as he could to the jagged scales 
as the wings opened, knocking the shrieking goblins 
aside like skittles, and it soared into the air. Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione, flat on its back, scraped against 
the ceiling as it dived toward the passage opening, 
while the pursuing goblins hurled daggers that 
glanced off its flanks. 

“Well never get out, it’s too big!” Hermione screamed, 
but the dragon opened its mouth and belched flame 
again, blasting the tunnel, whose floors and ceiling 
cracked and crumbled. By sheer force the dragon 
clawed and fought its way through. Harry’s eyes were 
shut tight against the heat and dust: Deafened by the 
crashing of rock and the dragon’s roars, he could only 
cling to its back, expecting to be shaken off at any 
moment; then he heard Hermione yelling, “Defodiol” 

She was helping the dragon enlarge the passageway, 
carving out the ceiling as it struggled upward toward 
the fresher air, away from the shrieking and clanking 
goblins: Harry and Ron copied her, blasting the 
ceiling apart with more gouging spells. They passed 
the underground lake, and the great crawling, 
snarling beast seemed to sense freedom and space 
ahead of it, and behind them the passage was full of 
the dragon’s thrashing, spiked tail, of great lumps of 
rock, gigantic fractured stalactites, and the clanking 
of the goblins seemed to be growing more muffled, 
while ahead, the dragon’s fire kept their progress 
clear — 

And then at last, by the combined force of their spells 
and the dragon’s brute strength, they had blasted 
their way out of the passage into the marble hallway. 

Page | 613 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Goblins and wizards shrieked and ran for cover, and 
finally the dragon had room to stretch its wings: 
Turning its horned head toward the cool outside air it 
could smell beyond the entrance, it took off, and with 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione still clinging to its back, it 
forced its way through the metal doors, leaving them 
buckled and hanging from their hinges, as it 
staggered into Diagon Alley and launched itself into 
the sky. 



Page | 614 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 





THE FINAL HIDING PLACE 

There was no means of steering; the dragon could not 
see where it was going, and Harry knew that if it 
turned sharply or rolled in midair they would find it 
impossible to cling onto its broad back. Nevertheless, 
as they climbed higher and higher, London unfurling 
below them like a gray-and-green map, Harry’s 
overwhelming feeling was of gratitude for an escape 
that had seemed impossible. Crouching low over the 
beast’s neck, he clung tight to the metallic scales, and 
the cool breeze was soothing on his burned and 
blistered skin, the dragon’s wings beating the air like 
the sails of a windmill. Behind him, whether from 
delight or fear he could not tell, Ron kept swearing at 
the top of his voice, and Hermione seemed to be 
sobbing. 

After five minutes or so, Harry lost some of his 
immediate dread that the dragon was going to throw 
them off, for it seemed intent on nothing but getting 
as far away from its underground prison as possible; 
but the question of how and when they were to 
dismount remained rather frightening. He had no idea 

Page | 615 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



how long dragons could fly without landing, nor how 
this particular dragon, which could barely see, would 
locate a good place to put down. He glanced around 
constantly, imagining that he could feel his scar 
prickling. ... 

How long would it be before Voldemort knew that they 
had broken into the Lestranges’ vault? How soon 
would the goblins of Gringotts notify Bellatrix? How 
quickly would they realize what had been taken? And 
then, when they discovered that the golden cup was 
missing? Voldemort would know, at last, that they 
were hunting Horcruxes. ... 

The dragon seemed to crave cooler and fresher air: It 
climbed steadily until they were flying through wisps 
of chilly cloud, and Harry could no longer make out 
the little colored dots which were cars pouring in and 
out of the capital. On and on they flew, over 
countryside parceled out in patches of green and 
brown, over roads and rivers winding through the 
landscape like strips of matte and glossy ribbon. 

“What do you reckon it’s looking for?” Ron yelled as 
they flew farther and farther north. 

“No idea,” Harry bellowed back. His hands were numb 
with cold but he did not dare attempt to shift his grip. 
He had been wondering for some time what they 
would do if they saw the coast sail beneath them, if 
the dragon headed for open sea; he was cold and 
numb, not to mention desperately hungry and thirsty. 
When, he wondered, had the beast itself last eaten? 
Surely it would need sustenance before long? And 
what if, at that point, it realized it had three highly 
edible humans sitting on its back? 

The sun slipped lower in the sky, which was turning 
indigo; and still the dragon flew, cities and towns 

Page | 616 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




gliding out of sight beneath them, its enormous 
shadow sliding over the earth like a great dark cloud. 
Every part of Harry ached with the effort of holding on 
to the dragon’s back. 

“Is it my imagination,” shouted Ron after a 
considerable stretch of silence, “or are we losing 
height?” 

Harry looked down and saw deep green mountains 
and lakes, coppery in the sunset. The landscape 
seemed to grow larger and more detailed as he 
squinted over the side of the dragon, and he 
wondered whether it had divined the presence of fresh 
water by the flashes of reflected sunlight. 

Lower and lower the dragon flew, in great spiraling 
circles, honing in, it seemed, upon one of the smaller 
lakes. 

“I say we jump when it gets low enough!” Harry called 
back to the others. “Straight into the water before it 
realizes we’re here!” 

They agreed, Hermione a little faintly, and now Harry 
could see the dragon’s wide yellow underbelly rippling 
in the surface of the water. 

“NOW!” 

He slithered over the side of the dragon and 
plummeted feetfirst toward the surface of the lake; 
the drop was greater than he had estimated and he 
hit the water hard, plunging like a stone into a 
freezing, green, reed-filled world. He kicked toward 
the surface and emerged, panting, to see enormous 
ripples emanating in circles from the places where 
Ron and Hermione had fallen. The dragon did not 
seem to have noticed anything: It was already fifty 
Page | 617 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




feet away, swooping low over the lake to scoop up 
water in its scarred snout. As Ron and Hermione 
emerged, spluttering and gasping, from the depths of 
the lake, the dragon flew on, its wings beating hard, 
and landed at last on a distant bank. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione struck out for the opposite 
shore. The lake did not seem to be deep: Soon it was 
more a question of fighting their way through reeds 
and mud than swimming, and at last they flopped, 
sodden, panting, and exhausted, onto slippery grass. 

Hermione collapsed, coughing and shuddering. 
Though Harry could have happily lain down and 
slept, he staggered to his feet, drew out his wand, and 
started casting the usual protective spells around 
them. 

When he had finished, he joined the others. It was the 
first time that he had seen them properly since 
escaping from the vault. Both had angry red burns all 
over their faces and arms, and their clothing was 
singed away in places. They were wincing as they 
dabbed essence of dittany onto their many injuries. 
Hermione handed Harry the bottle, then pulled out 
three bottles of pumpkin juice she had brought from 
Shell Cottage and clean, dry robes for all of them. 

They changed and then gulped down the juice. 

“Well, on the upside,” said Ron finally, who was 
sitting watching the skin on his hands regrow, “we got 
the Horcrux. On the downside — ” 

“ — no sword,” said Harry through gritted teeth, as he 
dripped dittany through the singed hole in his jeans 
onto the angry burn beneath. 

“No sword,” repeated Ron. “That double-crossing little 
scab ...” 

Page | 618 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry pulled the Horcrux from the pocket of the wet 
jacket he had just taken off and set it down on the 
grass in front of them. Glinting in the sun, it drew 
their eyes as they swigged their bottles of juice. 

“At least we can’t wear it this time, that’d look a bit 
weird hanging round our necks,” said Ron, wiping his 
mouth on the back of his hand. 

Hermione looked across the lake to the far bank, 
where the dragon was still drinking. 

“What’ll happen to it, do you think?” she asked. “Will 
it be all right?” 

“You sound like Hagrid,” said Ron. “It’s a dragon, 
Hermione, it can look after itself. It’s us we need to 
worry about.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“Well, I don’t know how to break this to you,” said 
Ron, “but I think they might have noticed we broke 
into Gringotts.” 

All three of them started to laugh, and once started, it 
was difficult to stop. Harry’s ribs ached, he felt 
lightheaded with hunger, but he lay back on the grass 
beneath the reddening sky and laughed until his 
throat was raw. 

“What are we going to do, though?” said Hermione 
finally, hiccuping herself back to seriousness. “He’ll 
know, won’t he? You- Know- Who will know we know 
about his Horcruxes!” 

“Maybe they’ll be too scared to tell him?” said Ron 
hopefully. “Maybe they’ll cover up — ” 



Page | 619 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The sky, the smell of lake water, the sound of Ron’s 
voice were extinguished: Pain cleaved Harry’s head 
like a sword stroke. He was standing in a dimly lit 
room, and a semicircle of wizards faced him, and on 
the floor at his feet knelt a small, quaking figure. 

“What did you say to me?” His voice was high and 
cold, but fury and fear burned inside him. The one 
thing he had dreaded — but it could not be true, he 
could not see how ... 

The goblin was trembling, unable to meet the red eyes 
high above his. 

“Say it again!” murmured Voldemort. “ Say it again).” 

“M-my Lord,” stammered the goblin, its black eyes 
wide with terror, “m-my Lord ... we t-tried t-to st-stop 
them. ... Im-impostors, my Lord ... broke — broke 
into the — into the Lestranges’ v-vault. ...” 

“Impostors? What impostors? I thought Gringotts had 
ways of revealing impostors? Who were they?” 

“It was ... it was . . . the P-Potter b-boy and t-two 
accomplices. ...” 

“And they took?” he said, his voice rising, a terrible 
fear gripping him. “Tell me! What did they take?” 

“A ... a s-small golden c-cup, m-my Lord ...” 

The scream of rage, of denial left him as if it were a 
stranger’s: He was crazed, frenzied, it could not be 
true, it was impossible, nobody had ever known: How 
was it possible that the boy could have discovered his 
secret? 



Page | 620 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The Elder Wand slashed through the air and green 
light erupted through the room; the kneeling goblin 
rolled over, dead; the watching wizards scattered 
before him, terrified: Bellatrix and Lucius Malfoy 
threw others behind them in their race for the door, 
and again and again his wand fell, and those who 
were left were slain, all of them, for bringing him this 
news, for hearing about the golden cup — 

Alone amongst the dead he stormed up and down, 
and they passed before him in vision: his treasures, 
his safeguards, his anchors to immortality — the 
diary was destroyed and the cup was stolen: What if, 
what if, the boy knew about the others? Could he 
know, had he already acted, had he traced more of 
them? Was Dumbledore at the root of this? 
Dumbledore, who had always suspected him; 
Dumbledore, dead on his orders; Dumbledore, whose 
wand was his now, yet who reached out from the 
ignominy of death through the boy, the boy — 

But surely if the boy had destroyed any of his 
Horcruxes, he, Lord Voldemort, would have known, 
would have felt it? He, the greatest wizard of them all; 
he, the most powerful; he, the killer of Dumbledore 
and of how many other worthless, nameless men: 
How could Lord Voldemort not have known, if he, 
himself, most important and precious, had been 
attacked, mutilated? 

True, he had not felt it when the diary had been 
destroyed, but he had thought that was because he 
had no body to feel, being less than ghost. ... No, 
surely, the rest were safe. ... The other Horcruxes 
must be intact. ... 

But he must know, he must be sure. ... He paced the 
room, kicking aside the goblin’s corpse as he passed, 



Page | 621 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




and the pictures blurred and burned in his boiling 
brain: the lake, the shack, and Hogwarts — 

A modicum of calm cooled his rage now: How could 
the boy know that he had hidden the ring in the 
Gaunt shack? No one had ever known him to be 
related to the Gaunts, he had hidden the connection, 
the killings had never been traced to him: The ring, 
surely, was safe. 

And how could the boy, or anybody else, know about 
the cave or penetrate its protection? The idea of the 
locket being stolen was absurd. ... 

As for the school: He alone knew where in Hogwarts 
he had stowed the Horcrux, because he alone had 
plumbed the deepest secrets of that place. ... 

And there was still Nagini, who must remain close 
now, no longer sent to do his bidding, under his 
protection. ... 

But to be sure, to be utterly sure, he must return to 
each of his hiding places, he must redouble protection 
around each of his Horcruxes. ... A job, like the quest 
for the Elder Wand, that he must undertake alone ... 

Which should he visit first, which was in most 
danger? An old unease flickered inside him. 
Dumbledore had known his middle name. ... 
Dumbledore might have made the connection with 
the Gaunts. ... Their abandoned home was, perhaps, 
the least secure of his hiding places, it was there that 
he would go first. ... 

The lake, surely impossible ... though was there a 
slight possibility that Dumbledore might have known 
some of his past misdeeds, through the orphanage. 



Page | 622 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




And Hogwarts . . . but he knew that his Horcrux there 
was safe; it would be impossible for Potter to enter 
Hogsmeade without detection, let alone the school. 
Nevertheless, it would be prudent to alert Snape to 
the fact that the boy might try to reenter the castle. ... 
To tell Snape why the boy might return would be 
foolish, of course; it had been a grave mistake to trust 
Bellatrix and Malfoy: Didn’t their stupidity and 
carelessness prove how unwise it was ever to trust? 

He would visit the Gaunt shack first, then, and take 
Nagini with him: He would not be parted from the 
snake anymore . . . and he strode from the room, 
through the hall, and out into the dark garden where 
the fountain played; he called the snake in 
Parseltongue and it slithered out to join him like a 
long shadow. ... 

Harry’s eyes flew open as he wrenched himself back 
to the present: He was lying on the bank of the lake in 
the setting sun, and Ron and Hermione were looking 
down at him. Judging by their worried looks, and by 
the continued pounding of his scar, his sudden 
excursion into Voldemort’s mind had not passed 
unnoticed. He struggled up, shivering, vaguely 
surprised that he was still wet to his skin, and saw 
the cup lying innocently in the grass before him, and 
the lake, deep blue shot with gold in the failing sun. 

“He knows.” His own voice sounded strange and low 
after Voldemort’s high screams. “He knows, and he’s 
going to check where the others are, and the last 
one,” he was already on his feet, “is at Hogwarts. I 
knew it. I knew it.” 

“What?” 

Ron was gaping at him; Hermione sat up, looking 
worried. 

Page | 623 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But what did you see? How do you know?” 



“I saw him find out about the cup, I — I was in his 
head, he’s” — Harry remembered the killings — “he’s 
seriously angry, and scared too, he can’t understand 
how we knew, and now he’s going to check the others 
are safe, the ring first. He thinks the Hogwarts one is 
safest, because Snape’s there, because it’ll be so hard 
not to be seen getting in, I think he’ll check that one 
last, but he could still be there within hours — ” 

“Did you see where in Hogwarts it is?” asked Ron, 
now scrambling to his feet too. 

“No, he was concentrating on warning Snape, he 
didn’t think about exactly where it is — ” 

“Wait, wait\” cried Hermione as Ron caught up the 
Horcrux and Harry pulled out the Invisibility Cloak 
again. “We can’t just go, we haven’t got a plan, we 
need to — ” 

“We need to get going,” said Harry firmly. He had 
been hoping to sleep, looking forward to getting into 
the new tent, but that was impossible now. “Can you 
imagine what he’s going to do once he realizes the 
ring and the locket are gone? What if he moves the 
Hogwarts Horcrux, decides it isn’t safe enough?” 

“But how are we going to get in?” 

“Well go to Hogsmeade,” said Harry, “and try to work 
something out once we see what the protection 
around the school’s like. Get under the Cloak, 
Hermione, I want to stick together this time.” 

“But we don’t really fit — ” 

“It’ll be dark, no one’s going to notice our feet.” 

Page | 624 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The flapping of enormous wings echoed across the 
black water: The dragon had drunk its fill and risen 
into the air. They paused in their preparations to 
watch it climb higher and higher, now black against 
the rapidly darkening sky, until it vanished over a 
nearby mountain. Then Hermione walked forward 
and took her place between the other two. Harry 
pulled the Cloak down as far as it would go, and 
together they turned on the spot into the crushing 
darkness. 



Page | 625 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE MISSING MIRROR 

Harry’s feet touched road. He saw the achingly 
familiar Hogsmeade High Street: dark shop fronts, 
and the outline of black mountains beyond the 
village, and the curve in the road ahead that led off 
toward Hogwarts, and light spilling from the windows 
of the Three Broomsticks, and with a lurch of the 
heart he remembered, with piercing accuracy, how he 
had landed here nearly a year before, supporting a 
desperately weak Dumbledore; all this in a second, 
upon landing — and then, even as he relaxed his grip 
upon Ron’s and Hermione’s arms, it happened. 

The air was rent by a scream that sounded like 
Voldemort’s when he had realized the cup had been 
stolen: It tore at every nerve in Harry’s body, and he 
knew immediately that their appearance had caused 
it. Even as he looked at the other two beneath the 
Cloak, the door of the Three Broomsticks burst open 
and a dozen cloaked and hooded Death Eaters 
dashed into the street, their wands aloft. 



Page | 626 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Harry seized Ron’s wrist as he raised his wand; there 
were too many of them to Stun: Even attempting it 
would give away their position. One of the Death 
Eaters waved his wand and the scream stopped, still 
echoing around the distant mountains. 

“Accio Cloak).” roared one of the Death Eaters. 

Harry seized its folds, but it made no attempt to 
escape: The Summoning Charm had not worked on it. 

“Not under your wrapper, then, Potter?” yelled the 
Death Eater who had tried the charm, and then to his 
fellows, “Spread out. He’s here.” 

Six of the Death Eaters ran toward them: Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione backed as quickly as possible down the 
nearest side street, and the Death Eaters missed 
them by inches. They waited in the darkness, 
listening to the footsteps running up and down, 
beams of light flying along the street from the Death 
Eaters’ searching wands. 

“Let’s just leave!” Hermione whispered. “Disapparate 
now!” 

“Great idea,” said Ron, but before Harry could reply a 
Death Eater shouted, 

“We know you’re here, Potter, and there’s no getting 
away! We’ll find you!” 

“They were ready for us,” whispered Harry. “They set 
up that spell to tell them we’d come. I reckon they’ve 
done something to keep us here, trap us — ” 

“What about dementors?” called another Death Eater. 
“Let ’em have free rein, they’d find him quick enough!” 



Page | 627 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“The Dark Lord wants Potter dead by no hand but his 



“ — an’ dementors won’t kill him! The Dark Lord 
wants Potter’s life, not his soul. He’ll be easier to kill if 
he’s been Kissed first!” 

There were noises of agreement. Dread filled Harry: 

To repel dementors they would have to produce 
Patronuses, which would give them away 
immediately. 

“We’re going to have to try to Disapparate, Harry!” 
Hermione whispered. 

Even as she said it, he felt the unnatural cold begin to 
steal over the street. Light was sucked from the 
environment right up to the stars, which vanished. In 
the pitch-blackness, he felt Hermione take hold of his 
arm and together, they turned on the spot. 

The air through which they needed to move seemed to 
have become solid: They could not Disapparate; the 
Death Eaters had cast their charms well. The cold 
was biting deeper and deeper into Harry’s flesh. He, 
Ron, and Hermione retreated down the side street, 
groping their way along the wall, trying not to make a 
sound. Then, around the corner, gliding noiselessly, 
came dementors, ten or more of them, visible because 
they were of a denser darkness than their 
surroundings, with their black cloaks and their 
scabbed and rotting hands. Could they sense fear in 
the vicinity? Harry was sure of it: They seemed to be 
coming more quickly now, taking those dragging, 
rattling breaths he detested, tasting despair on the 
air, closing in — 

He raised his wand: He could not, would not, suffer 
the Dementor’s Kiss, whatever happened afterward. It 

Page | 628 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




was of Ron and Hermione that he thought as he 
whispered, “Expecto Patronum).” 

The silver stag burst from his wand and charged: The 
dementors scattered and there was a triumphant yell 
from somewhere out of sight. 

“It’s him, down there, down there, I saw his Patronus, 
it was a stag! 

The dementors had retreated, the stars were popping 
out again, and the footsteps of the Death Eaters were 
becoming louder; but before Harry in his panic could 
decide what to do, there was a grinding of bolts 
nearby, a door opened on the left-hand side of the 
narrow street, and a rough voice said, “Potter, in here, 
quick!” 

He obeyed without hesitation: The three of them 
hurtled through the open doorway. 

“Upstairs, keep the Cloak on, keep quiet!” muttered a 
tall figure, passing them on his way into the street 
and slamming the door behind him. 

Harry had had no idea where they were, but now he 
saw, by the stuttering light of a single candle, the 
grubby, sawdust- strewn bar of the Hog’s Head Inn. 
They ran behind the counter and through a second 
doorway, which led to a rickety wooden staircase that 
