your conscience, Hermione ...” 

“Well, you’d deserve it,” she snapped. “You don’t even 
try to listen to him, do you?” 

“We do try,” said Ron. “We just haven’t got your 
brains or your memory or your concentration — 
you’re just cleverer than we are — is it nice to rub it 
in?” 



“Oh, don’t give me that rubbish,” said Hermione, but 
she looked slightly mollified as she led the way out 
into the damp courtyard. 

A fine misty drizzle was falling, so that the people 
standing in huddles around the yard looked blurred 
at the edges. Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose a 
secluded corner under a heavily dripping balcony, 
turning up the collars of their robes against the chilly 
September air and talking about what Snape was 
likely to set them in the first lesson of the year. They 
had got as far as agreeing that it was likely to be 
something extremely difficult, just to catch them off 
guard after a two-month holiday, when someone 
walked around the corner toward them. 

Page | 292Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Hello, Harry!” 



It was Cho Chang and what was more, she was on 
her own again. This was most unusual: Cho was 
almost always surrounded by a gang of giggling girls; 
Harry remembered the agony of trying to get her by 
herself to ask her to the Yule Ball. 

“Hi,” said Harry, feeling his face grow hot. At least 
you’re not covered in Stinksap this time, he told 
himself. Cho seemed to be thinking along the same 
lines. 

“You got that stuff off, then?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, trying to grin as though the 
memory of their last meeting was funny as opposed to 
mortifying. “So did you ... er ... have a good summer?” 

The moment he had said this he wished he hadn’t: 
Cedric had been Cho’s boyfriend and the memory of 
his death must have affected her holiday almost as 
badly as it had affected Harry’s... Something seemed 
to tauten in her face, but she said, “Oh, it was all 
right, you know...” 

“Is that a Tornados badge?” Ron demanded suddenly, 
pointing at the front of Cho’s robes, to which a sky- 
blue badge emblazoned with a double gold T was 
pinned. “You don’t support them, do you?” 

“Yeah, I do,” said Cho. 

“Have you always supported them, or just since they 
started winning the league?” said Ron, in what Harry 
considered an unnecessarily accusatory tone of voice. 

“I’ve supported them since I was six,” said Cho coolly. 
“Anyway ... see you, Harry.” 

Page | 293Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She walked away. Hermione waited until Cho was 
halfway across the courtyard before rounding on Ron. 



“You are so tactless!” 

“What? I only asked her if — ” 

“Couldn’t you tell she wanted to talk to Harry on her 
own?” 

“So? She could’ve done, I wasn’t stopping — ” 

“What on earth were you attacking her about her 
Quidditch team for?” 

“Attacking? I wasn’t attacking her, I was only — ” 

“Who cares if she supports the Tornados?” 

“Oh, come on, half the people you see wearing those 
badges only bought them last season — ” 

“But what does it matter?” 

“It means they’re not real fans, they’re just jumping 
on the bandwagon — ” 

“That’s the bell,” said Harry listlessly, because Ron 
and Hermione were bickering too loudly to hear it. 
They did not stop arguing all the way down to Snape’s 
dungeon, which gave Harry plenty of time to reflect 
that between Neville and Ron he would be lucky ever 
to have two minutes’ conversation with Cho that he 
could look back on without wanting to leave the 
country. 

And yet, he thought, as they joined the queue lining 
up outside Snape’s classroom door, she had chosen 
to come and talk to him, hadn’t she? She had been 

Page | 294Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Cedric’s girlfriend; she could easily have hated Harry 
for coming out of the Triwizard maze alive when 
Cedric had died, yet she was talking to him in a 
perfectly friendly way, not as though she thought him 
mad, or a liar, or in some horrible way responsible for 
Cedric’s death... Yes, she had definitely chosen to 
come and talk to him, and that made the second time 
in two days . . . and at this thought, Harry’s spirits 
rose. Even the ominous sound of Snape’s dungeon 
door creaking open did not puncture the small, 
hopeful bubble that seemed to have swelled in his 
chest. He filed into the classroom behind Ron and 
Hermione and followed them to their usual table at 
the back, ignoring the huffy, irritable noises now 
issuing from both of them. 

“Settle down,” said Snape coldly, shutting the door 
behind him. 

There was no real need for the call to order; the 
moment the class had heard the door close, quiet had 
fallen and all fidgeting stopped. Snape’s mere 
presence was usually enough to ensure a class’s 
silence. 

“Before we begin today’s lesson,” said Snape, 
sweeping over to his desk and staring around at them 
all, “I think it appropriate to remind you that next 
June you will be sitting an important examination, 
during which you will prove how much you have 
learned about the composition and use of magical 
potions. Moronic though some of this class 
undoubtedly are, I expect you to scrape an 
‘Acceptable’ in your O.W.L., or suffer my ... 
displeasure.” 

His gaze lingered this time upon Neville, who gulped. 



Page | 295Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“After this year, of course, many of you will cease 
studying with me,” Snape went on. “I take only the 
very best into my N.E.W.T. Potions class, which 
means that some of us will certainly be saying good- 
bye.” 

His eyes rested on Harry and his lip curled. Harry 
glared back, feeling a grim pleasure at the idea that 
he would be able to give up Potions after fifth year. 

“But we have another year to go before that happy 
moment of farewell,” said Snape softly, “so whether 
you are intending to attempt N.E.W.T. or not, I advise 
all of you to concentrate your efforts upon 
maintaining the high-pass level I have come to expect 
from my O.W.L. students. 

“Today we will be mixing a potion that often comes up 
at Ordinary Wizarding Level: the Draught of Peace, a 
potion to calm anxiety and soothe agitation. Be 
warned: If you are too heavy-handed with the 
ingredients you will put the drinker into a heavy and 
sometimes irreversible sleep, so you will need to pay 
close attention to what you are doing.” On Harry’s 
left, Hermione sat up a little straighter, her 
expression one of the utmost attentiveness. “The 
ingredients and method” — Snape flicked his wand — 
“are on the blackboard” — (they appeared there) — 
“you will find everything you need” — he flicked his 
wand again — “in the store cupboard” — (the door of 
the said cupboard sprang open) — “you have an hour 
and a half... Start.” 

Just as Harry, Ron, and Hermione had predicted, 
Snape could hardly have set them a more difficult, 
fiddly potion. The ingredients had to be added to the 
cauldron in precisely the right order and quantities; 
the mixture had to be stirred exactly the right number 
of times, firstly in clockwise, then in counterclockwise 
Page | 296Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




directions; the heat of the flames on which it was 
simmering had to be lowered to exactly the right level 
for a specific number of minutes before the final 
ingredient was added. 

“A light silver vapor should now be rising from your 
potion,” called Snape, with ten minutes left to go. 

Harry, who was sweating profusely, looked 
desperately around the dungeon. His own cauldron 
was issuing copious amounts of dark gray steam; 
Ron’s was spitting green sparks. Seamus was 
feverishly prodding the flames at the base of his 
cauldron with the tip of his wand, as they had gone 
out. The surface of Hermione’s potion, however, was a 
shimmering mist of silver vapor, and as Snape swept 
by he looked down his hooked nose at it without 
comment, which meant that he could find nothing to 
criticize. At Harry’s cauldron, however, Snape 
stopped, looking down at Harry with a horrible smirk 
on his face. 

“Potter, what is this supposed to be?” 

The Slytherins at the front of the class all looked up 
eagerly; they loved hearing Snape taunt Harry. 

“The Draught of Peace,” said Harry tensely. 

“Tell me, Potter,” said Snape softly, “can you read?” 

Draco Malfoy laughed. 

“Yes, I can,” said Harry, his fingers clenched tightly 
around his wand. 

“Read the third line of the instructions for me, Potter.” 



Page | 297Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry squinted at the blackboard; it was not easy to 
make out the instructions through the haze of 
multicolored steam now filling the dungeon. 

“ ‘Add powdered moonstone, stir three times 
counterclockwise, allow to simmer for seven minutes, 
then add two drops of syrup of hellebore.’ ” 

His heart sank. He had not added syrup of hellebore, 
but had proceeded straight to the fourth line of the 
instructions after allowing his potion to simmer for 
seven minutes. 

“Did you do everything on the third line, Potter?” 

“No,” said Harry very quietly. 

“I beg your pardon?” 

“No,” said Harry, more loudly. “I forgot the 
hellebore...” 

“I know you did, Potter, which means that this mess 
is utterly worthless. Evanesco.” 

The contents of Harry’s potion vanished; he was left 
standing foolishly beside an empty cauldron. 

“Those of you who have managed to read the 
instructions, fill one flagon with a sample of your 
potion, label it clearly with your name, and bring it up 
to my desk for testing,” said Snape. “Homework: 
twelve inches of parchment on the properties of 
moonstone and its uses in potion-making, to be 
handed in on Thursday.” 

While everyone around him filled their flagons, Harry 
cleared away his things, seething. His potion had 
been no worse than Ron’s, which was now giving off a 

Page | 298Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




foul odor of bad eggs, or Neville’s, which had achieved 
the consistency of just-mixed cement and which 
Neville was now having to gouge out of his cauldron, 
yet it was he, Harry, who would be receiving zero 
marks for the day’s work. He stuffed his wand back 
into his bag and slumped down onto his seat, 
watching everyone else march up to Snape’s desk 
with filled and corked flagons. When at long last the 
bell rang, Harry was first out of the dungeon and had 
already started his lunch by the time Ron and 
Hermione joined him in the Great Hall. The ceiling 
had turned an even murkier gray during the morning. 
Rain was lashing the high windows. 

“That was really unfair,” said Hermione consolingly, 
sitting down next to Harry and helping herself to 
shepherd’s pie. “Your potion wasn’t nearly as bad as 
Goyle’s, when he put it in his flagon the whole thing 
shattered and set his robes on fire.” 

“Yeah, well,” said Harry, glowering at his plate, “since 
when has Snape ever been fair to me?” 

Neither of the others answered; all three of them 
knew that Snape and Harry’s mutual enmity had 
been absolute from the moment Harry had set foot in 
Hogwarts. 

“I did think he might be a bit better this year,” said 
Hermione in a disappointed voice. “I mean ... you 
know ...” She looked carefully around; there were half 
a dozen empty seats on either side of them and 
nobody was passing the table. "... Now he’s in the 
Order and everything.” 

“Poisonous toadstools don’t change their spots,” said 
Ron sagely. “Anyway, I’ve always thought Dumbledore 
was cracked trusting Snape, where’s the evidence he 
ever really stopped working for You-Know-Who?” 

Page | 299Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I think Dumbledore’s probably got plenty of evidence, 
even if he doesn’t share it with you, Ron,” snapped 
Hermione. 

“Oh, shut up, the pair of you,” said Harry heavily, as 
Ron opened his mouth to argue back. Hermione and 
Ron both froze, looking angry and offended. “Can’t 
you give it a rest?” he said. “You’re always having a go 
at each other, it’s driving me mad.” And abandoning 
his shepherd’s pie, he swung his schoolbag back over 
his shoulder and left them sitting there. 

He walked up the marble staircase two steps at a 
time, past the many students hurrying toward lunch. 
The anger that had just flared so unexpectedly still 
blazed inside him, and the vision of Ron and 
Hermione ’s shocked faces afforded him a sense of 
deep satisfaction. Serve them right, he thought. Why 
can’t they give it a rest? ... Bickering all the time ... It’s 
enough to drive anyone up the wall. . . 

He passed the large picture of Sir Cadogan the knight 
on a landing; Sir Cadogan drew his sword and 
brandished it fiercely at Harry, who ignored him. 

“Come back, you scurvy dog, stand fast and fight!” 
yelled Sir Cadogan in a muffled voice from behind his 
visor, but Harry merely walked on, and when Sir 
Cadogan attempted to follow him by running into a 
neighboring picture, he was rebuffed by its 
inhabitant, a large and angry-looking wolfhound. 

Harry spent the rest of the lunch hour sitting alone 
underneath the trapdoor at the top of North Tower, 
and consequently he was the first to ascend the silver 
ladder that led to Sibyll Trelawney’s classroom when 
the bell rang. 



Page | 300Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Divination was Harry’s least favorite class after 
Potions, which was due mainly to Professor 
Trelawney’s habit of predicting his premature death 
every few lessons. A thin woman, heavily draped in 
shawls and glittering with strings of beads, she 
always reminded Harry of some kind of insect, with 
her glasses hugely magnifying her eyes. She was busy 
putting copies of battered, leather-bound books on 
each of the spindly little tables with which her room 
was littered when Harry entered the room, but so dim 
was the light cast by the lamps covered by scarves 
and the low-burning, sickly-scented fire that she 
appeared not to notice him as he took a seat in the 
shadows. The rest of the class arrived over the next 
five minutes. Ron emerged from the trapdoor, looked 
around carefully, spotted Harry and made directly for 
him, or as directly as he could while having to wend 
his way between tables, chairs, and overstuffed poufs. 

“Hermione and me have stopped arguing,” he said, 
sitting down beside Harry. 

“Good,” grunted Harry. 

“But Hermione says she thinks it would be nice if you 
stopped taking out your temper on us,” said Ron. 

“I’m not — ” 

“I’m just passing on the message,” said Ron, talking 
over him. “But I reckon she’s right. It’s not our fault 
how Seamus and Snape treat you.” 

“I never said it — ” 

“Good day,” said Professor Trelawney in her usual 
misty, dreamy voice, and Harry broke off, feeling both 
annoyed and slightly ashamed of himself again. “And 
welcome back to Divination. I have, of course, been 

Page | 301Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




following your fortunes most carefully over the 
holidays, and am delighted to see that you have all 
returned to Hogwarts safely — as, of course, I knew 
you would. 

“You will find on the tables before you copies of The 
Dream Oracle, by Inigo Imago. Dream interpretation is 
a most important means of divining the future and 
one that may very probably be tested in your O.W.L. 
Not, of course, that I believe examination passes or 
failures are of the remotest importance when it comes 
to the sacred art of divination. If you have the Seeing 
Eye, certificates and grades matter very little. 

However, the headmaster likes you to sit the 
examination, so ...” 

Her voice trailed away delicately, leaving them all in 
no doubt that Professor Trelawney considered her 
subject above such sordid matters as examinations. 

“Turn, please, to the introduction and read what 
Imago has to say on the matter of dream 
interpretation. Then divide into pairs. Use The Dream 
Oracle to interpret each other’s most recent dreams. 
Carry on.” 

The one good thing to be said for this lesson was that 
it was not a double period. By the time they had all 
finished reading the introduction of the book, they 
had barely ten minutes left for dream interpretation. 
At the table next to Harry and Ron, Dean had paired 
up with Neville, who immediately embarked on a long- 
winded explanation of a nightmare involving a pair of 
giant scissors wearing his grandmother’s best hat; 
Harry and Ron merely looked at each other glumly. 

“I never remember my dreams,” said Ron. “You say 
one.” 



Page | 302Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You must remember one of them,” said Harry 
impatiently. 

He was not going to share his dreams with anyone. 

He knew perfectly well what his regular nightmare 
about a graveyard meant, he did not need Ron or 
Professor Trelawney or the stupid Dream Oracle to tell 
him that... 

“Well, I had one that I was playing Quidditch the 
other night,” said Ron, screwing up his face in an 
effort to remember. “What d’you reckon that means?” 

“Probably that you’re going to be eaten by a giant 
marshmallow or something,” said Harry, turning the 
pages of The Dream Oracle without interest. 

It was very dull work looking up bits of dreams in the 
Oracle and Harry was not cheered up when Professor 
Trelawney set them the task of keeping a dream diary 
for a month as homework. When the bell went, he 
and Ron led the way back down the ladder, Ron 
grumbling loudly. 

“D’you realize how much homework we’ve got 
already? Binns set us a foot-and-a-half-long essay on 
giant wars, Snape wants a foot on the use of 
moonstones, and now we’ve got a month’s dream 
diary from Trelawney! Fred and George weren’t wrong 
about O.W.L. year, were they? That Umbridge woman 
had better not give us any...” 

When they entered the Defense Against the Dark Arts 
classroom they found Professor Umbridge already 
seated at the teacher’s desk, wearing the fluffy pink 
cardigan of the night before and the black velvet bow 
on top of her head. Harry was again reminded forcibly 
of a large fly perched unwisely on top of an even 
larger toad. 

Page | 303Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The class was quiet as it entered the room; Professor 
Umbridge was, as yet, an unknown quantity and 
nobody knew yet how strict a disciplinarian she was 
likely to be. 

“Well, good afternoon!” she said when finally the 
whole class had sat down. 

A few people mumbled “Good afternoon,” in reply. 

“Tut, tut,” said Professor Umbridge. “That won’t do, 
now, will it? I should like you, please, to reply ‘Good 
afternoon, Professor Umbridge.’ One more time, 
please. Good afternoon, class!” 

“Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,” they chanted 
back at her. 

“There, now,” said Professor Umbridge sweetly. “That 
wasn’t too difficult, was it? Wands away and quills 
out, please.” 

Many of the class exchanged gloomy looks; the order 
“wands away” had never yet been followed by a lesson 
they had found interesting. Harry shoved his wand 
back inside his bag and pulled out quill, ink, and 
parchment. Professor Umbridge opened her handbag, 
extracted her own wand, which was an unusually 
short one, and tapped the blackboard sharply with it; 
words appeared on the board at once: 

Defense Against the Dark Arts 

A Return to Basic Principles. 

“Well now, your teaching in this subject has been 
rather disrupted and fragmented, hasn’t it?” stated 
Professor Umbridge, turning to face the class with her 
hands clasped neatly in front of her. “The constant 

Page | 304Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




changing of teachers, many of whom do not seem to 
have followed any Ministry-approved curriculum, has 
unfortunately resulted in your being far below the 
standard we would expect to see in your O.W.L. year. 

“You will be pleased to know, however, that these 
problems are now to be rectified. We will be following 
a carefully structured, theory-centered, Ministry- 
approved course of defensive magic this year. Copy 
down the following, please.” 

She rapped the blackboard again; the first message 
vanished and was replaced by: 

Course aims: 

1. Understanding the principles underlying 
defensive magic. 

2. Learning to recognize situations in which 
defensive magic can legally be used. 

3. Placing the use of defensive magic in a context 
for practical use. 

For a couple of minutes the room was full of the 
sound of scratching quills on parchment. When 
everyone had copied down Professor Umbridge’s three 
course aims she said, “Has everybody got a copy of 
Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?” 

There was a dull murmur of assent throughout the 
class. 

“I think well try that again,” said Professor Umbridge. 
“When I ask you a question, I should like you to reply 
‘Yes, Professor Umbridge,’ or ‘No, Professor 
Umbridge.’ So, has everyone got a copy of Defensive 
Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?” 

Page | 305Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, Professor Umbridge,” rang through the room. 



“Good,” said Professor Umbridge. “I should like you to 
turn to page five and read chapter one, ‘Basics for 
Beginners.’ There will be no need to talk.” 

Professor Umbridge left the blackboard and settled 
herself in the chair behind the teacher’s desk, 
observing them all with those pouchy toad’s eyes. 
Harry turned to page five of his copy of Defensive 
Magical Theory and started to read. 

It was desperately dull, quite as bad as listening to 
Professor Binns. He felt his concentration sliding 
away from him; he had soon read the same line half a 
dozen times without taking in more than the first few 
words. Several silent minutes passed. Next to him, 

Ron was absent-mindedly turning his quill over and 
over in his fingers, staring at the same spot on the 
page. Harry looked right and received a surprise to 
shake him out of his torpor. Hermione had not even 
opened her copy of Defensive Magical Theory. She was 
staring fixedly at Professor Umbridge with her hand 
in the air. 

Harry could not remember Hermione ever neglecting 
to read when instructed to, or indeed resisting the 
temptation to open any book that came under her 
nose. He looked at her questioningly, but she merely 
shook her head slightly to indicate that she was not 
about to answer questions, and continued to stare at 
Professor Umbridge, who was looking just as 
resolutely in another direction. 

After several more minutes had passed, however, 
Harry was not the only one watching Hermione. The 
chapter they had been instructed to read was so 
tedious that more and more people were choosing to 
watch Hermione’s mute attempt to catch Professor 
Page | 306Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Umbridge’s eye than to struggle on with “Basics for 
Beginners.” 

When more than half the class were staring at 
Hermione rather than at their books, Professor 
Umbridge seemed to decide that she could ignore the 
situation no longer. 

“Did you want to ask something about the chapter, 
dear?” she asked Hermione, as though she had only 
just noticed her. 

“Not about the chapter, no,” said Hermione. 

“Well, we’re reading just now,” said Professor 
Umbridge, showing her small, pointed teeth. “If you 
have other queries we can deal with them at the end 
of class.” 

“I’ve got a query about your course aims,” said 
Hermione. 

Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows. 

“And your name is — ?” 

“Hermione Granger,” said Hermione. 

“Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are 
perfectly clear if you read them through carefully,” 
said Professor Umbridge in a voice of determined 
sweetness. 

“Well, I don’t,” said Hermione bluntly. “There’s 
nothing written up there about using defensive 
spells.” 



Page | 307Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a short silence in which many members of 
the class turned their heads to frown at the three 
course aims still written on the blackboard. 

“ Using defensive spells?” Professor Umbridge repeated 
with a little laugh. “Why, I can’t imagine any situation 
arising in my classroom that would require you to use 
a defensive spell, Miss Granger. You surely aren’t 
expecting to be attacked during class?” 

“We’re not going to use magic?” Ron ejaculated loudly. 

“Students raise their hands when they wish to speak 
in my class, Mr. — ?” 

“Weasley,” said Ron, thrusting his hand into the air. 

Professor Umbridge, smiling still more widely, turned 
her back on him. Harry and Hermione immediately 
raised their hands too. Professor Umbridge’s pouchy 
eyes lingered on Harry for a moment before she 
addressed Hermione. 

“Yes, Miss Granger? You wanted to ask something 
else?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione. “Surely the whole point of 
Defense Against the Dark Arts is to practice defensive 
spells?” 

“Are you a Ministry-trained educational expert, Miss 
Granger?” asked Professor Umbridge in her falsely 
sweet voice. 

“No, but — ” 

“Well then, I’m afraid you are not qualified to decide 
what the Svhole point’ of any class is. Wizards much 
older and cleverer than you have devised our new 

Page | 308Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




program of study. You will be learning about 
defensive spells in a secure, risk-free way — ” 

“What use is that?” said Harry loudly. “If we’re going 
to be attacked it won’t be in a — ” 

“Hand, Mr. Potter!” sang Professor Umbridge. 

Harry thrust his fist in the air. Professor Umbridge 
promptly turned away from him again, but now 
several other people had their hands up too. 

“And your name is?” Professor Umbridge said to 
Dean. 

“Dean Thomas.” 

“Well, Mr. Thomas?” 

“Well, it’s like Harry said, isn’t it?” said Dean. “If we’re 
going to be attacked, it won’t be risk-free — ” 

“I repeat,” said Professor Umbridge, smiling in a very 
irritating fashion at Dean, “do you expect to be 
attacked during my classes?” 

“No, but — ” 

Professor Umbridge talked over him. 

“I do not wish to criticize the way things have been 
run in this school,” she said, an unconvincing smile 
stretching her wide mouth, “but you have been 
exposed to some very irresponsible wizards in this 
class, very irresponsible indeed — not to mention,” 
she gave a nasty little laugh, “extremely dangerous 
half-breeds.” 



Page | 309Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“If you mean Professor Lupin,” piped up Dean 
Thomas angrily, “he was the best we ever — ” 

“Hand, Mr. Thomas! As I was saying — you have been 
introduced to spells that have been complex, 
inappropriate to your age group, and potentially 
lethal. You have been frightened into believing that 
you are likely to meet Dark attacks every other day — 



“No we haven’t,” Hermione said, “we just — ” 

“Your hand is not up, Miss Grangeii” 

Hermione put up her hand; Professor Umbridge 
turned away from her. 

“It is my understanding that my predecessor not only 
performed illegal curses in front of you, he actually 
performed them on you — ” 

“Well, he turned out to be a maniac, didn’t he?” said 
Dean Thomas hotly. “Mind you, we still learned loads 



“Your hand is not up, Mr. ThomasY trilled Professor 
Umbridge. “Now, it is the view of the Ministry that a 
theoretical knowledge will be more than sufficient to 
get you through your examination, which, after all, is 
what school is all about. And your name is?” she 
added, staring at Parvati, whose hand had just shot 
up. 

“Parvati Patil, and isn’t there a practical bit in our 
Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L.? Aren’t we 
supposed to show that we can actually do the 
countercurses and things?” 



Page | 310Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“As long as you have studied the theory hard enough, 
there is no reason why you should not be able to 
perform the spells under carefully controlled 
examination conditions,” said Professor Umbridge 
dismissively. 

“Without ever practicing them before?” said Parvati 
incredulously. “Are you telling us that the first time 
we’ll get to do the spells will be during our exam?” 

“I repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard 
enough — ” 

“And what good’s theory going to be in the real 
world?” said Harry loudly, his fist in the air again. 

Professor Umbridge looked up. 

“This is school, Mr. Potter, not the real world,” she 
said softly. 

“So we’re not supposed to be prepared for what’s 
waiting out there?” 

“There is nothing waiting out there, Mr. Potter.” 

“Oh yeah?” said Harry. His temper, which seemed to 
have been bubbling just beneath the surface all day, 
was reaching boiling point. 

“Who do you imagine wants to attack children like 
yourselves?” inquired Professor Umbridge in a 
horribly honeyed voice. 

“Hmm, let’s think ...” said Harry in a mock thoughtful 
voice, “maybe Lord Voldemort?” 

Ron gasped; Lavender Brown uttered a little scream; 
Neville slipped sideways off his stool. Professor 

Page | 311Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Umbridge, however, did not flinch. She was staring at 
Harry with a grimly satisfied expression on her face. 



“Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr. Potter.” 

The classroom was silent and still. Everyone was 
staring at either Umbridge or Harry. 

“Now, let me make a few things quite plain.” 

Professor Umbridge stood up and leaned toward 
them, her stubby-fingered hands splayed on her desk. 

“You have been told that a certain Dark wizard has 
returned from the dead — ” 

“He wasn’t dead,” said Harry angrily, “but yeah, he’s 
returned!” 

“Mr.-Potter-you-have-already-lost-your-House-ten- 
points-do-not-make-matters-worse-for-yourself,” said 
Professor Umbridge in one breath without looking at 
him. “As I was saying, you have been informed that a 
certain Dark wizard is at large once again. This is a 
lie.” 

“It is NOT a lie!” said Harry. “I saw him, I fought him!” 

“Detention, Mr. Potter!” said Professor Umbridge 
triumphantly. “Tomorrow evening. Five o’clock. My 
office. I repeat, this is a lie. The Ministry of Magic 
guarantees that you are not in danger from any Dark 
wizard. If you are still worried, by all means come and 
see me outside class hours. If someone is alarming 
you with fibs about reborn Dark wizards, I would like 
to hear about it. I am here to help. I am your friend. 
And now, you will kindly continue your reading. Page 
five, ‘Basics for Beginners.’ ” 

Page | 312Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Umbridge sat down behind her desk again. 
Harry, however, stood up. Everyone was staring at 
him; Seamus looked half-scared, half-fascinated. 

“Harry, no!” Hermione whispered in a warning voice, 
tugging at his sleeve, but Harry jerked his arm out of 
her reach. 

“So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of 
his own accord, did he?” Harry asked, his voice 
shaking. 

There was a collective intake of breath from the class, 
for none of them, apart from Ron and Hermione, had 
ever heard Harry talk about what had happened on 
the night that Cedric had died. They stared avidly 
from Harry to Professor Umbridge, who had raised 
her eyes and was staring at him without a trace of a 
fake smile on her face. 

“Cedric Diggory’s death was a tragic accident,” she 
said coldly. 

“It was murder,” said Harry. He could feel himself 
shaking. He had hardly talked to anyone about this, 
least of all thirty eagerly listening classmates. 
“Voldemort killed him, and you know it.” 

Professor Umbridge’s face was quite blank. For a 
moment he thought she was going to scream at him. 
Then she said, in her softest, most sweetly girlish 
voice, “Come here, Mr. Potter, dear.” 

He kicked his chair aside, strode around Ron and 
Hermione and up to the teacher’s desk. He could feel 
the rest of the class holding its breath. He felt so 
angry he did not care what happened next. 



Page | 313Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Umbridge pulled a small roll of pink 
parchment out of her handbag, stretched it out on the 
desk, dipped her quill into a bottle of ink, and started 
scribbling, hunched over so that Harry could not see 
what she was writing. Nobody spoke. After a minute 
or so she rolled up the parchment and tapped it with 
her wand; it sealed itself seamlessly so that he could 
not open it. 

“Take this to Professor McGonagall, dear,” said 
Professor Umbridge, holding out the note to him. 

