ever encountered the thing that was then Voldemort, 
and how he had faced him, and how he and 
Dumbledore had discussed fighting a losing battle not 
long thereafter. It was important, Dumbledore said, to 
fight, and fight again, and keep fighting, for only then 
could evil be kept at bay, though never quite 
eradicated. ... 

And Harry saw very clearly as he sat there under the 
hot sun how people who cared about him had stood 
in front of him one by one, his mother, his father, his 
godfather, and finally Dumbledore, all determined to 
protect him; but now that was over. He could not let 
anybody else stand between him and Voldemort; he 
must abandon forever the illusion he ought to have 
lost at the age of one, that the shelter of a parent’s 
arms meant that nothing could hurt him. There was 
no waking from his nightmare, no comforting whisper 
in the dark that he was safe really, that it was all in 
his imagination; the last and greatest of his protectors 
had died, and he was more alone than he had ever 
been before. 

The little man in black had stopped speaking at last 
and resumed his seat. Harry waited for somebody else 
to get to their feet; he expected speeches, probably 
from the Minister, but nobody moved. 



Page | 722 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Then several people screamed. Bright, white flames 
had erupted around Dumbledore’s body and the table 
upon which it lay: Higher and higher they rose, 
obscuring the body. White smoke spiraled into the air 
and made strange shapes: Harry thought, for one 
heart- stopping moment, that he saw a phoenix fly 
joyfully into the blue, but next second the fire had 
vanished. In its place was a white marble tomb, 
encasing Dumbledore’s body and the table on which 
he had rested. 

There were a few more cries of shock as a shower of 
arrows soared through the air, but they fell far short 
of the crowd. It was, Harry knew, the centaurs’ 
tribute: He saw them turn tail and disappear back 
into the cool trees. Likewise, the merpeople sank 
slowly back into the green water and were lost from 
view. 

Harry looked at Ginny, Ron, and Hermione: Ron’s 
face was screwed up as though the sunlight were 
blinding him. Hermione ’s face was glazed with tears, 
but Ginny was no longer crying. She met Harry’s gaze 
with the same hard, blazing look that he had seen 
when she had hugged him after winning the 
Quidditch Cup in his absence, and he knew that at 
that moment they understood each other perfectly, 
and that when he told her what he was going to do 
now, she would not say, “Be careful,” or “Don’t do it,” 
but accept his decision, because she would not have 
expected anything less of him. And so he steeled 
himself to say what he had known he must say ever 
since Dumbledore had died. 

“Ginny, listen ...” he said very quietly, as the buzz of 
conversation grew louder around them and people 
began to get to their feet, “I can’t be involved with you 
anymore. We’ve got to stop seeing each other. We 
can’t be together.” 

Page | 723 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




She said, with an oddly twisted smile, “It’s for some 
stupid, noble reason, isn’t it?” 

“It’s been like ... like something out of someone else’s 
life, these last few weeks with you,” said Harry. “But I 
can’t ... we can’t ... I’ve got things to do alone now.” 

She did not cry, she simply looked at him. 

“Voldemort uses people his enemies are close to. He’s 
already used you as bait once, and that was just 
because you’re my best friend’s sister. Think how 
much danger you’ll be in if we keep this up. He’ll 
know, hell find out. He’ll try and get to me through 
you.” 

“What if I don’t care?” said Ginny fiercely. 

“I care,” said Harry. “How do you think I’d feel if this 
was your funeral ... and it was my fault. ...” 

She looked away from him, over the lake. 

“I never really gave up on you,” she said. “Not really. I 
always hoped. ... Hermione told me to get on with life, 
maybe go out with some other people, relax a bit 
around you, because I never used to be able to talk if 
you were in the room, remember? And she thought 
you might take a bit more notice if I was a bit more — 
myself.” 

“Smart girl, that Hermione,” said Harry, trying to 
smile. “I just wish I’d asked you sooner. We could’ve 
had ages ... months ... years maybe. ...” 

“But you’ve been too busy saving the Wizarding 
world,” said Ginny, half laughing. “Well ... I can’t say 
I’m surprised. I knew this would happen in the end. I 



Page | 724 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




knew you wouldn’t be happy unless you were hunting 
Voldemort. Maybe that’s why I like you so much.” 

Harry could not bear to hear these things, nor did he 
think his resolution would hold if he remained sitting 
beside her. Ron, he saw, was now holding Hermione 
and stroking her hair while she sobbed into his 
shoulder, tears dripping from the end of his own long 
nose. With a miserable gesture, Harry got up, turned 
his back on Ginny and on Dumbledore’s tomb, and 
walked away around the lake. Moving felt much more 
bearable than sitting still, just as setting out as soon 
as possible to track down the Horcruxes and kill 
Voldemort would feel better than waiting to do it. ... 

“Harry!” 

He turned. Rufus Scrimgeour was limping rapidly 
toward him around the bank, leaning on his walking 
stick. 

“I’ve been hoping to have a word ... do you mind if I 
walk a little way with you?” 

“No,” said Harry indifferently, and set off again. 

“Harry, this was a dreadful tragedy,” said Scrimgeour 
quietly. “I cannot tell you how appalled I was to hear 
of it. Dumbledore was a very great wizard. We had our 
disagreements, as you know, but no one knows better 
than I — ” 

“What do you want?” asked Harry flatly. 

Scrimgeour looked annoyed, but as before, hastily 
modified his expression to one of sorrowful 
understanding. 



Page | 725 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You are, of course, devastated,” he said. “I know that 
you were very close to Dumbledore. I think you may 
have been his favorite pupil ever. The bond between 
the two of you — ” 

“What do you want?” Harry repeated, coming to a 
halt. 

Scrimgeour stopped too, leaned on his stick, and 
stared at Harry, his expression shrewd now. 

“The word is that you were with him when he left the 
school the night that he died.” 

“Whose word?” said Harry. 

“Somebody Stupefied a Death Eater on top of the 
tower after Dumbledore died. There were also two 
broomsticks up there. The Ministry can add two and 
two, Harry.” 

“Glad to hear it,” said Harry. “Well, where I went with 
Dumbledore and what we did is my business. He 
didn’t want people to know.” 

“Such loyalty is admirable, of course,” said 
Scrimgeour, who seemed to be restraining his 
irritation with difficulty, “but Dumbledore is gone, 
Harry. He’s gone.” 

“He will only be gone from the school when none here 
are loyal to him,” said Harry, smiling in spite of 
himself. 

“My dear boy . . . even Dumbledore cannot return from 
the — ” 

“I am not saying he can. You wouldn’t understand. 

But I’ve got nothing to tell you.” 

Page | 726 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Scrimgeour hesitated, then said, in what was 
evidently supposed to be a tone of delicacy, “The 
Ministry can offer you all sorts of protection, you 
know, Harry. I would be delighted to place a couple of 
my Aurors at your service — ” 

Harry laughed. “Voldemort wants to kill me himself, 
and Aurors won’t stop him. So thanks for the offer, 
but no thanks.” 

“So,” said Scrimgeour, his voice cold now, “the 
request I made of you at Christmas — ” 

“What request? Oh yeah . . . the one where I tell the 
world what a great job you’re doing in exchange for — ” 

“ — for raising everyone’s morale!” snapped 
Scrimgeour. 

Harry considered him for a moment. 

“Released Stan Shunpike yet?” 

Scrimgeour turned a nasty purple color highly 
reminiscent of Uncle Vernon. 

“I see you are — ” 

“Dumbledore’s man through and through,” said 
Harry. “That’s right.” 

Scrimgeour glared at him for another moment, then 
turned and limped away without another word. Harry 
could see Percy and the rest of the Ministry delegation 
waiting for him, casting nervous glances at the 
sobbing Hagrid and Grawp, who were still in their 
seats. Ron and Hermione were hurrying toward 
Harry, passing Scrimgeour going in the opposite 
direction. Harry turned and walked slowly on, waiting 
Page | 727 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




for them to catch up, which they finally did in the 
shade of a beech tree under which they had sat in 
happier times. 

“What did Scrimgeour want?” Hermione whispered. 

“Same as he wanted at Christmas,” shrugged Harry. 
“Wanted me to give him inside information on 
Dumbledore and be the Ministry’s new poster boy.” 

Ron seemed to struggle with himself for a moment, 
then he said loudly to Hermione, “Look, let me go 
back and hit Percy!” 

“No,” she said firmly, grabbing his arm. 

“It’ll make me feel better!” 

Harry laughed. Even Hermione grinned a little, 
though her smile faded as she looked up at the castle. 

“I can’t bear the idea that we might never come back,” 
she said softly. “How can Hogwarts close?” 

“Maybe it won’t,” said Ron. “We’re not in any more 
danger here than we are at home, are we? 
Everywhere’s the same now. I’d even say Hogwarts is 
safer, there are more wizards inside to defend the 
place. What d’you reckon, Harry?” 

“I’m not coming back even if it does reopen,” said 
Harry. 

Ron gaped at him, but Hermione said sadly, “I knew 
you were going to say that. But then what will you 
do?” 



Page | 728 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm going back to the Dursleys’ once more, because 
Dumbledore wanted me to,” said Harry. “But it’ll be a 
short visit, and then I’ll be gone for good.” 

“But where will you go if you don’t come back to 
school?” 

“I thought I might go back to Godric’s Hollow,” Harry 
muttered. He had had the idea in his head ever since 
the night of Dumbledore’s death. “For me, it started 
there, all of it. I’ve just got a feeling I need to go there. 
And I can visit my parents’ graves, I’d like that.” 

“And then what?” said Ron. 

“Then I’ve got to track down the rest of the Horcruxes, 
haven’t I?” said Harry, his eyes upon Dumbledore’s 
white tomb, reflected in the water on the other side of 
the lake. “That’s what he wanted me to do, that’s why 
he told me all about them. If Dumbledore was right — 
and I’m sure he was — there are still four of them out 
there. I’ve got to find them and destroy them, and 
then I’ve got to go after the seventh bit of Voldemort’s 
soul, the bit that’s still in his body, and I’m the one 
who’s going to kill him. And if I meet Severus Snape 
along the way,” he added, “so much the better for me, 
so much the worse for him.” 

There was a long silence. The crowd had almost 
dispersed now, the stragglers giving the monumental 
figure of Grawp a wide berth as he cuddled Hagrid, 
whose howls of grief were still echoing across the 
water. 

“Well be there, Harry,” said Ron. 

“What?” 



Page | 729 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“At your aunt and uncle’s house,” said Ron. “And 
then well go with you wherever you’re going.” 

“No — ” said Harry quickly; he had not counted on 
this, he had meant them to understand that he was 
undertaking this most dangerous journey alone. 

“You said to us once before,” said Hermione quietly, 
“that there was time to turn back if we wanted to. 
We’ve had time, haven’t we? 

“We’re with you whatever happens,” said Ron. “But 
mate, you’re going to have to come round my mum 
and dad’s house before we do anything else, even 
Godric’s Hollow.” 

“Why?” 

“Bill and Fleur’s wedding, remember?” 

Harry looked at him, startled; the idea that anything 
as normal as a wedding could still exist seemed 
incredible and yet wonderful. 

“Yeah, we shouldn’t miss that,” he said finally. 

His hand closed automatically around the fake 
Horcrux, but in spite of everything, in spite of the 
dark and twisting path he saw stretching ahead for 
himself, in spite of the final meeting with Voldemort 
he knew must come, whether in a month, in a year, 
or in ten, he felt his heart lift at the thought that 
there was still one last golden day of peace left to 
enjoy with Ron and Hermione. 



Page | 730 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




