
Lupin took his time chewing his turkey and 
swallowing before saying slowly, “Sometimes ... a 
great shock ... an emotional upheaval ...” 

“It looked big, and it had four legs,” said Harry, 
struck by a sudden thought and lowering his voice. 
“Hey ... it couldn’t be — ?” 

“Arthur!” said Mrs. Weasley suddenly. She had risen 
from her chair; her hand was pressed over her heart 
and she was staring out of the kitchen window. 
“Arthur — it’s Percy!” 

“What?” 

Mr. Weasley looked around. Everybody looked quickly 
at the window; Ginny stood up for a better look. 

There, sure enough, was Percy Weasley, striding 
across the snowy yard, his horn-rimmed glasses 
glinting in the sunlight. He was not, however, alone. 

“Arthur, he’s — he’s with the Minister!” 

And sure enough, the man Harry had seen in the 
Daily Prophet was following along in Percy’s wake, 
limping slightly, his mane of graying hair and his 
black cloak flecked with snow. Before any of them 
could say anything, before Mr. and Mrs. Weasley 
could do more than exchange stunned looks, the back 
door opened and there stood Percy. 

There was a moment’s painful silence. Then Percy 
said rather stiffly, “Merry Christmas, Mother.” 



Page | 384 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, Percy\” said Mrs. Weasley, and she threw herself 
into his arms. 



Rufus Scrimgeour paused in the doorway, leaning on 
his walking stick and smiling as he observed this 
affecting scene. 

“You must forgive this intrusion,” he said, when Mrs. 
Weasley looked around at him, beaming and wiping 
her eyes. “Percy and I were in the vicinity — working, 
you know — and he couldn’t resist dropping in and 
seeing you all.” 

But Percy showed no sign of wanting to greet any of 
the rest of the family. He stood, poker-straight and 
awkward-looking, and stared over everybody else’s 
heads. Mr. Weasley, Fred, and George were all 
observing him, stony-faced. 

“Please, come in, sit down, Minister!” fluttered Mrs. 
Weasley, straightening her hat. “Have a little purkey, 
or some tooding. ... I mean — ” 

“No, no, my dear Molly,” said Scrimgeour. Harry 
guessed that he had checked her name with Percy 
before they entered the house. “I don’t want to 
intrude, wouldn’t be here at all if Percy hadn’t wanted 
to see you all so badly. ...” 

“Oh, Perce!” said Mrs. Weasley tearfully, reaching up 
to kiss him. 

"... We’ve only looked in for five minutes, so I’ll have a 
stroll around the yard while you catch up with Percy. 
No, no, I assure you I don’t want to butt in! Well, if 
anybody cared to show me your charming garden . . . 
Ah, that young man’s finished, why doesn’t he take a 
stroll with me?” 

Page | 385 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




The atmosphere around the table changed 
perceptibly. Everybody looked from Scrimgeour to 
Harry. Nobody seemed to find Scrimgeour s pretense 
that he did not know Harry’s name convincing, or find 
it natural that he should be chosen to accompany the 
Minister around the garden when Ginny, Fleur, and 
George also had clean plates. 

“Yeah, all right,” said Harry into the silence. 

He was not fooled; for all Scrimgeour’s talk that they 
had just been in the area, that Percy wanted to look 
up his family, this must be the real reason that they 
had come, so that Scrimgeour could speak to Harry 
alone. 

“It’s fine,” he said quietly, as he passed Lupin, who 
had half risen from his chair. “Fine,” he added, as Mr. 
Weasley opened his mouth to speak. 

“Wonderful!” said Scrimgeour, standing back to let 
Harry pass through the door ahead of him. “We’ll just 
take a turn around the garden, and Percy and I’ll be 
off. Carry on, everyone!” 

Harry walked across the yard toward the Weasleys’ 
overgrown, snow-covered garden, Scrimgeour limping 
slightly at his side. He had, Harry knew, been Head of 
the Auror office; he looked tough and battle-scarred, 
very different from portly Fudge in his bowler hat. 

“Charming,” said Scrimgeour, stopping at the garden 
fence and looking out over the snowy lawn and the 
indistinguishable plants. “Charming.” 

Harry said nothing. He could tell that Scrimgeour was 
watching him. 



Page | 386 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ve wanted to meet you for a very long time,” said 
Scrimgeour, after a few moments. “Did you know 
that?” 

“No,” said Harry truthfully. 

“Oh yes, for a very long time. But Dumbledore has 
been very protective of you,” said Scrimgeour. 
“Natural, of course, natural, after what you’ve been 
through. ... Especially what happened at the Ministry 



He waited for Harry to say something, but Harry did 
not oblige, so he went on, “I have been hoping for an 
occasion to talk to you ever since I gained office, but 
Dumbledore has — most understandably, as I say — 
prevented this.” 

Still, Harry said nothing, waiting. 

“The rumors that have flown around!” said 
Scrimgeour. “Well, of course, we both know how these 
stories get distorted ... all these whispers of a 
prophecy ... of you being ‘the Chosen One’...” 

They were getting near it now, Harry thought, the 
reason Scrimgeour was here. 

"... I assume that Dumbledore has discussed these 
matters with you?” 

Harry deliberated, wondering whether he ought to lie 
or not. He looked at the little gnome prints all around 
the flowerbeds, and the scuffed-up patch that marked 
the spot where Fred had caught the gnome now 
wearing the tutu at the top of the Christmas tree. 
Finally, he decided on the truth ... or a bit of it. 

“Yeah, we’ve discussed it.” 

Page | 387 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Have you, have you ...” said Scrimgeour. Harry could 
see, out of the corner of his eye, Scrimgeour squinting 
at him, so he pretended to be very interested in a 
gnome that had just poked its head out from 
underneath a frozen rhododendron. “And what has 
Dumbledore told you, Harry?” 

“Sorry, but that’s between us,” said Harry. He kept 
his voice as pleasant as he could, and Scrimgeour’s 
tone, too, was light and friendly as he said, “Oh, of 
course, if it’s a question of confidences, I wouldn’t 
want you to divulge ... no, no ... and in any case, does 
it really matter whether you are ‘the Chosen One’ or 
not?” ” 

Harry had to mull that one over for a few seconds 
before responding. “I don’t really know what you 
mean, Minister.” 

“Well, of course, to you it will matter enormously,” 
said Scrimgeour with a laugh. “But to the Wizarding 
community at large ... it’s all perception, isn’t it? It’s 
what people believe that’s important.” 

Harry said nothing. He thought he saw, dimly, where 
they were heading, but he was not going to help 
Scrimgeour get there. The gnome under the 
rhododendron was now digging for worms at its roots, 
and Harry kept his eyes fixed upon it. 

“People believe you are ‘the Chosen One,’ you see,” 
said Scrimgeour. “They think you quite the hero — 
which, of course, you are, Harry, chosen or not! How 
many times have you faced He-Who-Must-Not-Be- 
Named now? Well, anyway,” he pressed on, without 
waiting for a reply, “the point is, you are a symbol of 
hope for many, Harry. The idea that there is 
somebody out there who might be able, who might 
even be destined, to destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be- 
Page | 388 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Named — well, naturally, it gives people a lift. And I 
can’t help but feel that, once you realize this, you 
might consider it, well, almost a duty, to stand 
alongside the Ministry, and give everyone a boost.” 

The gnome had just managed to get hold of a worm. It 
was now tugging very hard on it, trying to get it out of 
the frozen ground. Harry was silent so long that 
Scrimgeour said, looking from Harry to the gnome, 
“Funny little chaps, aren’t they? But what say you, 
Harry?” 

“I don’t exactly understand what you want,” said 
Harry slowly. “ ‘Stand alongside the Ministry’ ... What 
does that mean?” 

“Oh, well, nothing at all onerous, I assure you,” said 
Scrimgeour. “If you were to be seen popping in and 
out of the Ministry from time to time, for instance, 
that would give the right impression. And of course, 
while you were there, you would have ample 
opportunity to speak to Gawain Robards, my 
successor as Head of the Auror office. Dolores 
Umbridge has told me that you cherish an ambition 
to become an Auror. Well, that could be arranged very 
easily. ...” 

Harry felt anger bubbling in the pit of his stomach: So 
Dolores Umbridge was still at the Ministry, was she? 

“So basically,” he said, as though he just wanted to 
clarify a few points, “you’d like to give the impression 
that I’m working for the Ministry?” 

“It would give everyone a lift to think you were more 
involved, Harry,” said Scrimgeour, sounding relieved 
that Harry had cottoned on so quickly. “ The Chosen 
One,’ you know ... It’s all about giving people hope, 
the feeling that exciting things are happening. ...” 
Page | 389 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But if I keep running in and out of the Ministry,” 
said Harry, still endeavoring to keep his voice friendly, 
“won’t that seem as though I approve of what the 
Ministry’s up to?” 

“Well,” said Scrimgeour, frowning slightly, “well, yes, 
that’s partly why we’d like — ” 

“No, I don’t think that’ll work,” said Harry pleasantly. 
“You see, I don’t like some of the things the Ministry’s 
doing. Locking up Stan Shunpike, for instance.” 

Scrimgeour did not speak for a moment but his 
expression hardened instantly. “I would not expect 
you to understand,” he said, and he was not as 
successful at keeping anger out of his voice as Harry 
had been. “These are dangerous times, and certain 
measures need to be taken. You are sixteen years old 



“Dumbledore’s a lot older than sixteen, and he doesn’t 
think Stan should be in Azkaban either,” said Harry. 
“You’re making Stan a scapegoat, just like you want 
to make me a mascot.” 

They looked at each other, long and hard. Finally 
Scrimgeour said, with no pretense at warmth, “I see. 
You prefer — like your hero, Dumbledore — to 
disassociate yourself from the Ministry?” 

“I don’t want to be used,” said Harry. 

“Some would say it’s your duty to be used by the 
Ministry!” 

“Yeah, and others might say it’s your duty to check 
that people really are Death Eaters before you chuck 
them in prison,” said Harry, his temper rising now. 
“You’re doing what Barty Crouch did. You never get it 

Page | 390 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




right, you people, do you? Either we’ve got Fudge, 
pretending everything’s lovely while people get 
murdered right under his nose, or we’ve got you, 
chucking the wrong people into jail and trying to 
pretend you’ve got ‘the Chosen One’ working for you!” 

“So you’re not ‘the Chosen One’?” said Scrimgeour. 

“I thought you said it didn’t matter either way?” said 
Harry, with a bitter laugh. “Not to you anyway.” 

“I shouldn’t have said that,” said Scrimgeour quickly. 
“It was tactless — ” 

“No, it was honest,” said Harry. “One of the only 
honest things you’ve said to me. You don’t care 
whether I live or die, but you do care that I help you 
convince everyone you’re winning the war against 
Voldemort. I haven’t forgotten, Minister. ...” 

He raised his right fist. There, shining white on the 
back of his cold hand, were the scars which Dolores 
Umbridge had forced him to carve into his own flesh: / 
must not tell lies. 

“I don’t remember you rushing to my defense when I 
was trying to tell everyone Voldemort was back. The 
Ministry wasn’t so keen to be pals last year.” 

They stood in silence as icy as the ground beneath 
their feet. The gnome had finally managed to extricate 
his worm and was now sucking on it happily, leaning 
against the bottommost branches of the 
rhododendron bush. 

“What is Dumbledore up to?” said Scrimgeour 
brusquely. “Where does he go when he is absent from 
Hogwarts?” 



Page | 391 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No idea,” said Harry. 

“And you wouldn’t tell me if you knew,” said 
Scrimgeour, “would you?” 

“No, I wouldn’t,” said Harry. 

“Well, then, I shall have to see whether I can’t find out 
by other means.” 

“You can try,” said Harry indifferently. “But you seem 
cleverer than Fudge, so I’d have thought you’d have 
learned from his mistakes. He tried interfering at 
Hogwarts. You might have noticed he’s not Minister 
anymore, but Dumbledore’s still headmaster. I’d leave 
Dumbledore alone, if I were you.” 

There was a long pause. 

“Well, it is clear to me that he has done a very good 
job on you,” said Scrimgeour, his eyes cold and hard 
behind his wire-rimmed glasses. “Dumbledore’s man 
through and through, aren’t you, Potter?” 

“Yeah, I am,” said Harry. “Glad we straightened that 
out.” 

And turning his back on the Minister of Magic, he 
strode back toward the house. 



Page | 392 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






A SLUGGISH MEMORY 

Late in the afternoon, a few days after New Year, 
Harry, Ron, and Ginny lined up beside the kitchen 
fire to return to Hogwarts. The Ministry had arranged 
this one-off connection to the Floo Network to return 
students quickly and safely to the school. Only Mrs. 
Weasley was there to say good-bye, as Mr. Weasley, 
Fred, George, Bill, and Fleur were all at work. Mrs. 
Weasley dissolved into tears at the moment of parting. 
Admittedly, it took very little to set her off lately; she 
had been crying on and off ever since Percy had 
stormed from the house on Christmas Day with his 
glasses splattered with mashed parsnip (for which 
Fred, George, and Ginny all claimed credit). 

“Don’t cry, Mum,” said Ginny, patting her on the back 
as Mrs. Weasley sobbed into her shoulder. “It’s okay. 



“Yeah, don’t worry about us,” said Ron, permitting his 
mother to plant a very wet kiss on his cheek, “or 



Page | 393 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



about Percy. He’s such a prat, it’s not really a loss, is 
it?” 



Mrs. Weasley sobbed harder than ever as she 
enfolded Harry in her arms. 

“Promise me you’ll look after yourself. ... Stay out of 
trouble. ...” 

“I always do, Mrs. Weasley,” said Harry. “I like a quiet 
life, you know me.” 

She gave a watery chuckle and stood back. “Be good, 
then, all of you. ...” 

Harry stepped into the emerald fire and shouted 
“Hogwarts!” He had one last fleeting view of the 
Weasleys’ kitchen and Mrs. Weasley’s tearful face 
before the flames engulfed him; spinning very fast, he 
caught blurred glimpses of other Wizarding rooms, 
which were whipped out of sight before he could get a 
proper look; then he was slowing down, finally 
stopping squarely in the fireplace in Professor 
McGonagall’s office. She barely glanced up from her 
work as he clambered out over the grate. 

“Evening, Potter. Try not to get too much ash on the 
carpet.” 

“No, Professor.” 

Harry straightened his glasses and flattened his hair 
as Ron came spinning into view. When Ginny had 
arrived, all three of them trooped out of McGonagall’s 
office and off toward Gryffindor Tower. Harry glanced 
out of the corridor windows as they passed; the sun 
was already sinking over grounds carpeted in deeper 
snow than had lain over the Burrow garden. In the 



Page | 394 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




distance, he could see Hagrid feeding Buckbeak in 
front of his cabin. 



“Baubles,” said Ron confidently, when they reached 
the Fat Lady, who was looking rather paler than 
usual and winced at his loud voice. 

“No,” she said. 

“What d’you mean, ‘no’?” 

“There is a new password,” she said. “And please 
don’t shout.” 

“But we’ve been away, how’re we supposed to — ?” 
“Harry! Ginny!” 

Hermione was hurrying toward them, very pink-faced 
and wearing a cloak, hat, and gloves. 

“I got back a couple of hours ago, I’ve just been down 
to visit Hagrid and Buck — I mean Witherwings,” she 
said breathlessly. “Did you have a good Christmas?” 

“Yeah,” said Ron at once, “pretty eventful, Rufus 
Scrim — ” 

“I’ve got something for you, Harry,” said Hermione, 
neither looking at Ron nor giving any sign that she 
had heard him. “Oh, hang on — password. 
Abstinence.” 

“Precisely,” said the Fat Lady in a feeble voice, and 
swung forward to reveal the portrait hole. 

“What’s up with her?” asked Harry. 



Page | 395 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Overindulged over Christmas, apparently,” said 
Hermione, rolling her eyes as she led the way into the 
packed common room. “She and her friend Violet 
drank their way through all the wine in that picture of 
drunk monks down by the Charms corridor. Anyway 



She rummaged in her pocket for a moment, then 
pulled out a scroll of parchment with Dumbledore’s 
writing on it. 

“Great,” said Harry, unrolling it at once to discover 
that his next lesson with Dumbledore was scheduled 
for the following night. “I’ve got loads to tell him — 
and you. Let’s sit down — ” 

But at that moment there was a loud squeal of “Won- 
Won!” and Lavender Brown came hurtling out of 
nowhere and flung herself into Ron’s arms. Several 
onlookers sniggered; Hermione gave a tinkling laugh 
and said, “There’s a table over here. ... Coming, 
Ginny?” 

“No, thanks, I said I’d meet Dean,” said Ginny, 
though Harry could not help noticing that she did not 
sound very enthusiastic. Leaving Ron and Lavender 
locked in a kind of vertical wrestling match, Harry led 
Hermione over to the spare table. 

“So how was your Christmas?” 

“Oh, fine,” she shrugged. “Nothing special. How was it 
at Won-Won’s?” 

“I’ll tell you in a minute,” said Harry. “Look, 

Hermione, can’t you — ?” 

“No, I can’t,” she said flatly. “So don’t even ask.” 



Page | 396 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I thought maybe, you know, over Christmas — ” 



“It was the Fat Lady who drank a vat of five-hundred- 
year- old wine, Harry, not me. So what was this 
important news you wanted to tell me?” 

She looked too fierce to argue with at that moment, so 
Harry dropped the subject of Ron and recounted all 
that he had overheard between Malfoy and Snape. 
When he had finished, Hermione sat in thought for a 
moment and then said, “Don’t you think — ?” 

“ — he was pretending to offer help so that he could 
trick Malfoy into telling him what he’s doing?” 

“Well, yes,” said Hermione. 

“Ron’s dad and Lupin think so,” Harry said 
grudgingly. “But this definitely proves Malfoy’s 
planning something, you can’t deny that.” 

“No, I can’t,” she answered slowly. 

“And he’s acting on Voldemort’s orders, just like I 
said!” 

“Hmm . . . did either of them actually mention 
Voldemort’s name?” 

Harry frowned, trying to remember. “I’m not sure ... 
Snape definitely said your master,’ and who else 
would that be?” 

“I don’t know,” said Hermione, biting her lip. “Maybe 
his father?” 

She stared across the room, apparently lost in 
thought, not even noticing Lavender tickling Ron. 
“How’s Lupin?” 

Page | 397 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Not great,” said Harry, and he told her all about 
Lupin’s mission among the werewolves and the 
difficulties he was facing. “Have you heard of this 
Fenrir Grey back?” 

“Yes, I have!” said Hermione, sounding startled. “And 
so have you, Harry!” 

“When, History of Magic? You know full well I never 
listened ...” 

“No, no, not History of Magic — Malfoy threatened 
Borgin with him!” said Hermione. “Back in Knockturn 
Alley, don’t you remember? He told Borgin that 
Grey back was an old family friend and that he’d be 
checking up on Borgin’s progress!” 

Harry gaped at her. “I forgot! But this proves Malfoy’s 
a Death Eater, how else could he be in contact with 
Greyback and telling him what to do?” 

“It is pretty suspicious,” breathed Hermione. “Unless 



“Oh, come on,” said Harry in exasperation, “you can’t 
get round this one!” 

“Well ... there is the possibility it was an empty 
threat.” 

“You’re unbelievable, you are,” said Harry, shaking 
his head. “We’ll see who’s right. ... You’ll be eating 
your words, Hermione, just like the Ministry. Oh 
yeah, I had a row with Rufus Scrimgeour as well. ...” 

And the rest of the evening passed amicably with both 
of them abusing the Minister of Magic, for Hermione, 
like Ron, thought that after all the Ministry had put 



Page | 398 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry through the previous year, they had a great 
deal of nerve asking him for help now. 

The new term started next morning with a pleasant 
surprise for the sixth years: a large sign had been 
pinned to the common room notice boards overnight. 

APPARITION LESSONS 

If you are seventeen years of age, or will turn 
seventeen on or before the 31st August next, you are 
eligible for a twelve-week course of Apparition Lessons 
from a Ministry of Magic Apparition instructor. Please 
sign below if you would like to participate. Cost: 12 
Galleons. 

Harry and Ron joined the crowd that was jostling 
around the notice and taking it in turns to write their 
names at the bottom. Ron was just taking out his 
quill to sign after Hermione when Lavender crept up 
behind him, slipped her hands over his eyes, and 
trilled, “Guess who, Won-Won?” Harry turned to see 
Hermione stalking off; he caught up with her, having 
no wish to stay behind with Ron and Lavender, but to 
his surprise, Ron caught up with them only a little 
way beyond the portrait hole, his ears bright red and 
his expression disgruntled. Without a word, Hermione 
sped up to walk with Neville. 

“So — Apparition,” said Ron, his tone making it 
perfectly plain that Harry was not to mention what 
had just happened. “Should be a laugh, eh?” 

“I dunno,” said Harry. “Maybe it’s better when you do 
it yourself, I didn’t enjoy it much when Dumbledore 
took me along for the ride.” 



Page | 399 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I forgot you’d already done it. ... I’d better pass my 
test first time,” said Ron, looking anxious. “Fred and 
George did.” 

“Charlie failed, though, didn’t he?” 

“Yeah, but Charlie’s bigger than me” — Ron held his 
arms out from his body as though he was a gorilla — 
“so Fred and George didn’t go on about it much ... not 
to his face anyway ...” 

“When can we take the actual test?” 

“Soon as we’re seventeen. That’s only March for me!” 

“Yeah, but you wouldn’t be able to Apparate in here, 
not in the castle ...” 

“Not the point, is it? Everyone would know I could 
Apparate if I wanted.” 

Ron was not the only one to be excited at the prospect 
of Apparition. All that day there was much talk about 
the forthcoming lessons; a great deal of store was set 
by being able to vanish and reappear at will. 

“How cool will it be when we can just — ” Seamus 
clicked his fingers to indicate disappearance. “Me 
cousin Fergus does it just to annoy me, you wait till I 
can do it back ... He’ll never have another peaceful 
moment. ...” 

Lost in visions of this happy prospect, he flicked his 
wand a little too enthusiastically, so that instead of 
producing the fountain of pure water that was the 
object of today’s Charms lesson, he let out a hoselike 
jet that ricocheted off the ceiling and knocked 
Professor Flitwick flat on his face. 



Page | 400 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry’s already Apparated,” Ron told a slightly 
abashed Seamus, after Professor Flitwick had dried 
himself off with a wave of his wand and set Seamus 
lines: “I am a wizard, not a baboon brandishing a 
stick.” “Dum — er — someone took him. Side-Along- 
Apparition, you know.” 

“Whoa!” whispered Seamus, and he, Dean, and 
Neville put their heads a little closer to hear what 
Apparition felt like. For the rest of the day, Harry was 
besieged with requests from the other sixth years to 
describe the sensation of Apparition. All of them 
seemed awed, rather than put off, when he told them 
how uncomfortable it was, and he was still answering 
detailed questions at ten to eight that evening, when 
he was forced to lie and say that he needed to return 
a book to the library, so as to escape in time for his 
lesson with Dumbledore. 

The lamps in Dumbledore ’s office were lit, the 
portraits of previous headmasters were snoring gently 
in their frames, and the Pensieve was ready upon the 
desk once more. Dumbledore ’s hands lay on either 
side of it, the right one as blackened and burnt- 
looking as ever. It did not seem to have healed at all 
and Harry wondered, for perhaps the hundredth time, 
what had caused such a distinctive injury, but did 
not ask; Dumbledore had said that he would know 
eventually and there was, in any case, another 
subject he wanted to discuss. But before Harry could 
say anything about Snape and Malfoy, Dumbledore 
spoke. 

“I hear that you met the Minister of Magic over 
Christmas?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. “He’s not very happy with me.” 



Page | 401 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




“No,” sighed Dumbledore. “He is not very happy with 
me either. We must try not to sink beneath our 
anguish, Harry, but battle on.” 

Harry grinned. 

“He wanted me to tell the Wizarding community that 
the Ministry’s doing a wonderful job.” 

Dumbledore smiled. 

“It was Fudge’s idea originally, you know. During his 
last days in office, when he was trying desperately to 
cling to his post, he sought a meeting with you, 
hoping that you would give him your support — ” 

“After everything Fudge did last year?” said Harry 
angrily. “After Umbridge?” 

“I told Cornelius there was no chance of it, but the 
idea did not die when he left office. Within hours of 
Scrimgeour’s appointment we met and he demanded 
that I arrange a meeting with you — ” 

“So that’s why you argued!” Harry blurted out. “It was 
in the Daily Prophet” 

“The Prophet is bound to report the truth 
occasionally,” said Dumbledore, “if only accidentally. 
Yes, that was why we argued. Well, it appears that 
Rufus found a way to corner you at last.” 

“He accused me of being ‘Dumbledore ’s man through 
and through.’ ” 

“How very rude of him.” 

“I told him I was.” 



Page | 402 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore opened his mouth to speak and then 
closed it again. Behind Harry, Fawkes the phoenix let 
out a low, soft, musical cry. To Harry’s intense 
embarrassment, he suddenly realized that 
Dumbledore ’s bright blue eyes looked rather watery, 
and stared hastily at his own knees. When 
Dumbledore spoke, however, his voice was quite 
steady. 

“I am very touched, Harry.” 

“Scrimgeour wanted to know where you go when 
you’re not at Hogwarts,” said Harry, still looking 
fixedly at his knees. 

“Yes, he is very nosy about that,” said Dumbledore, 
now sounding cheerful, and Harry thought it safe to 
look up again. “He has even attempted to have me 
followed. Amusing, really. He set Dawlish to tail me. It 
wasn’t kind. I have already been forced to jinx 
Dawlish once; I did it again with the greatest regret.” 

“So they still don’t know where you go?” asked Harry, 
hoping for more information on this intriguing 
subject, but Dumbledore merely smiled over the top 
of his half-moon spectacles. 

“No, they don’t, and the time is not quite right for you 
to know either. Now, I suggest we press on, unless 
there’s anything else — ?” 

“There is, actually, sir,” said Harry. “It’s about Malfoy 
and Snape.” 

“Professor Snape, Harry.” 

“Yes, sir. I overheard them during Professor 
Slughorn’s party ... well, I followed them, actually. ...” 



Page | 403 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore listened to Harry’s story with an 
impassive face. When Harry had finished he did not 
speak for a few moments, then said, “Thank you for 
telling me this, Harry, but I suggest that you put it 
out of your mind. I do not think that it is of great 
importance.” 

“Not of great importance?” repeated Harry 
incredulously. “Professor, did you understand — ?” 

“Yes, Harry, blessed as I am with extraordinary 
brainpower, I understood everything you told me,” 
said Dumbledore, a little sharply. “I think you might 
even consider the possibility that I understood more 
than you did. Again, I am glad that you have confided 
in me, but let me reassure you that you have not told 
me anything that causes me disquiet.” 

Harry sat in seething silence, glaring at Dumbledore. 
What was going on? Did this mean that Dumbledore 
had indeed ordered Snape to find out what Malfoy 
was doing, in which case he had already heard 
everything Harry had just told him from Snape? Or 
was he really worried by what he had heard, but 
pretending not to be? 

“So, sir,” said Harry, in what he hoped was a polite, 
calm voice, “you definitely still trust — ?” 

“I have been tolerant enough to answer that question 
already,” said Dumbledore, but he did not sound very 
tolerant anymore. “My answer has not changed.” 

“I should think not,” said a snide voice; Phineas 
Nigellus was evidently only pretending to be asleep. 
Dumbledore ignored him. 



Page | 404 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“And now, Harry, I must insist that we press on. I 
have more important things to discuss with you this 
evening.” 

Harry sat there feeling mutinous. How would it be if 
he refused to permit the change of subject, if he 
insisted upon arguing the case against Malfoy? As 
though he had read Harry’s mind, Dumbledore shook 
his head. 

“Ah, Harry, how often this happens, even between the 
best of friends! Each of us believes that what he has 
to say is much more important than anything the 
other might have to contribute!” 

“I don’t think what you’ve got to say is unimportant, 
sir,” said Harry stiffly. 

“Well, you are quite right, because it is not,” said 
Dumbledore briskly. “I have two more memories to 
show you this evening, both obtained with enormous 
difficulty, and the second of them is, I think, the most 
important I have collected.” 

Harry did not say anything to this; he still felt angry 
at the reception his confidences had received, but 
could not see what was to be gained by arguing 
further. 

“So,” said Dumbledore, in a ringing voice, “we meet 
this evening to continue the tale of Tom Riddle, whom 
we left last lesson poised on the threshold of his years 
at Hogwarts. You will remember how excited he was 
to hear that he was a wizard, that he refused my 
company on a trip to Diagon Alley, and that I, in turn, 
warned him against continued thievery when he 
arrived at school. 



Page | 405 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, the start of the school year arrived and with it 
came Tom Riddle, a quiet boy in his secondhand 
robes, who lined up with the other first years to be 
sorted. He was placed in Slytherin House almost the 
moment that the Sorting Hat touched his head,” 
continued Dumbledore, waving his blackened hand 
toward the shelf over his head where the Sorting Hat 
sat, ancient and unmoving. “How soon Riddle learned 
that the famous founder of the House could talk to 
snakes, I do not know — perhaps that very evening. 
The knowledge can only have excited him and 
increased his sense of self-importance. 

“However, if he was frightening or impressing fellow 
Slytherins with displays of Parseltongue in their 
common room, no hint of it reached the staff. He 
showed no sign of outward arrogance or aggression at 
all. As an unusually talented and very good-looking 
orphan, he naturally drew attention and sympathy 
