
“Harry, I owe you an explanation,” said Dumbledore. 
“An explanation of an old man’s mistakes. For I see 
now that what I have done, and not done, with regard 
to you, bears all the hallmarks of the failings of age. 
Youth cannot know how age thinks and feels. But old 
men are guilty if they forget what it was to be young 
... and I seem to have forgotten lately...” 

The sun was rising properly now. There was a rim of 
dazzling orange visible over the mountains and the 
sky above it was colorless and bright. The light fell 
upon Dumbledore, upon the silver of his eyebrows 
and beard, upon the lines gouged deeply into his face. 

“I guessed, fifteen years ago,” said Dumbledore, 

“when I saw the scar upon your forehead, what it 
might mean. I guessed that it might be the sign of a 
connection forged between you and Voldemort.” 



Page | 1054Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ve told me this before, Professor,” said Harry 
bluntly. He did not care about being rude. He did not 
care about anything very much anymore. 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore apologetically. “Yes, but you 
see — it is necessary to start with your scar. For it 
became apparent, shortly after you rejoined the 
magical world, that I was correct, and that your scar 
was giving you warnings when Voldemort was close to 
you, or else feeling powerful emotion.” 

“I know,” said Harry wearily. 

“And this ability of yours — to detect Voldemort’s 
presence, even when he is disguised, and to know 
what he is feeling when his emotions are roused — 
has become more and more pronounced since 
Voldemort returned to his own body and his full 
powers.” 

Harry did not bother to nod. He knew all of this 
already. 

“More recently,” said Dumbledore, “I became 
concerned that Voldemort might realize that this 
connection between you exists. Sure enough, there 
came a time when you entered so far into his mind 
and thoughts that he sensed your presence. I am 
speaking, of course, of the night when you witnessed 
the attack on Mr. Weasley.” 

“Yeah, Snape told me,” Harry muttered. 

“Professor Snape, Harry,” Dumbledore corrected him 
quietly. “But did you not wonder why it was not I who 
explained this to you? Why I did not teach you 
Occlumency? Why I had not so much as looked at 
you for months?” 



Page | 1055Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked up. He could see now that Dumbledore 
looked sad and tired. 

“Yeah,” Harry mumbled. “Yeah, I wondered.” 

“You see,” continued Dumbledore heavily. “I believed 
it could not be long before Voldemort attempted to 
force his way into your mind, to manipulate and 
misdirect your thoughts, and I was not eager to give 
him more incentives to do so. I was sure that if he 
realized that our relationship was — or had ever been 
— closer than that of headmaster and pupil, he would 
seize his chance to use you as a means to spy on me. 

I feared the uses to which he would put you, the 
possibility that he might try and possess you. Harry, I 
believe I was right to think that Voldemort would have 
made use of you in such a way. On those rare 
occasions when we had close contact, I thought I saw 
a shadow of him stir behind your eyes... I was trying, 
in distancing myself from you, to protect you. An old 
man’s mistake ...” 

Harry remembered the feeling that a dormant snake 
had risen in him, ready to strike, on those occasions 
when he and Dumbledore made eye contact. 

“Voldemort’s aim in possessing you, as he 
demonstrated tonight, would not have been my 
destruction. It would have been yours. He hoped, 
when he possessed you briefly a short while ago, that 
I would sacrifice you in the hope of killing him.” 

He sighed deeply. Harry was letting the words wash 
over him. He would have been so interested to know 
all this a few months ago, and now it was 
meaningless compared to the gaping chasm inside 
him that was the loss of Sirius, none of it mattered ... 



Page | 1056Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius told me that you felt Voldemort awake inside 
you the very night that you had the vision of Arthur 
Weasley’s attack. I knew at once that my worst fears 
were correct: Voldemort from that point had realized 
he could use you. In an attempt to arm you against 
Voldemort’s assaults on your mind, I arranged 
Occlumency lessons with Professor Snape.” 

He paused. Harry watched the sunlight, which was 
sliding slowly across the polished surface of 
Dumbledore’s desk, illuminate a silver ink pot and a 
handsome scarlet quill. Harry could tell that the 
portraits all around them were awake and listening 
raptly to Dumbledore’s explanation. He could hear 
the occasional rustle of robes, the slight clearing of a 
throat. Phineas Nigellus had still not returned... 

“Professor Snape discovered,” Dumbledore resumed, 
“that you had been dreaming about the door to the 
Department of Mysteries for months. Voldemort, of 
course, had been obsessed with the possibility of 
hearing the prophecy ever since he regained his body, 
and as he dwelled on the door, so did you, though 
you did not know what it meant. 

“And then you saw Rookwood, who worked in the 
Department of Mysteries before his arrest, telling 
Voldemort what we had known all along — that the 
prophecies held in the Ministry of Magic are heavily 
protected. Only the people to whom they refer can lift 
them from the shelves without suffering madness. In 
this case, either Voldemort himself would have to 
enter the Ministry of Magic and risk revealing himself 
at last — or else you would have to take it for him. It 
became a matter of even greater urgency that you 
should master Occlumency.” 

“But I didn’t,” muttered Harry. He said it aloud to try 
and ease the dead weight of guilt inside him; a 

Page | 1057Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




confession must surely relieve some of the terrible 
pressure squeezing his heart. “I didn’t practice, I 
didn’t bother, I could’ve stopped myself having those 
dreams, Hermione kept telling me to do it, if I had 
he’d never have been able to show me where to go, 
and — Sirius wouldn’t — Sirius wouldn’t — ” 

Something was erupting inside Harry’s head: a need 
to justify himself, to explain — 

“I tried to check if he’d really taken Sirius, I went to 
Umbridge’s office, I spoke to Kreacher in the fire, and 
he said Sirius wasn’t there, he said he’d gone!” 

“Kreacher lied,” said Dumbledore calmly. “You are not 
his master, he could lie to you without even needing 
to punish himself. Kreacher intended you to go to the 
Ministry of Magic.” 

“He — he sent me on purpose?” 

“Oh yes. Kreacher, I am afraid, has been serving more 
than one master for months.” 

“How?” said Harry blankly. “He hasn’t been out of 
Grimmauld Place for years.” 

“Kreacher seized his opportunity shortly before 
Christmas,” said Dumbledore, “when Sirius, 
apparently, shouted at him to ‘get out.’ He took Sirius 
at his word and interpreted this as an order to leave 
the house. He went to the only Black family member 
for whom he had any respect left... Black’s cousin 
Narcissa, sister of Bellatrix and wife of Lucius 
Malfoy.” 

“How do you know all this?” Harry said. His heart was 
beating very fast. He felt sick. He remembered 
worrying about Kreacher’s odd absence over 

Page | 1058Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Christmas, remembered him turning up again in the 
attic... 

“Kreacher told me last night,” said Dumbledore. “You 
see, when you gave Professor Snape that cryptic 
warning, he realized that you had had a vision of 
Sirius trapped in the bowels of the Department of 
Mysteries. He, like you, attempted to contact Sirius at 
once. I should explain that members of the Order of 
the Phoenix have more reliable methods of 
communicating than the fire in Dolores Umbridge’s 
office. Professor Snape found that Sirius was alive 
and safe in Grimmauld Place. 

“When, however, you did not return from your trip 
into the forest with Dolores Umbridge, Professor 
Snape grew worried that you still believed Sirius to be 
a captive of Lord Voldemort’s. He alerted certain 
Order members at once.” 

Dumbledore heaved a great sigh and then said, 
“Alastor Moody, Nymphadora Tonks, Kingsley 
Shacklebolt, and Remus Lupin were at headquarters 
when he made contact. All agreed to go to your aid at 
once. Professor Snape requested that Sirius remain 
behind, as he needed somebody to remain at 
headquarters to tell me what had happened, for I was 
due there at any moment. In the meantime he, 
Professor Snape, intended to search the forest for 
you. 

“But Sirius did not wish to remain behind while the 
others went to search for you. He delegated to 
Kreacher the task of telling me what had happened. 
And so it was that when I arrived in Grimmauld Place 
shortly after they had all left for the Ministry, it was 
the elf who told me — laughing fit to burst — where 
Sirius had gone.” 



Page | 1059Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“He was laughing?” said Harry in a hollow voice. 

“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore. “You see, Kreacher was 
not able to betray us totally. He is not Secret-Keeper 
for the Order, he could not give the Malfoys our 
whereabouts or tell them any of the Order’s 
confidential plans that he had been forbidden to 
reveal. He was bound by the enchantments of his 
kind, which is to say that he could not disobey a 
direct order from his master, Sirius. But he gave 
Narcissa information of the sort that is very valuable 
to Voldemort, yet must have seemed much too trivial 
for Sirius to think of banning him from repeating it.” 

“Like what?” said Harry. 

“Like the fact that the person Sirius cared most about 
in the world was you,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Like 
the fact that you were coming to regard Sirius as a 
mixture of father and brother. Voldemort knew 
already, of course, that Sirius was in the Order, that 
you knew where he was — but Kreacher’s information 
made him realize that the one person whom you 
would go to any lengths to rescue was Sirius Black.” 

Harry’s lips were cold and numb. 

“So . . . when I asked Kreacher if Sirius was there last 
night ...” 

“The Malfoys — undoubtedly on Voldemort’s 
instructions — had told him he must find a way of 
keeping Sirius out of the way once you had seen the 
vision of Sirius being tortured. Then, if you decided to 
check whether Sirius was at home or not, Kreacher 
would be able to pretend he was not. Kreacher 
injured Buckbeak the hippogriff yesterday, and at the 
moment when you made your appearance in the fire, 
Sirius was upstairs trying to tend to him.” 

Page | 1060Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There seemed to be very little air in Harry’s lungs, his 
breathing was quick and shallow. 

“And Kreacher told you all this . . . and laughed?” he 
croaked. 

“He did not wish to tell me,” said Dumbledore. “But I 
am a sufficiently accomplished Legilimens myself to 
know when I am being lied to and I — persuaded him 

— to tell me the full story, before I left for the 
Department of Mysteries.” 

“And,” whispered Harry, his hands curled in cold fists 
on his knees, “and Hermione kept telling us to be nice 
to him — ” 

“She was quite right, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “I 
warned Sirius when we adopted twelve Grimmauld 
Place as our headquarters that Kreacher must be 
treated with kindness and respect. I also told him 
that Kreacher could be dangerous to us. I do not 
think that Sirius took me very seriously, or that he 
ever saw Kreacher as a being with feelings as acute as 
a humans — ” 

“Don’t you blame — don’t you — talk — about Sirius 
like — ” Harry’s breath was constricted, he could not 
get the words out properly. But the rage that had 
subsided so briefly had flared in him again; he would 
not let Dumbledore criticize Sirius. “Kreacher ’s a lying 

— foul — he deserved — ” 

“Kreacher is what he has been made by wizards, 
Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Yes, he is to be pitied. His 
existence has been as miserable as your friend 
Dobby’s. He was forced to do Sirius’s bidding, 
because Sirius was the last of the family to which he 
was enslaved, but he felt no true loyalty to him. And 



Page | 1061Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




whatever Kreacher’s faults, it must be admitted that 
Sirius did nothing to make Kreacher’s lot easier — ” 

“DON’T TALK ABOUT SIRIUS LIKE THAT!” Harry 
yelled. 

He was on his feet again, furious, ready to fly at 
Dumbledore, who had plainly not understood Sirius 
at all, how brave he was, how much he had suffered 



“What about Snape?” Harry spat. “You’re not talking 
about him, are you? When I told him Voldemort had 
Sirius he just sneered at me as usual — ” 

“Harry, you know that Professor Snape had no choice 
but to pretend not to take you seriously in front of 
Dolores Umbridge,” said Dumbledore steadily, “but as 
I have explained, he informed the Order as soon as 
possible about what you had said. It was he who 
deduced where you had gone when you did not return 
from the forest. It was he too who gave Professor 
Umbridge fake Veritaserum when she was attempting 
to force you to tell of Sirius’s whereabouts...” 

Harry disregarded this; he felt a savage pleasure in 
blaming Snape, it seemed to be easing his own sense 
of dreadful guilt, and he wanted to hear Dumbledore 
agree with him. 

“Snape — Snape g-goaded Sirius about staying in the 
house — he made out Sirius was a coward — ” 

“Sirius was much too old and clever to have allowed 
such feeble taunts to hurt him,” said Dumbledore. 

“Snape stopped giving me Occlumency lessons!” 

Harry snarled. “He threw me out of his office!” 



Page | 1062Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I am aware of it,” said Dumbledore heavily. “I have 
already said that it was a mistake for me not to teach 
you myself, though I was sure, at the time, that 
nothing could have been more dangerous than to 
open your mind even further to Voldemort while in 
my presence — ” 

“Snape made it worse, my scar always hurt worse 
after lessons with him — ” Harry remembered Ron’s 
thoughts on the subject and plunged on. “How do you 
know he wasn’t trying to soften me up for Voldemort, 
make it easier for him to get inside my — ” 

“I trust Severus Snape,” said Dumbledore simply. 

“But I forgot — another old man’s mistake — that 
some wounds run too deep for the healing. I thought 
Professor Snape could overcome his feelings about 
your father — I was wrong.” 

“But that’s okay, is it?” yelled Harry, ignoring the 
scandalized faces and disapproving mutterings of the 
portraits covering the walls. “It’s okay for Snape to 
hate my dad, but it’s not okay for Sirius to hate 
Kreacher?” 

“Sirius did not hate Kreacher,” said Dumbledore. “He 
regarded him as a servant unworthy of much interest 
or notice. Indifference and neglect often do much 
more damage than outright dislike... The fountain we 
destroyed tonight told a lie. We wizards have 
mistreated and abused our fellows for too long, and 
we are now reaping our reward.” 

“SO SIRIUS DESERVED WHAT HE GOT, DID HE?” 
Harry yelled. 

“I did not say that, nor will you ever hear me say it,” 
Dumbledore replied quietly. “Sirius was not a cruel 
man, he was kind to house-elves in general. He had 

Page | 1063Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




no love for Kreacher, because Kreacher was a living 
reminder of the home Sirius had hated.” 

“Yeah, he did hate it!” said Harry, his voice cracking, 
turning his back on Dumbledore and walking away. 
The sun was bright inside the room now, and the eyes 
of all the portraits followed him as he walked, without 
realizing what he was doing, without seeing the office 
at all. “You made him stay shut up in that house and 
he hated it, that’s why he wanted to get out last night 



“I was trying to keep Sirius alive,” said Dumbledore 
quietly. 

“People don’t like being locked up!” Harry said 
furiously, rounding on him. “You did it to me all last 
summer — ” 

Dumbledore closed his eyes and buried his face in his 
long-fingered hands. Harry watched him, but this 
uncharacteristic sign of exhaustion, or sadness, or 
whatever it was from Dumbledore, did not soften him. 
On the contrary, he felt even angrier that Dumbledore 
was showing signs of weakness. He had no business 
being weak when Harry wanted to rage and storm at 
him. 

Dumbledore lowered his hands and surveyed Harry 
through his half-moon glasses. 

“It is time,” he said, “for me to tell you what I should 
have told you five years ago, Harry. Please sit down. I 
am going to tell you everything. I ask only a little 
patience. You will have your chance to rage at me — 
to do whatever you like — when I have finished. I will 
not stop you.” 



Page | 1064Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry glared at him for a moment, then flung himself 
back into the chair opposite Dumbledore and waited. 
Dumbledore stared for a moment at the sunlit 
grounds outside the window, then looked back at 
Harry and said, “Five years ago you arrived at 
Hogwarts, Harry, safe and whole, as I had planned 
and intended. Well — not quite whole. You had 
suffered. I knew you would when I left you on your 
aunt and uncle’s doorstep. I knew I was condemning 
you to ten dark and difficult years.” 

He paused. Harry said nothing. 

“You might ask — and with good reason — why it had 
to be so. Why could some Wizarding family not have 
taken you in? Many would have done so more than 
gladly, would have been honored and delighted to 
raise you as a son. 

“My answer is that my priority was to keep you alive. 
You were in more danger than perhaps anyone but 
myself realized. Voldemort had been vanquished 
hours before, but his supporters — and many of them 
are almost as terrible as he — were still at large, 
angry, desperate, and violent. And I had to make my 
decision too with regard to the years ahead. Did I 
believe that Voldemort was gone forever? No. I knew 
not whether it would be ten, twenty, or fifty years 
before he returned, but I was sure he would do so, 
and I was sure too, knowing him as I have done, that 
he would not rest until he killed you. 

“I knew that Voldemort ’s knowledge of magic is 
perhaps more extensive than any wizard alive. I knew 
that even my most complex and powerful protective 
spells and charms were unlikely to be invincible if he 
ever returned to full power. 



Page | 1065Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But I knew too where Voldemort was weak. And so I 
made my decision. You would be protected by an 
ancient magic of which he knows, which he despises, 
and which he has always, therefore, underestimated 
— to his cost. I am speaking, of course, of the fact 
that your mother died to save you. She gave you a 
lingering protection he never expected, a protection 
that flows in your veins to this day. I put my trust, 
therefore, in your mother’s blood. I delivered you to 
her sister, her only remaining relative.” 

“She doesn’t love me,” said Harry at once. “She 
doesn’t give a damn — ” 

“But she took you,” Dumbledore cut across him. “She 
may have taken you grudgingly, furiously, 
unwillingly, bitterly, yet still she took you, and in 
doing so, she sealed the charm I placed upon you. 

Your mother’s sacrifice made the bond of blood the 
strongest shield I could give you.” 

“I still don’t — ” 

“While you can still call home the place where your 
mother’s blood dwells, there you cannot be touched or 
harmed by Voldemort. He shed her blood, but it lives 
on in you and her sister. Her blood became your 
refuge. You need return there only once a year, but as 
long as you can still call it home, there he cannot 
hurt you. Your aunt knows this. I explained what I 
had done in the letter I left, with you, on her 
doorstep. She knows that allowing you houseroom 
may well have kept you alive for the past fifteen 
years.” 

“Wait,” said Harry. “Wait a moment.” 

He sat up straighter in his chair, staring at 
Dumbledore. 

Page | 1066Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You sent that Howler. You told her to remember — it 
was your voice — ” 

“I thought,” said Dumbledore, inclining his head 
slightly, “that she might need reminding of the pact 
she had sealed by taking you. I suspected the 
dementor attack might have awoken her to the 
dangers of having you as a surrogate son.” 

“It did,” said Harry quietly. “Well — my uncle more 
than her. He wanted to chuck me out, but after the 
Howler came she — she said I had to stay.” He stared 
at the floor for a moment, then said, “But what’s this 
got to do with ...” 

He could not say Sirius’s name. 

“Five years ago, then,” continued Dumbledore, as 
though he had not paused in his story, “you arrived 
at Hogwarts, neither as happy nor as well nourished 
as I would have liked, perhaps, yet alive and healthy. 
You were not a pampered little prince, but as normal 
a boy as I could have hoped under the circumstances. 
Thus far, my plan was working well. 

“And then ... well, you will remember the events of 
your first year at Hogwarts quite as clearly as I do. 

You rose magnificently to the challenge that faced 
you, and sooner — much sooner — than I had 
anticipated, you found yourself face-to-face with 
Voldemort. You survived again. You did more. You 
delayed his return to full power and strength. You 
fought a man’s fight. I was ... prouder of you than I 
can say. 

“Yet there was a flaw in this wonderful plan of mine,” 
said Dumbledore. “An obvious flaw that I knew, even 
then, might be the undoing of it all. And yet, knowing 
how important it was that my plan should succeed, I 

Page | 1067Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




told myself that I would not permit this flaw to min it. 

I alone could prevent this, so I alone must be strong. 
And here was my first test, as you lay in the hospital 
wing, weak from your struggle with Voldemort.” 

“I don’t understand what you’re saying,” said Harry. 

“Don’t you remember asking me, as you lay in the 
hospital wing, why Voldemort had tried to kill you 
when you were a baby?” 

Harry nodded. 

“Ought I to have told you then?” 

Harry stared into the blue eyes and said nothing, but 
his heart was racing again. 

“You do not see the flaw in the plan yet? No ... 
perhaps not. Well, as you know, I decided not to 
answer you. Eleven, I told myself, was much too 
young to know. I had never intended to tell you when 
you were eleven. The knowledge would be too much at 
such a young age. 

“I should have recognized the danger signs then. I 
should have asked myself why I did not feel more 
disturbed that you had already asked me the question 
to which I knew, one day, I must give a terrible 
answer. I should have recognized that I was too happy 
to think that I did not have to do it on that particular 
day. . . You were too young, much too young. 

“And so we entered your second year at Hogwarts. 

And once again you met challenges even grown 
wizards have never faced. Once again you acquitted 
yourself beyond my wildest dreams. You did not ask 
me again, however, why Voldemort had left that mark 
upon you. We discussed your scar, oh yes... We came 
Page | 1068Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




very, very close to the subject. Why did I not tell you 
everything? 

“Well, it seemed to me that twelve was, after all, 
hardly better than eleven to receive such information. 

I allowed you to leave my presence, bloodstained, 
exhausted but exhilarated, and if I felt a twinge of 
unease that I ought, perhaps, have told you then, it 
was swiftly silenced. You were still so young, you see, 
and I could not find it in me to spoil that night of 
triumph... 

“Do you see, Harry? Do you see the flaw in my 
brilliant plan now? I had fallen into the trap I had 
foreseen, that I had told myself I could avoid, that I 
must avoid.” 

“I don’t — ” 

“I cared about you too much,” said Dumbledore 
simply. “I cared more for your happiness than your 
knowing the truth, more for your peace of mind than 
my plan, more for your life than the lives that might 
be lost if the plan failed. In other words, I acted 
exactly as Voldemort expects we fools who love to act. 

“Is there a defense? I defy anyone who has watched 
you as I have — and I have watched you more closely 
than you can have imagined — not to want to save 
you more pain than you had already suffered. What 
did I care if numbers of nameless and faceless people 
and creatures were slaughtered in the vague future, if 
in the here and now you were alive, and well, and 
happy? I never dreamed that I would have such a 
person on my hands. 

“We entered your third year. I watched from afar as 
you struggled to repel dementors, as you found 
Sirius, learned what he was and rescued him. Was I 

Page | 1069Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to tell you then, at the moment when you had 
triumphantly snatched your godfather from the jaws 
of the Ministry? But now, at the age of thirteen, my 
excuses were running out. Young you might be, but 
you had proved you were exceptional. My conscience 
was uneasy, Harry. I knew the time must come 
soon... 

“But you came out of the maze last year, having 
watched Cedric Diggory die, having escaped death so 
narrowly yourself . . . and I did not tell you, though I 
knew, now Voldemort had returned, I must do it 
soon. And now, tonight, I know you have long been 
ready for the knowledge I have kept from you for so 
long, because you have proved that I should have 
placed the burden upon you before this. My only 
defense is this: I have watched you struggling under 
more burdens than any student who has ever passed 
through this school, and I could not bring myself to 
add another — the greatest one of all.” 

Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak. 

“I still don’t understand.” 

“Voldemort tried to kill you when you were a child 
because of a prophecy made shortly before your birth. 
He knew the prophecy had been made, though he did 
not know its full contents. He set out to kill you when 
you were still a baby, believing he was fulfilling the 
terms of the prophecy. He discovered, to his cost, that 
he was mistaken, when the curse intended to kill you 
backfired. And so, since his return to his body, and 
particularly since your extraordinary escape from him 
last year, he has been determined to hear that 
prophecy in its entirety. This is the weapon he has 
been seeking so assiduously since his return: the 
knowledge of how to destroy you.” 



Page | 1070Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The sun had risen fully now. Dumbledore’s office was 
bathed in it. The glass case in which the sword of 
Godric Gryffindor resided gleamed white and opaque, 
the fragments of the instruments Harry had thrown to 
the floor glistened like raindrops, and behind him, the 
baby Fawkes made soft chirruping noises in his nest 
of ashes. 

“The prophecy’s smashed,” Harry said blankly. “I was 
pulling Neville up those benches in the — the room 
where the archway was, and I ripped his robes and it 
fell...” 

“The thing that smashed was merely the record of the 
prophecy kept by the Department of Mysteries. But 
the prophecy was made to somebody, and that person 
has the means of recalling it perfectly.” 

“Who heard it?” asked Harry, though he thought he 
knew the answer already. 

“I did,” said Dumbledore. “On a cold, wet night 
sixteen years ago, in a room above the bar at the 
Hog’s Head Inn. I had gone there to see an applicant 
for the post of Divination teacher, though it was 
against my inclination to allow the subject of 
Divination to continue at all. The applicant, however, 
was the great-great-granddaughter of a very famous, 
very gifted Seer, and I thought it common politeness 
to meet her. I was disappointed. It seemed to me that 
she had not a trace of the gift herself. I told her, 
courteously I hope, that I did not think she would be 
suitable for the post. I turned to leave.” 

Dumbledore got to his feet and walked past Harry to 
the black cabinet that stood beside Fawkes’s perch. 

He bent down, slid back a catch, and took from inside 
it the shallow stone basin, carved with runes around 
the edges, in which Harry had seen his father 
Page | 1071Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




tormenting Snape. Dumbledore walked back to the 
desk, placed the Pensieve upon it, and raised his 
wand to his own temple. From it, he withdrew silvery, 
gossamer-fine strands of thought clinging to the 
wand, and deposited them in the basin. He sat back 
down behind his desk and watched his thoughts swirl 
and drift inside the Pensieve for a moment. Then, 
with a sigh, he raised his wand and prodded the 
silvery substance with its tip. 

A figure rose out of it, draped in shawls, her eyes 
magnified to enormous size behind her glasses, and 
she revolved slowly, her feet in the basin. But when 
Sibyll Trelawney spoke, it was not in her usual 
ethereal, mystic voice, but in the harsh, hoarse tones 
Harry had heard her use once before. 

“The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord 
approaches... Born to those who have thrice defied 
him, born as the seventh month dies . . . and the Dark 
Lord will mark him as his equal, but he will have 
power the Dark Lord knows not ... and either must die 
at the hand of the other for neither can live while the 
other survives... The one with the power to vanquish 
the Dark Lord will be born as the seventh month 
dies...” 

The slowly revolving Professor Trelawney sank back 
into the silver mass below and vanished. 

The silence within the office was absolute. Neither 
Dumbledore nor Harry nor any of the portraits made 
a sound. Even Fawkes had fallen silent. 

“Professor Dumbledore?” Harry said very quietly, for 
Dumbledore, still staring at the Pensieve, seemed 
completely lost in thought. “It ... did that mean ... 
What did that mean?” 



Page | 1072Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It meant,” said Dumbledore, “that the person who 
has the only chance of conquering Lord Voldemort for 
good was born at the end of July, nearly sixteen years 
ago. This boy would be born to parents who had 
already defied Voldemort three times.” 

Harry felt as though something was closing in upon 
him. His breathing seemed difficult again. 

“It means — me?” 

Dumbledore surveyed him for a moment through his 
glasses. 

“The odd thing is, Harry,” he said softly, “that it may 
not have meant you at all. Sibyll’s prophecy could 
have applied to two wizard boys, both born at the end 
of July that year, both of whom had parents in the 
Order of the Phoenix, both sets of parents having 
narrowly escaped Voldemort three times. One, of 
course, was you. The other was Neville Longbottom.” 

“But then . . . but then, why was it my name on the 
prophecy and not Neville’s?” 

“The official record was relabeled after Voldemort ’s 
attack on you as a child,” said Dumbledore. “It 
seemed plain to the keeper of the Hall of Prophecy 
that Voldemort could only have tried to kill you 
because he knew you to be the one to whom Sibyll 
was referring.” 

“Then — it might not be me?” said Harry. 

“I am afraid,” said Dumbledore slowly, looking as 
though every word cost him a great effort, “that there 
is no doubt that it is you.” 



Page | 1073Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But you said — Neville was born at the end of July 
too — and his mum and dad — ” 

“You are forgetting the next part of the prophecy, the 
final identifying feature of the boy who could 
vanquish Voldemort... Voldemort himself would ‘mark 
him as his equal.’ And so he did, Harry. He chose 
you, not Neville. He gave you the scar that has proved 
both blessing and curse.” 

“But he might have chosen wrong!” said Harry. “He 
might have marked the wrong person!” 

“He chose the boy he thought most likely to be a 
danger to him,” said Dumbledore. “And notice this, 
Harry. He chose, not the pureblood (which, according 
to his creed, is the only kind of wizard worth being or 
knowing), but the half-blood, like himself. He saw 
himself in you before he had ever seen you, and in 
marking you with that scar, he did not kill you, as he 
intended, but gave you powers, and a future, which 
have fitted you to escape him not once, but four times 
so far — something that neither your parents, nor 
Neville’s parents, ever achieved.” 

“Why did he do it, then?” said Harry, who felt numb 
and cold. “Why did he try and kill me as a baby? He 
should have waited to see whether Neville or I looked 
more dangerous when we were older and tried to kill 
whoever it was then — ” 

“That might, indeed, have been the more practical 
course,” said Dumbledore, “except that Voldemort’s 
information about the prophecy was incomplete. The 
Hog’s Head Inn, which Sibyll chose for its cheapness, 
has long attracted, shall we say, a more interesting 
clientele than the Three Broomsticks. As you and 
your friends found out to your cost, and I to mine 
that night, it is a place where it is never safe to 
Page | 1074Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




assume you are not being overheard. Of course, I had 
not dreamed, when I set out to meet Sibyll Trelawney, 
that I would hear anything worth overhearing. My — 
our — one stroke of good fortune was that the 
eavesdropper was detected only a short way into the 
prophecy and thrown from the building.” 

“So he only heard ... ?” 

“He heard only the first part, the part foretelling the 
birth of a boy in July to parents who had thrice defied 
Voldemort. Consequently, he could not warn his 
master that to attack you would be to risk 
transferring power to you — again marking you as his 
equal. So Voldemort never knew that there might be 
danger in attacking you, that it might be wise to wait 
or to learn more. He did not know that you would 
have ‘power the Dark Lord knows not’ — ” 

“But I don’t!” said Harry in a strangled voice. “I 
haven’t any powers he hasn’t got, I couldn’t fight the 
way he did tonight, I can’t possess people or — or kill 
them — ” 

“There is a room in the Department of Mysteries,” 
interrupted Dumbledore, “that is kept locked at all 
times. It contains a force that is at once more 
wonderful and more terrible than death, than human 
intelligence, than forces of nature. It is also, perhaps, 
the most mysterious of the many subjects for study 
that reside there. It is the power held within that 
room that you possess in such quantities and which 
Voldemort has not at all. That power took you to save 
Sirius tonight. That power also saved you from 
possession by Voldemort, because he could not bear 
to reside in a body so full of the force he detests. In 
the end, it mattered not that you could not close your 
mind. It was your heart that saved you.” 



Page | 1075Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry closed his eyes. If he had not gone to save 
Sirius, Sirius would not have died... More to stave off 
the moment when he would have to think of Sirius 
again, Harry asked, without caring much about the 
answer, “The end of the prophecy ... it was something 
about ... ‘neither can live...’ ” 

“ ‘... while the other survives,’ ” said Dumbledore. 

“So,” said Harry, dredging up the words from what felt 
