“Where’s my Dudders?” roared Aunt Marge. “Where’s 
my neffy-poo?” 

Dudley came waddling down the hall, his blond hair 
plastered flat to his fat head, a bow tie just visible 
under his many chins. Aunt Marge thrust the 
suitcase into Harry’s stomach, knocking the wind out 
of him, seized Dudley in a tight one-armed hug, and 
planted a large kiss on his cheek. 

Harry knew perfectly well that Dudley only put up 
with Aunt Marge’s hugs because he was well paid for 
it, and sure enough, when they broke apart, Dudley 
had a crisp twenty-pound note clutched in his fat fist. 



Page | 24 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Petunia!” shouted Aunt Marge, striding past Harry as 
though he was a hat stand. Aunt Marge and Aunt 
Petunia kissed, or rather, Aunt Marge bumped her 
large jaw against Aunt Petunia’s bony cheekbone. 

Uncle Vernon now came in, smiling jovially as he shut 
the door. 

“Tea, Marge?” he said. “And what will Ripper take?” 

“Ripper can have some tea out of my saucer,” said 
Aunt Marge as they all proceeded into the kitchen, 
leaving Harry alone in the hall with the suitcase. But 
Harry wasn’t complaining; any excuse not to be with 
Aunt Marge was fine by him, so he began to heave the 
case upstairs into the spare bedroom, taking as long 
as he could. 

By the time he got back to the kitchen, Aunt Marge 
had been supplied with tea and fruitcake, and Ripper 
was lapping noisily in the corner. Harry saw Aunt 
Petunia wince slightly as specks of tea and drool 
flecked her clean floor. Aunt Petunia hated animals. 

“Who’s looking after the other dogs, Marge?” Uncle 
Vernon asked. 

“Oh, I’ve got Colonel Fubster managing them,” 
boomed Aunt Marge. “He’s retired now, good for him 
to have something to do. But I couldn’t leave poor old 
Ripper. He pines if he’s away from me.” 

Ripper began to growl again as Harry sat down. This 
directed Aunt Marge’s attention to Harry for the first 
time. 

“So!” she barked. “Still here, are you?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. 

Page | 25 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t you say ‘yes’ in that ungrateful tone,” Aunt 
Marge growled. “It’s damn good of Vernon and 
Petunia to keep you. Wouldn’t have done it myself. 
You’d have gone straight to an orphanage if you’d 
been dumped on my doorstep.” 

Harry was bursting to say that he’d rather live in an 
orphanage than with the Dursleys, but the thought of 
the Hogsmeade form stopped him. He forced his face 
into a painful smile. 

“Don’t you smirk at me!” boomed Aunt Marge. “I can 
see you haven’t improved since I last saw you. I hoped 
school would knock some manners into you.” She 
took a large gulp of tea, wiped her mustache, and 
said, “Where is it that you send him, again, Vernon?” 

“St. Brutus’s,” said Uncle Vernon promptly. “It’s a 
first-rate institution for hopeless cases.” 

“I see,” said Aunt Marge. “Do they use the cane at St. 
Brutus’s, boy?” she barked across the table. 

“Er — ” 



Uncle Vernon nodded curtly behind Aunt Marge’s 
back. 

“Yes,” said Harry. Then, feeling he might as well do 
the thing properly, he added, “all the time.” 

“Excellent,” said Aunt Marge. “I won’t have this 
namby-pamby, wishy-washy nonsense about not 
hitting people who deserve it. A good thrashing is 
what’s needed in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred. 
Have you been beaten often?” 

“Oh, yeah,” said Harry, “loads of times.” 



Page | 26 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Aunt Marge narrowed her eyes. 



“I still don’t like your tone, boy,” she said. “If you can 
speak of your beatings in that casual way, they 
clearly aren’t hitting you hard enough. Petunia, I’d 
write if I were you. Make it clear that you approve the 
use of extreme force in this boy’s case.” 

Perhaps Uncle Vernon was worried that Harry might 
forget their bargain; in any case, he changed the 
subject abruptly. 

“Heard the news this morning, Marge? What about 
that escaped prisoner, eh?” 

As Aunt Marge started to make herself at home, Harry 
caught himself thinking almost longingly of life at 
number four without her. Uncle Vernon and Aunt 
Petunia usually encouraged Harry to stay out of their 
way, which Harry was only too happy to do. Aunt 
Marge, on the other hand, wanted Harry under her 
eye at all times, so that she could boom out 
suggestions for his improvement. She delighted in 
comparing Harry with Dudley, and took huge 
pleasure in buying Dudley expensive presents while 
glaring at Harry, as though daring him to ask why he 
hadn’t got a present too. She also kept throwing out 
dark hints about what made Harry such an 
unsatisfactory person. 

“You mustn’t blame yourself for the way the boy’s 
turned out, Vernon,” she said over lunch on the third 
day. “If there’s something rotten on the inside, there’s 
nothing anyone can do about it.” 

Harry tried to concentrate on his food, but his hands 
shook and his face was starting to burn with anger. 
Remember the form, he told himself. Think about 
Hogsmeade. Don’t say anything. Don’t rise — 

Page | 27 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Aunt Marge reached for her glass of wine. 



“It’s one of the basic rules of breeding,” she said. “You 
see it all the time with dogs. If there’s something 
wrong with the bitch, there’ll be something wrong 
with the pup — ” 

At that moment, the wineglass Aunt Marge was 
holding exploded in her hand. Shards of glass flew in 
every direction and Aunt Marge sputtered and 
blinked, her great ruddy face dripping. 

“Marge!” squealed Aunt Petunia. “Marge, are you all 
right?” 

“Not to worry,” grunted Aunt Marge, mopping her face 
with her napkin. “Must have squeezed it too hard. Did 
the same thing at Colonel Fubster’s the other day. No 
need to fuss, Petunia, I have a very firm grip ...” 

But Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon were both 
looking at Harry suspiciously, so he decided he’d 
better skip dessert and escape from the table as soon 
as he could. 

Outside in the hall, he leaned against the wall, 
breathing deeply. It had been a long time since he’d 
lost control and made something explode. He couldn’t 
afford to let it happen again. The Hogsmeade form 
wasn’t the only thing at stake — if he carried on like 
that, he’d be in trouble with the Ministry of Magic. 

Harry was still an underage wizard, and he was 
forbidden by wizard law to do magic outside school. 
His record wasn’t exactly clean either. Only last 
summer he’d gotten an official warning that had 
stated quite clearly that if the Ministry got wind of 
any more magic in Privet Drive, Harry would face 
expulsion from Hogwarts. 

Page | 28 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He heard the Dursleys leaving the table and hurried 
upstairs out of the way. 

Harry got through the next three days by forcing 
himself to think about his Handbook of Do-It-Yourself 
Broomcare whenever Aunt Marge started on him. This 
worked quite well, though it seemed to give him a 
glazed look, because Aunt Marge started voicing the 
opinion that he was mentally subnormal. 

At last, at long last, the final evening of Marge’s stay 
arrived. Aunt Petunia cooked a fancy dinner and 
Uncle Vernon uncorked several bottles of wine. They 
got all the way through the soup and the salmon 
without a single mention of Harry’s faults; during the 
lemon meringue pie, Uncle Vernon bored them all 
with a long talk about Grunnings, his drill-making 
company; then Aunt Petunia made coffee and Uncle 
Vernon brought out a bottle of brandy. 

“Can I tempt you, Marge?” 

Aunt Marge had already had quite a lot of wine. Her 
huge face was very red. 

“Just a small one, then,” she chuckled. “A bit more 
than that ... and a bit more ... that’s the ticket.” 

Dudley was eating his fourth slice of pie. Aunt 
Petunia was sipping coffee with her little finger 
sticking out. Harry really wanted to disappear into his 
bedroom, but he met Uncle Vernon’s angry little eyes 
and knew he would have to sit it out. 

“Aah,” said Aunt Marge, smacking her lips and 
putting the empty brandy glass back down. “Excellent 
nosh, Petunia. It’s normally just a fry-up for me of an 
evening, with twelve dogs to look after. ...” She 
burped richly and patted her great tweed stomach. 
Page | 29 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Pardon me. But I do like to see a healthy-sized boy,” 
she went on, winking at Dudley. “You’ll be a proper- 
sized man, Dudders, like your father. Yes, I’ll have a 
spot more brandy, Vernon. ...” 

“Now, this one here — ” 

She jerked her head at Harry, who felt his stomach 
clench. The Handbook, he thought quickly. 

“This one’s got a mean, runty look about him. You get 
that with dogs. I had Colonel Fubster drown one last 
year. Ratty little thing it was. Weak. Underbred.” 

Harry was trying to remember page twelve of his 
book: A Charm to Cure Reluctant Reversers. 

“It all comes down to blood, as I was saying the other 
day. Bad blood will out. Now, I’m saying nothing 
against your family, Petunia” — she patted Aunt 
Petunia’s bony hand with her shovellike one — “but 
your sister was a bad egg. They turn up in the best 
families. Then she ran off with a wastrel and here’s 
the result right in front of us.” 

Harry was staring at his plate, a funny ringing in his 
ears. Grasp your broom firmly by the tail, he thought. 
But he couldn’t remember what came next. Aunt 
Marge’s voice seemed to be boring into him like one of 
Uncle Vernon’s drills. 

“This Potter,” said Aunt Marge loudly, seizing the 
brandy bottle and splashing more into her glass and 
over the tablecloth, “you never told me what he did?” 

Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia were looking 
extremely tense. Dudley had even looked up from his 
pie to gape at his parents. 



Page | 30 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“He — didn’t work,” said Uncle Vernon, with half a 
glance at Harry. “Unemployed.” 



“As I expected!” said Aunt Marge, taking a huge swig 
of brandy and wiping her chin on her sleeve. “A no- 
account, good-for-nothing, lazy scrounger who — ” 

“He was not,” said Harry suddenly. The table went 
very quiet. Harry was shaking all over. He had never 
felt so angry in his life. 

“MORE BRANDY!” yelled Uncle Vernon, who had gone 
very white. He emptied the bottle into Aunt Marge’s 
glass. “You, boy,” he snarled at Harry. “Go to bed, go 
on — ” 



“No, Vernon,” hiccuped Aunt Marge, holding up a 
hand, her tiny bloodshot eyes fixed on Harry’s. “Go 
on, boy, go on. Proud of your parents, are you? They 
go and get themselves killed in a car crash (drunk, I 
expect) — ” 

“They didn’t die in a car crash!” said Harry, who 
found himself on his feet. 

“They died in a car crash, you nasty little liar, and left 
you to be a burden on their decent, hardworking 
relatives!” screamed Aunt Marge, swelling with fury. 
“You are an insolent, ungrateful little — ” 

But Aunt Marge suddenly stopped speaking. For a 
moment, it looked as though words had failed her. 

She seemed to be swelling with inexpressible anger — 
but the swelling didn’t stop. Her great red face started 
to expand, her tiny eyes bulged, and her mouth 
stretched too tightly for speech — next second, 
several buttons had just burst from her tweed jacket 
and pinged off the walls — she was inflating like a 
monstrous balloon, her stomach bursting free of her 
Page | 31 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




tweed waistband, each of her fingers blowing up like a 
salami — 

“MARGE!” yelled Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia 
together as Aunt Marge’s whole body began to rise off 
her chair toward the ceiling. She was entirely round, 
now, like a vast life buoy with piggy eyes, and her 
hands and feet stuck out weirdly as she drifted up 
into the air, making apoplectic popping noises. Ripper 
came skidding into the room, barking madly. 

“NOOOOOOO!” 

Uncle Vernon seized one of Marge’s feet and tried to 
pull her down again, but was almost lifted from the 
floor himself. A second later, Ripper leapt forward and 
sank his teeth into Uncle Vernon’s leg. 

Harry tore from the dining room before anyone could 
stop him, heading for the cupboard under the stairs. 
The cupboard door burst magically open as he 
reached it. In seconds, he had heaved his trunk to the 
front door. He sprinted upstairs and threw himself 
under the bed, wrenching up the loose floorboard, 
and grabbed the pillowcase full of his books and 
birthday presents. He wriggled out, seized Hedwig’s 
empty cage, and dashed back downstairs to his 
trunk, just as Uncle Vernon burst out of the dining 
room, his trouser leg in bloody tatters. 

“COME BACK IN HERE!” he bellowed. “COME BACK 
AND PUT HER RIGHT!” 

But a reckless rage had come over Harry. He kicked 
his trunk open, pulled out his wand, and pointed it at 
Uncle Vernon. 

“She deserved it,” Harry said, breathing very fast. 

“She deserved what she got. You keep away from me.” 

Page | 32 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He fumbled behind him for the latch on the door. 



“I’m going,” Harry said. “I’ve had enough.” 

And in the next moment, he was out in the dark, 
quiet street, heaving his heavy trunk behind him, 
Hedwig’s cage under his arm. 



Page | 33 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




3 




THE KNIGHT BUS 

Harry was several streets away before he collapsed 
onto a low wall in Magnolia Crescent, panting from 
the effort of dragging his trunk. He sat quite still, 
anger still surging through him, listening to the 
frantic thumping of his heart. 

But after ten minutes alone in the dark street, a new 
emotion overtook him: panic. Whichever way he 
looked at it, he had never been in a worse fix. He was 
stranded, quite alone, in the dark Muggle world, with 
absolutely nowhere to go. And the worst of it was, he 
had just done serious magic, which meant that he 
was almost certainly expelled from Hogwarts. He had 
broken the Decree for the Restriction of Underage 
Wizardry so badly, he was surprised Ministry of Magic 
representatives weren’t swooping down on him where 
he sat. 

Harry shivered and looked up and down Magnolia 
Crescent. What was going to happen to him? Would 
he be arrested, or would he simply be outlawed from 
the wizarding world? He thought of Ron and 

Page | 34 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Hermione, and his heart sank even lower. Harry was 
sure that, criminal or not, Ron and Hermione would 
want to help him now, but they were both abroad, 
and with Hedwig gone, he had no means of contacting 
them. 

He didn’t have any Muggle money, either. There was a 
little wizard gold in the money bag at the bottom of 
his trunk, but the rest of the fortune his parents had 
left him was stored in a vault at Gringotts Wizarding 
Bank in London. He’d never be able to drag his trunk 
all the way to London. Unless ... 

He looked down at his wand, which he was still 
clutching in his hand. If he was already expelled (his 
heart was now thumping painfully fast), a bit more 
magic couldn’t hurt. He had the Invisibility Cloak he 
had inherited from his father — what if he bewitched 
the trunk to make it feather-light, tied it to his 
broomstick, covered himself in the cloak, and flew to 
London? Then he could get the rest of his money out 
of his vault and ... begin his life as an outcast. It was 
a horrible prospect, but he couldn’t sit on this wall 
forever, or he’d find himself trying to explain to 
Muggle police why he was out in the dead of night 
with a trunkful of spellbooks and a broomstick. 

Harry opened his trunk again and pushed the 
contents aside, looking for the Invisibility Cloak — 
but before he had found it, he straightened up 
suddenly, looking around him once more. 

A funny prickling on the back of his neck had made 
Harry feel he was being watched, but the street 
appeared to be deserted, and no lights shone from 
any of the large square houses. 

He bent over his trunk again, but almost immediately 
stood up once more, his hand clenched on his wand. 

Page | 35 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He had sensed rather than heard it: someone or 
something was standing in the narrow gap between 
the garage and the fence behind him. Harry squinted 
at the black alleyway. If only it would move, then he’d 
know whether it was just a stray cat or — something 
else. 

“Lumos,” Harry muttered, and a light appeared at the 
end of his wand, almost dazzling him. He held it high 
over his head, and the pebble-dashed walls of number 
two suddenly sparkled; the garage door gleamed, and 
between them Harry saw, quite distinctly, the hulking 
outline of something very big, with wide, gleaming 
eyes. 

Harry stepped backward. His legs hit his trunk and 
he tripped. His wand flew out of his hand as he flung 
out an arm to break his fall, and he landed, hard, in 
the gutter — 

There was a deafening BANG, and Harry threw up his 
hands to shield his eyes against a sudden blinding 
light — 

With a yell, he rolled back onto the pavement, just in 
time. A second later, a gigantic pair of wheels and 
headlights screeched to a halt exactly where Harry 
had just been lying. They belonged, as Harry saw 
when he raised his head, to a triple-decker, violently 
purple bus, which had appeared out of thin air. Gold 
lettering over the windshield spelled The Knight Bus. 

For a split second, Harry wondered if he had been 
knocked silly by his fall. Then a conductor in a purple 
uniform leapt out of the bus and began to speak 
loudly to the night. 

“Welcome to the Knight Bus, emergency transport for 
the stranded witch or wizard. Just stick out your 

Page | 36 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




wand hand, step on board, and we can take you 
anywhere you want to go. My name is Stan Shunpike, 
and I will be your conductor this eve — ” 

The conductor stopped abruptly. He had just caught 
sight of Harry, who was still sitting on the ground. 
Harry snatched up his wand again and scrambled to 
his feet. Close up, he saw that Stan Shunpike was 
only a few years older than he was, eighteen or 
nineteen at most, with large, protruding ears and 
quite a few pimples. 

“What were you doin’ down there?” said Stan, 
dropping his professional manner. 

“Fell over,” said Harry. 

“ ’Choo fall over for?” sniggered Stan. 

“I didn’t do it on purpose,” said Harry, annoyed. One 
of the knees in his jeans was torn, and the hand he 
had thrown out to break his fall was bleeding. He 
suddenly remembered why he had fallen over and 
turned around quickly to stare at the alleyway 
between the garage and fence. The Knight Bus’s 
headlamps were flooding it with light, and it was 
empty. 

“ ’Choo lookin’ at?” said Stan. 

“There was a big black thing,” said Harry, pointing 
uncertainly into the gap. “Like a dog ... but massive 



He looked around at Stan, whose mouth was slightly 
open. With a feeling of unease, Harry saw Stan’s eyes 
move to the scar on Harry’s forehead. 

“Woss that on your ’ead?” said Stan abruptly. 

Page | 37 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Nothing,” said Harry quickly, flattening his hair over 
his scar. If the Ministry of Magic was looking for him, 
he didn’t want to make it too easy for them. 

“Woss your name?” Stan persisted. 

“Neville Longbottom,” said Harry, saying the first 
name that came into his head. “So — so this bus,” he 
went on quickly, hoping to distract Stan, “did you say 
it goes anywhere?” 

“Yep,” said Stan proudly, “anywhere you like, long’s 
it’s on land. Can’t do nuffink underwater. ’Ere,” he 
said, looking suspicious again, “you did flag us down, 
dincha? Stuck out your wand ’and, dincha?” 

“Yes,” said Harry quickly. “Listen, how much would it 
be to get to London?” 

“Eleven Sickles,” said Stan, “but for firteen you get ’ot 
chocolate, and for fifteen you get an ’ot water bottle 
an’ a toofbrush in the color of your choice.” 

Harry rummaged once more in his trunk, extracted 
his money bag, and shoved some gold into Stan’s 
hand. He and Stan then lifted his trunk, with 
Hedwig’s cage balanced on top, up the steps of the 
bus. 

There were no seats; instead, half a dozen brass 
bedsteads stood beside the curtained windows. 
Candles were burning in brackets beside each bed, 
illuminating the wood-paneled walls. A tiny wizard in 
a nightcap at the rear of the bus muttered, “Not now, 
thanks, I’m pickling some slugs” and rolled over in his 
sleep. 

“You ’ave this one,” Stan whispered, shoving Harry’s 
trunk under the bed right behind the driver, who was 

Page | 38 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




sitting in an armchair in front of the steering wheel. 
“This is our driver, Ernie Prang. This is Neville 
Longbottom, Ern.” 

Ernie Prang, an elderly wizard wearing very thick 
glasses, nodded to Harry, who nervously flattened his 
bangs again and sat down on his bed. 

“Take ’er away, Ern,” said Stan, sitting down in the 
armchair next to Ernie’s. 

There was another tremendous BANG, and the next 
moment Harry found himself flat on his bed, thrown 
backward by the speed of the Knight Bus. Pulling 
himself up, Harry stared out of the dark window and 
saw that they were now bowling along a completely 
different street. Stan was watching Harry’s stunned 
face with great enjoyment. 

“This is where we was before you flagged us down,” he 
said. “Where are we, Ern? Somewhere in Wales?” 

“Ar,” said Ernie. 

“How come the Muggles don’t hear the bus?” said 
Harry. 

“Them!” said Stan contemptuously. “Don’ listen 
properly, do they? Don’ look properly either. Never 
notice nuffink, they don’.” 

“Best go wake up Madam Marsh, Stan,” said Ern. 
“Well be in Abergavenny in a minute.” 

Stan passed Harry’s bed and disappeared up a 
narrow wooden staircase. Harry was still looking out 
of the window, feeling increasingly nervous. Ernie 
didn’t seem to have mastered the use of a steering 
wheel. The Knight Bus kept mounting the pavement, 
Page | 39 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




but it didn’t hit anything; lines of lampposts, 
mailboxes, and trash cans jumped out of its way as it 
approached and back into position once it had 
passed. 

Stan came back downstairs, followed by a faintly 
green witch wrapped in a traveling cloak. 

“ ’Ere you go, Madam Marsh,” said Stan happily as 
Ern stamped on the brake and the beds slid a foot or 
so toward the front of the bus. Madam Marsh 
clamped a handkerchief to her mouth and tottered 
down the steps. Stan threw her bag out after her and 
rammed the doors shut; there was another loud 
BANG, and they were thundering down a narrow 
country lane, trees leaping out of the way. 

Harry wouldn’t have been able to sleep even if he had 
been traveling on a bus that didn’t keep banging 
loudly and jumping a hundred miles at a time. His 
stomach churned as he fell back to wondering what 
was going to happen to him, and whether the 
Dursleys had managed to get Aunt Marge off the 
ceiling yet. 

Stan had unfurled a copy of the Daily Prophet and 
was now reading with his tongue between his teeth. A 
large photograph of a sunken-faced man with long, 
matted hair blinked slowly at Harry from the front 
page. He looked strangely familiar. 

“That man!” Harry said, forgetting his troubles for a 
moment. “He was on the Muggle news!” 

Stanley turned to the front page and chuckled. 

“Sirius Black,” he said, nodding. “ ’Course ’e was on 
the Muggle news, Neville, where you been?” 



Page | 40 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He gave a superior sort of chuckle at the blank look 
on Harry’s face, removed the front page, and handed 
it to Harry. 

“You oughta read the papers more, Neville.” 

Harry held the paper up to the candlelight and read: 
BLACK STILL AT LARGE 

Sirius Black, possibly the most infamous prisoner 
ever to be held in Azkaban fortress, is still eluding 
capture, the Ministry of Magic confirmed today. 

“We are doing all we can to recapture Black,” said the 
Minister of Magic, Cornelius Fudge, this morning, 

“and we beg the magical community to remain calm.” 

Fudge has been criticized by some members of the 
International Federation of Warlocks for informing the 
Muggle Prime Minister of the crisis. 

“Well, really, I had to, don’t you know,” said an 
irritable Fudge. “Black is mad. He’s a danger to 
anyone who crosses him, magic or Muggle. I have the 
Prime Minister’s assurance that he will not breathe a 
word of Black’s true identity to anyone. And let’s face 
it — who’d believe him if he did?” 

While Muggles have been told that Black is carrying a 
gun (a kind of metal wand that Muggles use to kill 
each other), the magical community lives in fear of a 
massacre like that of twelve years ago, when Black 
murdered thirteen people with a single curse. 



Harry looked into the shadowed eyes of Sirius Black, 
the only part of the sunken face that seemed alive. 

Page | 41 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had never met a vampire, but he had seen 
pictures of them in his Defense Against the Dark Arts 
classes, and Black, with his waxy white skin, looked 
just like one. 

“Scary-lookin’ fing, inee?” said Stan, who had been 
watching Harry read. 

“He murdered thirteen people?” said Harry, handing 
the page back to Stan, “with one curse?” 

“Yep,” said Stan, “in front of witnesses an’ all. Broad 
daylight. Big trouble it caused, dinnit, Ern?” 

“Ar,” said Ern darkly. 

Stan swiveled in his armchair, his hands on the back, 
the better to look at Harry. 

“Black woz a big supporter of You-Know-’Oo,” he said. 

“What, Voldemort?” said Harry, without thinking. 

Even Stan’s pimples went white; Ern jerked the 
steering wheel so hard that a whole farmhouse had to 
jump aside to avoid the bus. 

“You outta your tree?” yelped Stan. “ ’Choo say ’is 
name for?” 

“Sorry,” said Harry hastily. “Sorry, I — I forgot — ” 

“Forgot!” said Stan weakly. “Blimey, my ’eart’s goin’ 
that fast...” 

“So — so Black was a supporter of You-Know-Who?” 
Harry prompted apologetically. 



Page | 42 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah,” said Stan, still rubbing his chest. “Yeah, 
that’s right. Very close to You-Know-’Oo, they say. 
Anyway, when little ’Arry Potter got the better of You- 
Know-’Oo — ” 

Harry nervously flattened his bangs down again. 

“ — all You-Know-’Oo’s supporters was tracked down, 
wasn’t they, Ern? Most of ’em knew it was all over, 
wiv You-Know-’Oo gone, and they came quiet. But not 
Sirius Black. I ’eard he thought ’e’d be second-in- 
command once You-Know-’Oo ’ad taken over. 

“Anyway, they cornered Black in the middle of a street 
full of Muggles an’ Black took out ’is wand and ’e 
blasted ’alf the street apart, an’ a wizard got it, an’ so 
did a dozen Muggles what got in the way. ’Orrible, eh? 
An’ you know what Black did then?” Stan continued 
in a dramatic whisper. 

“What?” said Harry. 

“Laughed,” said Stan. “Jus’ stood there an’ laughed. 
An’ when reinforcements from the Ministry of Magic 
got there, ’e went wiv ’em quiet as anyfink, still 
laughing ’is ’ead off. ’Cos ’e’s mad, inee, Ern? Inee 
mad?” 

“If he weren’t when he went to Azkaban, he will be 
now,” said Ern in his slow voice. “I’d blow meself up 
before I set foot in that place. Serves him right, mind 
you ... after what he did. ...” 

“They ’ad a job coverin’ it up, din’ they, Ern?” Stan 
said. “ ’Ole street blown up an’ all them Muggles 
dead. What was it they said ’ad ’appened, Ern?” 

“Gas explosion,” grunted Ernie. 



Page | 43 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“An’ now ’e’s out,” said Stan, examining the 
newspaper picture of Black’s gaunt face again. “Never 
been a breakout from Azkaban before, ’as there, Ern? 
Beats me ’ow ’e did it. Frightenin’, eh? Mind, I don’t 
fancy ’is chances against them Azkaban guards, eh, 
Ern?” 

Ernie suddenly shivered. 

“Talk about summat else, Stan, there’s a good lad. 
Them Azkaban guards give me the collywobbles.” 

Stan put the paper away reluctantly, and Harry 
leaned against the window of the Knight Bus, feeling 
worse than ever. He couldn’t help imagining what 
Stan might be telling his passengers in a few nights’ 
time. 

“ ’Ear about that ’Arry Potter? Blew up ’is aunt! We 
’ad ’im ’ere on the Knight Bus, di’n’t we, Ern? ’E was 
tryin’ to run for it. ...” 

He, Harry, had broken wizard law just like Sirius 
Black. Was inflating Aunt Marge bad enough to land 
him in Azkaban? Harry didn’t know anything about 
the wizard prison, though everyone he’d ever heard 
speak of it did so in the same fearful tone. Hagrid, the 
Hogwarts gamekeeper, had spent two months there 
only last year. Harry wouldn’t soon forget the look of 
terror on Hagrid ’s face when he had been told where 
he was going, and Hagrid was one of the bravest 
people Harry knew. 

The Knight Bus rolled through the darkness, 
scattering bushes and wastebaskets, telephone 
booths and trees, and Harry lay, restless and 
miserable, on his feather bed. After a while, Stan 
remembered that Harry had paid for hot chocolate, 
but poured it all over Harry’s pillow when the bus 
Page | 44 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




moved abruptly from Anglesey to Aberdeen. One by 
one, wizards and witches in dressing gowns and 
slippers descended from the upper floors to leave the 
bus. They all looked very pleased to go. 

Finally, Harry was the only passenger left. 

“Right then, Neville,” said Stan, clapping his hands, 
“whereabouts in London?” 

“Diagon Alley,” said Harry. 

“Righto,” said Stan. “ ’Old tight, then ...” 

BANG! 

They were thundering along Charing Cross Road. 
Harry sat up and watched buildings and benches 
squeezing themselves out of the Knight Bus’s way. 

The sky was getting a little lighter. He would lie low 
for a couple of hours, go to Gringotts the moment it 
opened, then set off — where, he didn’t know. 

Ern slammed on the brakes and the Knight Bus 
skidded to a halt in front of a small and shabby- 
looking pub, the Leaky Cauldron, behind which lay 
the magical entrance to Diagon Alley. 

“Thanks,” Harry said to Ern. 

He jumped down the steps and helped Stan lower his 
trunk and Hedwig’s cage onto the pavement. 

“Well,” said Harry. “ ’Bye then!” 

But Stan wasn’t paying attention. Still standing in the 
doorway to the bus, he was goggling at the shadowy 
entrance to the Leaky Cauldron. 



Page | 45 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ There you are, Harry,” said a voice. 



Before Harry could turn, he felt a hand on his 
shoulder. At the same time, Stan shouted, “Blimey! 
Ern, come ’ere! Come ’ere!” 

Harry looked up at the owner of the hand on his 
shoulder and felt a bucketful of ice cascade into his 
stomach — he had walked right into Cornelius Fudge, 
the Minister of Magic himself. 

Stan leapt onto the pavement beside them. 

“What didja call Neville, Minister?” he said excitedly. 

Fudge, a portly little man in a long, pinstriped cloak, 
looked cold and exhausted. 

“Neville?” he repeated, frowning. “This is Harry 
Potter.” 

“I knew it!” Stan shouted gleefully. “Ern! Ern! Guess 
’oo Neville is, Ern! ’E’s ’Arry Potter! I can see ’is scar!” 

“Yes,” said Fudge testily, “well, I’m very glad the 
Knight Bus picked Harry up, but he and I need to 
step inside the Leaky Cauldron now ...” 

Fudge increased the pressure on Harry’s shoulder, 
and Harry found himself being steered inside the pub. 
A stooping figure bearing a lantern appeared through 
the door behind the bar. It was Tom, the wizened, 
toothless landlord. 

“You’ve got him, Minister!” said Tom. “Will you be 
wanting anything? Beer? Brandy?” 

“Perhaps a pot of tea,” said Fudge, who still hadn’t let 
go of Harry. 

Page | 46 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




There was a loud scraping and puffing from behind 
them, and Stan and Ern appeared, carrying Harry’s 
trunk and Hedwig’s cage and looking around 
excitedly. 

“ ’Ow come you di’n’t tell us ’oo you are, eh, Neville?” 
said Stan, beaming at Harry, while Ernie’s owlish face 
peered interestedly over Stan’s shoulder. 

“And a private parlor, please, Tom,” said Fudge 
