after all, look a little ill. This was the first time he had 
seen Malfoy close up for ages; he now saw that Malfoy 
had dark shadows under his eyes and a distinctly 
grayish tinge to his skin. 

“I’d like a word with you, Draco,” said Snape 
suddenly. 

“Oh, now, Severus,” said Slughorn, hiccuping again, 
“it’s Christmas, don’t be too hard — ” 

“I’m his Head of House, and I shall decide how hard, 
or otherwise, to be,” said Snape curtly. “Follow me, 
Draco.” 

They left, Snape leading the way, Malfoy looking 
resentful. Harry stood there for a moment, irresolute, 
then said, “I’ll be back in a bit, Luna — er — 
bathroom.” 

“All right,” she said cheerfully, and he thought he 
heard her, as he hurried off into the crowd, resume 
the subject of the Rotfang Conspiracy with Professor 
Trelawney, who seemed sincerely interested. 

It was easy, once out of the party, to pull his 
Invisibility Cloak out of his pocket and throw it over 
himself, for the corridor was quite deserted. What was 
more difficult was finding Snape and Malfoy. Harry 
ran down the corridor, the noise of his feet masked by 
the music and loud talk still issuing from Slughorn ’s 
office behind him. Perhaps Snape had taken Malfoy to 
Page | 361 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




his office in the dungeons ... or perhaps he was 
escorting him back to the Slytherin common room. ... 
Harry pressed his ear against door after door as he 
dashed down the corridor until, with a great jolt of 
excitement, he crouched down to the keyhole of the 
last classroom in the corridor and heard voices. 

"... cannot afford mistakes, Draco, because if you are 
expelled — ” 

“I didn’t have anything to do with it, all right?” 

“I hope you are telling the truth, because it was both 
clumsy and foolish. Already you are suspected of 
having a hand in it.” 

“Who suspects me?” said Malfoy angrily. “For the last 
time, I didn’t do it, okay? That Bell girl must’ve had 
an enemy no one knows about — don’t look at me like 
that! I know what you’re doing, I’m not stupid, but it 
won’t work — I can stop you!” 

There was a pause and then Snape said quietly, “Ah 
. . . Aunt Bellatrix has been teaching you Occlumency, 

I see. What thoughts are you trying to conceal from 
your master, Draco?” 

“I’m not trying to conceal anything from him, I just 
don’t want you butting in!” 

Harry pressed his ear still more closely against the 
keyhole. ... What had happened to make Malfoy speak 
to Snape like this — Snape, toward whom he had 
always shown respect, even liking? 

“So that is why you have been avoiding me this term? 
You have feared my interference? You realize that, 
had anybody else failed to come to my office when I 
had told them repeatedly to be there, Draco — ” 

Page | 362 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“So put me in detention! Report me to Dumbledore!” 
jeered Malfoy. 

There was another pause. Then Snape said, “You 
know perfectly well that I do not wish to do either of 
those things.” 

“You’d better stop telling me to come to your office 
then!” 

“Listen to me,” said Snape, his voice so low now that 
Harry had to push his ear very hard against the 
keyhole to hear. “I am trying to help you. I swore to 
your mother I would protect you. I made the 
Unbreakable Vow, Draco — ” 

“Looks like you 11 have to break it, then, because I 
don’t need your protection! It’s my job, he gave it to 
me and I’m doing it, I’ve got a plan and it’s going to 
work, it’s just taking a bit longer than I thought it 
would!” 

“What is your plan?” 

“It’s none of your business!” 

“If you tell me what you are trying to do, I can assist 
you — ” 

“I’ve got all the assistance I need, thanks, I’m not 
alone!” 

“You were certainly alone tonight, which was foolish 
in the extreme, wandering the corridors without 
lookouts or backup, these are elementary mistakes — 



“I would’ve had Crabbe and Goyle with me if you 
hadn’t put them in detention!” 

Page | 363 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Keep your voice down!” spat Snape, for Malfoy’s voice 
had risen excitedly. “If your friends Crabbe and Goyle 
intend to pass their Defense Against the Dark Arts 
O.W.L. this time around, they will need to work a 
little harder than they are doing at pres — ” 

“What does it matter?” said Malfoy. “Defense Against 
the Dark Arts — it’s all just a joke, isn’t it, an act? 
Like any of us need protecting against the Dark Arts 



“It is an act that is crucial to success, Draco!” said 
Snape. “Where do you think I would have been all 
these years, if I had not known how to act? Now listen 
to me! You are being incautious, wandering around at 
night, getting yourself caught, and if you are placing 
your reliance in assistants like Crabbe and Goyle — ” 

“They’re not the only ones, I’ve got other people on my 
side, better people!” 

“Then why not confide in me, and I can — ” 

“I know what you’re up to! You want to steal my 
glory!” 

There was another pause, then Snape said coldly, 
“You are speaking like a child. I quite understand 
that your father’s capture and imprisonment has 
upset you, but — ” 

Harry had barely a second’s warning; he heard 
Malfoy’s footsteps on the other side of the door and 
flung himself out of the way just as it burst open; 
Malfoy was striding away down the corridor, past the 
open door of Slughorn’s office, around the distant 
corner, and out of sight. 



Page | 364 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hardly daring to breathe, Harry remained crouched 
down as Snape emerged slowly from the classroom. 
His expression unfathomable, he returned to the 
party. Harry remained on the floor, hidden beneath 
the cloak, his mind racing. 



Page | 365 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






A VERY FROSTY CHRISTMAS 

“So Snape was offering to help him? He was definitely 
offering to help him?” 

“If you ask that once more,” said Harry, “I’m going to 
stick this sprout — ” 

“I’m only checking!” said Ron. They were standing 
alone at the Burrow’s kitchen sink, peeling a 
mountain of sprouts for Mrs. Weasley. Snow was 
drifting past the window in front of them. 

“Yes, Snape was offering to help himl” said Harry. “He 
said he’d promised Malfoy’s mother to protect him, 
that he’d made an Unbreakable Oath or something — 



“An Unbreakable Vow?” said Ron, looking stunned. 
“Nah, he can’t have. ... Are you sure?” 

“Yes, I’m sure,” said Harry. “Why, what does it 
mean?” 



Page | 366 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“Well, you can’t break an Unbreakable Vow. ...” 

“I’d worked that much out for myself, funnily enough. 
What happens if you break it, then?” 

“You die,” said Ron simply. “Fred and George tried to 
get me to make one when I was about five. I nearly 
did too, I was holding hands with Fred and everything 
when Dad found us. He went mental,” said Ron, with 
a reminiscent gleam in his eyes. “Only time I’ve ever 
seen Dad as angry as Mum. Fred reckons his left 
buttock has never been the same since.” 

“Yeah, well, passing over Fred’s left buttock — ” 

“I beg your pardon?” said Fred’s voice as the twins 
entered the kitchen. 

“Aaah, George, look at this. They’re using knives and 
everything. Bless them.” 

“I’ll be seventeen in two and a bit months’ time,” said 
Ron grumpily, “and then I’ll be able to do it by magic!” 

“But meanwhile,” said George, sitting down at the 
kitchen table and putting his feet up on it, “we can 
enjoy watching you demonstrate the correct use of a 
— whoops-a-daisy!” 

“You made me do that!” said Ron angrily, sucking his 
cut thumb. “You wait, when I’m seventeen — ” 

“I’m sure you’ll dazzle us all with hitherto 
unsuspected magical skills,” yawned Fred. 

“And speaking of hitherto unsuspected skills, 

Ronald,” said George, “what is this we hear from 
Ginny about you and a young lady called — unless 
our information is faulty — Lavender Brown?” 

Page | 367 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron turned a little pink, but did not look displeased 
as he turned back to the sprouts. “Mind your own 
business.” 

“What a snappy retort,” said Fred. “I really don’t know 
how you think of them. No, what we wanted to know 
was . . . how did it happen?” 

“What d’you mean?” 

“Did she have an accident or something?” 

“What?” 

“Well, how did she sustain such extensive brain 
damage? Careful, now!” 

Mrs. Weasley entered the room just in time to see Ron 
throw the sprout knife at Fred, who had turned it into 
a paper airplane with one lazy flick of his wand. 

“Ronl” she said furiously. “Don’t you ever let me see 
you throwing knives again!” 

“I won’t,” said Ron, “let you see,” he added under his 
breath, as he turned back to the sprout mountain. 

“Fred, George, I’m sorry, dears, but Remus is arriving 
tonight, so Bill will have to squeeze in with you two.” 

“No problem,” said George. 

“Then, as Charlie isn’t coming home, that just leaves 
Harry and Ron in the attic, and if Fleur shares with 
Ginny — ” 

“ — that’ll make Ginny’s Christmas — ” muttered Fred. 



Page | 368 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“ — everyone should be comfortable. Well, they’ll have 
a bed, anyway,” said Mrs. Weasley, sounding slightly 
harassed. 



“Percy definitely not showing his ugly face, then?” 
asked Fred. 

Mrs. Weasley turned away before she answered. “No, 
he’s busy, I expect, at the Ministry.” 

“Or he’s the world’s biggest prat,” said Fred, as Mrs. 
Weasley left the kitchen. “One of the two. Well, let’s 
get going, then, George.” 

“What are you two up to?” asked Ron. “Can’t you help 
us with these sprouts? You could just use your wand 
and then well be free too!” 

“No, I don’t think we can do that,” said Fred seriously. 
“It’s very character-building stuff, learning to peel 
sprouts without magic, makes you appreciate how 
difficult it is for Muggles and Squibs — ” 

“ — and if you want people to help you, Ron,” added 
George, throwing the paper airplane at him, “I 
wouldn’t chuck knives at them. Just a little hint. 
We’re off to the village, there’s a very pretty girl 
working in the paper shop who thinks my card tricks 
are something marvelous ... almost like real magic. 



“Gits,” said Ron darkly, watching Fred and George 
setting off across the snowy yard. “Would’ve only 
taken them ten seconds and then we could’ve gone 
too.” 

“I couldn’t,” said Harry. “I promised Dumbledore I 
wouldn’t wander off while I’m staying here.” 

Page | 369 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh yeah,” said Ron. He peeled a few more sprouts 
and then said, “Are you going to tell Dumbledore what 
you heard Snape and Malfoy saying to each other?” 

“Yep,” said Harry. “I’m going to tell anyone who can 
put a stop to it, and Dumbledore’s top of the list. I 
might have another word with your dad too.” 

“Pity you didn’t hear what Malfoy’s actually doing, 
though.” 

“I couldn’t have done, could I? That was the whole 
point, he was refusing to tell Snape.” 

There was silence for a moment or two, then Ron 
said, “ ’Course, you know what they’ll all say? Dad 
and Dumbledore and all of them? They’ll say Snape 
isn’t really trying to help Malfoy, he was just trying to 
find out what Malfoy’s up to.” 

“They didn’t hear him,” said Harry flatly. “No one’s 
that good an actor, not even Snape.” 

“Yeah ... I’m just saying, though,” said Ron. 

Harry turned to face him, frowning. “You think I’m 
right, though?” 

“Yeah, I do!” said Ron hastily. “Seriously, I do! But 
they’re all convinced Snape’s in the Order, aren’t 
they?” 

Harry said nothing. It had already occurred to him 
that this would be the most likely objection to his new 
evidence; he could hear Hermione now: Obviously, 
Harry, he was pretending to offer help so he could trick 
Malfoy into telling him what he’s doing. ... 



Page | 370 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




This was pure imagination, however, as he had had 
no opportunity to tell Hermione what he had 
overheard. She had disappeared from Slughorn’s 
parry before he returned to it, or so he had been 
informed by an irate McLaggen, and she had already 
gone to bed by the time he returned to the common 
room. As he and Ron had left for the Burrow early the 
next day, he had barely had time to wish her a happy 
Christmas and to tell her that he had some very 
important news when they got back from the 
holidays. He was not entirely sure that she had heard 
him, though; Ron and Lavender had been saying a 
thoroughly nonverbal good-bye just behind him at the 
time. 

Still, even Hermione would not be able to deny one 
thing: Malfoy was definitely up to something, and 
Snape knew it, so Harry felt fully justified in saying “I 
told you so,” which he had done several times to Ron 
already. 

Harry did not get the chance to speak to Mr. Weasley, 
who was working very long hours at the Ministry, 
until Christmas Eve night. The Weasleys and their 
guests were sitting in the living room, which Ginny 
had decorated so lavishly that it was rather like 
sitting in a paper-chain explosion. Fred, George, 

Harry, and Ron were the only ones who knew that the 
angel on top of the tree was actually a garden gnome 
that had bitten Fred on the ankle as he pulled up 
carrots for Christmas dinner. Stupefied, painted gold, 
stuffed into a miniature tutu and with small wings 
glued to its back, it glowered down at them all, the 
ugliest angel Harry had ever seen, with a large bald 
head like a potato and rather hairy feet. 

They were all supposed to be listening to a Christmas 
broadcast by Mrs. Weasley’s favorite singer, Celestina 
Warbeck, whose voice was warbling out of the large 

Page | 371 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




wooden wireless set. Fleur, who seemed to find 
Celestina very dull, was talking so loudly in the 
corner that a scowling Mrs. Weasley kept pointing her 
wand at the volume control, so that Celestina grew 
louder and louder. Under cover of a particularly jazzy 
number called “A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love,” 
Fred and George started a game of Exploding Snap 
with Ginny. Ron kept shooting Bill and Fleur covert 
looks, as though hoping to pick up tips. Meanwhile, 
Remus Lupin, who was thinner and more ragged- 
looking than ever, was sitting beside the fire, staring 
into its depths as though he could not hear 
Celestina’s voice. 

Oh, come and stir my cauldron, 

And if you do it right, 

I’ll boil you up some hot strong love 
To keep you warm tonight. 

“We danced to this when we were eighteen!” said Mrs. 
Weasley, wiping her eyes on her knitting. “Do you 
remember, Arthur?” 

“Mphf?” said Mr. Weasley, whose head had been 
nodding over the satsuma he was peeling. “Oh yes . . . 
marvelous tune ...” 

With an effort, he sat up a little straighter and looked 
around at Harry, who was sitting next to him. 

“Sorry about this,” he said, jerking his head toward 
the wireless as Celestina broke into the chorus. “Be 
over soon.” 

“No problem,” said Harry, grinning. “Has it been busy 
at the Ministry?” 

“Very,” said Mr. Weasley. “I wouldn’t mind if we were 
getting anywhere, but of the three arrests we’ve made 

Page | 372 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




in the last couple of months, I doubt that one of them 
is a genuine Death Eater — only don’t repeat that, 
Harry,” he added quickly, looking much more awake 
all of a sudden. 

“They’re not still holding Stan Shunpike, are they?” 
asked Harry. 

“I’m afraid so,” said Mr. Weasley. “I know 
Dumbledore’s tried appealing directly to Scrimgeour 
about Stan. ... I mean, anybody who has actually 
interviewed him agrees that he’s about as much a 
Death Eater as this satsuma . . . but the top levels 
want to look as though they’re making some progress, 
and ‘three arrests’ sounds better than ‘three mistaken 
arrests and releases’... but again, this is all top 
secret. ...” 

“I won’t say anything,” said Harry. He hesitated for a 
moment, wondering how best to embark on what he 
wanted to say; as he marshaled his thoughts, 
Celestina Warbeck began a ballad called “You 
Charmed the Heart Right Out of Me.” 

“Mr. Weasley, you know what I told you at the station 
when we were setting off for school?” 

“I checked, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley at once. “I went 
and searched the Malfoys’ house. There was nothing, 
either broken or whole, that shouldn’t have been 
there.” 

“Yeah, I know, I saw in the Prophet that you’d looked 
... but this is something different. ... Well, something 
more ...” 

And he told Mr. Weasley everything he had overheard 
between Malfoy and Snape. As Harry spoke, he saw 
Lupin’s head turn a little toward him, taking in every 

Page | 373 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




word. When he had finished, there was silence, except 
for Celestina’s crooning. 

Oh, my poor heart, where has it gone? 

It’s left me for a spell . . . 

“Has it occurred to you, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, 
“that Snape was simply pretending — ?” 

“Pretending to offer help, so that he could find out 
what Malfoy’s up to?” said Harry quickly. “Yeah, I 
thought you’d say that. But how do we know?” 

“It isn’t our business to know,” said Lupin 
unexpectedly. He had turned his back on the fire now 
and faced Harry across Mr. Weasley. “It’s 
Dumbledore’s business. Dumbledore trusts Severus, 
and that ought to be good enough for all of us.” 

“But,” said Harry, “just say — just say Dumbledore’s 
wrong about Snape — ” 

“People have said it, many times. It comes down to 
whether or not you trust Dumbledore’s judgment. I 
do; therefore, I trust Severus.” 

“But Dumbledore can make mistakes,” argued Harry. 
“He says it himself. And you” — he looked Lupin 
straight in the eye — “do you honestly like Snape?” 

“I neither like nor dislike Severus,” said Lupin. “No, 
Harry, I am speaking the truth,” he added, as Harry 
pulled a skeptical expression. “We shall never be 
bosom friends, perhaps; after all that happened 
between James and Sirius and Severus, there is too 
much bitterness there. But I do not forget that during 
the year I taught at Hogwarts, Severus made the 
Wolfsbane Potion for me every month, made it 
Page | 374 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




perfectly, so that I did not have to suffer as I usually 
do at the full moon.” 

“But he ‘accidentally’ let it slip that you’re a werewolf, 
so you had to leave!” said Harry angrily. 

Lupin shrugged. “The news would have leaked out 
anyway. We both know he wanted my job, but he 
could have wreaked much worse damage on me by 
tampering with the potion. He kept me healthy. I 
must be grateful.” 

“Maybe he didn’t dare mess with the potion with 
Dumbledore watching him!” said Harry. 

“You are determined to hate him, Harry,” said Lupin 
with a faint smile. “And I understand; with James as 
your father, with Sirius as your godfather, you have 
inherited an old prejudice. By all means tell 
Dumbledore what you have told Arthur and me, but 
do not expect him to share your view of the matter; do 
not even expect him to be surprised by what you tell 
him. It might have been on Dumbledore’s orders that 
Severus questioned Draco.” 

... and now you’ve torn it quite apart 

I’ll thank you to give back my heart! 

Celestina ended her song on a very long, high-pitched 
note and loud applause issued out of the wireless, 
which Mrs. Weasley joined in with enthusiastically. 

“Eez eet over?” said Fleur loudly. “Thank goodness, 
what an ’orrible — ” 

“Shall we have a nightcap, then?” asked Mr. Weasley 
loudly, leaping to his feet. “Who wants eggnog?” 



Page | 375 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What have you been up to lately?” Harry asked 
Lupin, as Mr. Weasley bustled off to fetch the eggnog, 
and everybody else stretched and broke into 
conversation. 

“Oh, I’ve been underground,” said Lupin. “Almost 
literally. That’s why I haven’t been able to write, 

Harry; sending letters to you would have been 
something of a giveaway.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“I’ve been living among my fellows, my equals,” said 
Lupin. “Werewolves,” he added, at Harry’s look of 
incomprehension. “Nearly all of them are on 
Voldemort’s side. Dumbledore wanted a spy and here 
I was ... ready-made.” 

He sounded a little bitter, and perhaps realized it, for 
he smiled more warmly as he went on, “I am not 
complaining; it is necessary work and who can do it 
better than I? However, it has been difficult gaining 
their trust. I bear the unmistakable signs of having 
tried to live among wizards, you see, whereas they 
have shunned normal society and live on the margins, 
stealing — and sometimes killing — to eat.” 

“How come they like Voldemort?” 

“They think that, under his rule, they will have a 
better life,” said Lupin. “And it is hard to argue with 
Grey back out there. ...” 

“Who’s Grey back?” 

“You haven’t heard of him?” Lupin’s hands closed 
convulsively in his lap. “Fenrir Greyback is, perhaps, 
the most savage werewolf alive today. He regards it as 
his mission in life to bite and to contaminate as many 

Page | 376 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




people as possible; he wants to create enough 
werewolves to overcome the wizards. Voldemort has 
promised him prey in return for his services. 

Greyback specializes in children. ... Bite them young, 
he says, and raise them away from their parents, 
raise them to hate normal wizards. Voldemort has 
threatened to unleash him upon people’s sons and 
daughters; it is a threat that usually produces good 
results.” 

Lupin paused and then said, “It was Greyback who 
bit me.” 

“What?” said Harry, astonished. “When — when you 
were a kid, you mean?” 

“Yes. My father had offended him. I did not know, for 
a very long time, the identity of the werewolf who had 
attacked me; I even felt pity for him, thinking that he 
had had no control, knowing by then how it felt to 
transform. But Greyback is not like that. At the full 
moon, he positions himself close to victims, ensuring 
that he is near enough to strike. He plans it all. And 
this is the man Voldemort is using to marshal the 
werewolves. I cannot pretend that my particular 
brand of reasoned argument is making much 
headway against Greyback’s insistence that we 
werewolves deserve blood, that we ought to revenge 
ourselves on normal people.” 

“But you are normal!” said Harry fiercely. “You’ve just 
got a — a problem — ” 

Lupin burst out laughing. “Sometimes you remind me 
a lot of James. He called it my ‘furry little problem’ in 
company. Many people were under the impression 
that I owned a badly behaved rabbit.” 



Page | 377 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




He accepted a glass of eggnog from Mr. Weasley with 
a word of thanks, looking slightly more cheerful. 
Harry, meanwhile, felt a rush of excitement: This last 
mention of his father had reminded him that there 
was something he had been looking forward to asking 
Lupin. 

“Have you ever heard of someone called the Half- 
Blood Prince?” 

“The Half-Blood what?” 

“Prince,” said Harry, watching him closely for signs of 
recognition. 

“There are no Wizarding princes,” said Lupin, now 
smiling. “Is this a title you’re thinking of adopting? I 
should have thought being ‘the Chosen One’ would be 
enough.” 

“It’s nothing to do with me!” said Harry indignantly. 
“The Half-Blood Prince is someone who used to go to 
Hogwarts, I’ve got his old Potions book. He wrote 
spells all over it, spells he invented. One of them was 
Levicorpus — ” 

“Oh, that one had a great vogue during my time at 
Hogwarts,” said Lupin reminiscently. “There were a 
few months in my fifth year when you couldn’t move 
for being hoisted into the air by your ankle.” 

“My dad used it,” said Harry. “I saw him in the 
Pensieve, he used it on Snape.” 

He tried to sound casual, as though this was a 
throwaway comment of no real importance, but he 
was not sure he had achieved the right effect; Lupin’s 
smile was a little too understanding. 



Page | 378 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” he said, “but he wasn’t the only one. As I say, it 
was very popular. ... You know how these spells come 
and go. ...” 

“But it sounds like it was invented while you were at 
school,” Harry persisted. 

“Not necessarily,” said Lupin. “Jinxes go in and out of 
fashion like everything else.” 

He looked into Harry’s face and then said quietly, 
“James was a pureblood, Harry, and I promise you, 
he never asked us to call him ‘Prince.’ ” 

Abandoning pretense, Harry said, “And it wasn’t 
Sirius? Or you?” 

“Definitely not.” 

“Oh.” Harry stared into the fire. “I just thought — 
well, he’s helped me out a lot in Potions classes, the 
Prince has.” 

“How old is this book, Harry?” 

“I dunno, I’ve never checked.” 

“Well, perhaps that will give you some clue as to when 
the Prince was at Hogwarts,” said Lupin. 

Shortly after this, Fleur decided to imitate Celestina 
singing “A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love,” which 
was taken by everyone, once they had glimpsed Mrs. 
Weasley’s expression, to be the cue to go to bed. 

Harry and Ron climbed all the way up to Ron’s attic 
bedroom, where a camp bed had been added for 
Harry. 



Page | 379 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron fell asleep almost immediately, but Harry delved 
into his trunk and pulled out his copy of Advanced 
Potion-Making before getting into bed. There he turned 
its pages, searching, until he finally found, at the 
front of the book, the date that it had been published. 
It was nearly fifty years old. Neither his father, nor his 
father’s friends, had been at Hogwarts fifty years ago. 
Feeling disappointed, Harry threw the book back into 
his trunk, turned off the lamp, and rolled over, 
thinking of werewolves and Snape, Stan Shunpike 
and the Half-Blood Prince, and finally falling into an 
uneasy sleep full of creeping shadows and the cries of 
bitten children. ... 

“She’s got to be joking. ...” 

Harry woke with a start to find a bulging stocking 
lying over the end of his bed. He put on his glasses 
and looked around; the tiny window was almost 
completely obscured with snow and, in front of it, Ron 
was sitting bolt upright in bed and examining what 
appeared to be a thick gold chain. 

“What’s that?” asked Harry. 

“It’s from Lavender,” said Ron, sounding revolted. 

“She can’t honestly think I’d wear ...” 

Harry looked more closely and let out a shout of 
laughter. Dangling from the chain in large gold letters 
were the words: 

My Sweetheart 

“Nice,” he said. “Classy. You should definitely wear it 
in front of Fred and George.” 



Page | 380 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“If you tell them,” said Ron, shoving the necklace out 
of sight under his pillow, “I — I — 111 — ” 

“Stutter at me?” said Harry, grinning. “Come on, 
would I?” 

“How could she think I’d like something like that, 
though?” Ron demanded of thin air, looking rather 
shocked. 

“Well, think back,” said Harry. “Have you ever let it 
slip that you’d like to go out in public with the words 
‘My Sweetheart’ round your neck?” 

“Well ... we don’t really talk much,” said Ron. “It’s 
mainly ...” 

“Snogging,” said Harry. 

“Well, yeah,” said Ron. He hesitated a moment, then 
said, “Is Hermione really going out with McLaggen?” 

“I dunno,” said Harry. “They were at Slughorn’s party 
together, but I don’t think it went that well.” 

Ron looked slightly more cheerful as he delved deeper 
into his stocking. 

Harry’s presents included a sweater with a large 
Golden Snitch worked onto the front, hand-knitted by 
Mrs. Weasley, a large box of Weasleys’ Wizard 
Wheezes products from the twins, and a slightly 
damp, moldy-smelling package that came with a label 
reading TO MASTER, FROM KREACHER. 

Harry stared at it. “D’you reckon this is safe to open?” 
he asked. 



Page | 381 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Can’t be anything dangerous, all our mail’s still 
being searched at the Ministry,” replied Ron, though 
he was eyeing the parcel suspiciously. 

“I didn’t think of giving Kreacher anything. Do people 
usually give their house-elves Christmas presents?” 
asked Harry, prodding the parcel cautiously. 

“Hermione would,” said Ron. “But let’s wait and see 
what it is before you start feeling guilty.” 

A moment later, Harry had given a loud yell and leapt 
out of his camp bed; the package contained a large 
number of maggots. 

“Nice,” said Ron, roaring with laughter. “Very 
thoughtful.” 

“I’d rather have them than that necklace,” said Harry, 
which sobered Ron up at once. 

Everybody was wearing new sweaters when they all 
sat down for Christmas lunch, everyone except Fleur 
(on whom, it appeared, Mrs. Weasley had not wanted 
to waste one) and Mrs. Weasley herself, who was 
sporting a brand-new midnight blue witch’s hat 
glittering with what looked like tiny starlike 
diamonds, and a spectacular golden necklace. 

“Fred and George gave them to me! Aren’t they 
beautiful?” 

“Well, we find we appreciate you more and more, 
Mum, now we’re washing our own socks,” said 
George, waving an airy hand. “Parsnips, Remus?” 

“Harry, you’ve got a maggot in your hair,” said Ginny 
cheerfully, leaning across the table to pick it out; 



Page | 382 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry felt goose bumps erupt up his neck that had 
nothing to do with the maggot. 

“ ’Ow ’orrible,” said Fleur, with an affected little 
shudder. 

“Yes, isn’t it?” said Ron. “Gravy, Fleur?” 

In his eagerness to help her, he knocked the gravy 
boat flying; Bill waved his wand and the gravy soared 
up in the air and returned meekly to the boat. 

“You are as bad as zat Tonks,” said Fleur to Ron, 
when she had finished kissing Bill in thanks. “She is 
always knocking — ” 

“I invited dear Tonks to come along today,” said Mrs. 
Weasley, setting down the carrots with unnecessary 
force and glaring at Fleur. “But she wouldn’t come. 
Have you spoken to her lately, Remus?” 

“No, I haven’t been in contact with anybody very 
much,” said Lupin. “But Tonks has got her own 
family to go to, hasn’t she?” 

“Hmmm,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Maybe. I got the 
impression she was planning to spend Christmas 
alone, actually.” 

She gave Lupin an annoyed look, as though it was all 
his fault she was getting Fleur for a daughter-in-law 
instead of Tonks, but Harry, glancing across at Fleur, 
who was now feeding Bill bits of turkey off her own 
fork, thought that Mrs. Weasley was fighting a long- 
lost battle. He was, however, reminded of a question 
he had with regard to Tonks, and who better to ask 
than Lupin, the man who knew all about Patronuses? 



Page | 383 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Tonks’s Patronus has changed its form,” he told him. 
“Snape said so anyway. I didn’t know that could 
happen. Why would your Patronus change?” 
