“Get away from me, werewolf” 

Lupin stopped dead. Then, with an obvious effort, he 
turned to Hermione and said, “How long have you 
known?” 

“Ages,” Hermione whispered. “Since I did Professor 
Snape’s essay. ...” 

“He’ll be delighted,” said Lupin coolly. “He assigned 
that essay hoping someone would realize what my 
symptoms meant. ... Did you check the lunar chart 
and realize that I was always ill at the full moon? Or 
did you realize that the boggart changed into the 
moon when it saw me?” 

“Both,” Hermione said quietly. 



Page | 385 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin forced a laugh. 

“You’re the cleverest witch of your age I’ve ever met, 
Hermione.” 

“I’m not,” Hermione whispered. “If I’d been a bit 
cleverer, I’d have told everyone what you are!” 

“But they already know,” said Lupin. “At least, the 
staff do.” 

“Dumbledore hired you when he knew you were a 
werewolf?” Ron gasped. “Is he mad?” 

“Some of the staff thought so,” said Lupin. “He had to 
work very hard to convince certain teachers that I’m 
trustworthy — ” 

“AND HE WAS WRONG!” Harry yelled. “YOU VE BEEN 
HELPING HIM ALL THE TIME!” He was pointing at 
Black, who suddenly crossed to the four-poster bed 
and sank onto it, his face hidden in one shaking 
hand. Crookshanks leapt up beside him and stepped 
onto his lap, purring. Ron edged away from both of 
them, dragging his leg. 

“I have not been helping Sirius,” said Lupin. “If you’ll 
give me a chance, I’ll explain. Look — ” 

He separated Harry’s, Ron’s and Hermione’s wands 
and threw each back to its owner; Harry caught his, 
stunned. 

“There,” said Lupin, sticking his own wand back into 
his belt. “You’re armed, we’re not. Now will you 
listen?” 

Harry didn’t know what to think. Was it a trick? 



Page | 386 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“If you haven’t been helping him,” he said, with a 
furious glance at Black, “how did you know he was 
here?” 



“The map,” said Lupin. “The Marauder’s Map. I was in 
my office examining it — ” 

“You know how to work it?” Harry said suspiciously. 

“Of course I know how to work it,” said Lupin, waving 
his hand impatiently. “I helped write it. I’m Moony — 
that was my friends’ nickname for me at school.” 

“You wrote — ?” 

“The important thing is, I was watching it carefully 
this evening, because I had an idea that you, Ron, 
and Hermione might try and sneak out of the castle to 
visit Hagrid before his hippogriff was executed. And I 
was right, wasn’t I?” 

He had started to pace up and down, looking at them. 
Little patches of dust rose at his feet. 

“You might have been wearing your father’s old cloak, 
Harry — ” 

“How d’you know about the cloak?” 

“The number of times I saw James disappearing 
under it... ,” said Lupin, waving an impatient hand 
again. “The point is, even if you’re wearing an 
Invisibility Cloak, you still show up on the Marauder’s 
Map. I watched you cross the grounds and enter 
Hagrid’s hut. Twenty minutes later, you left Hagrid, 
and set off back toward the castle. But you were now 
accompanied by somebody else.” 

“What?” said Harry. “No, we weren’t!” 

Page | 387 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I couldn’t believe my eyes,” said Lupin, still pacing, 
and ignoring Harry’s interruption. “I thought the map 
must be malfunctioning. How could he be with you?” 

“No one was with us!” said Harry. 

“And then I saw another dot, moving fast toward you, 
labeled Sirius Black. ... I saw him collide with you; I 
watched as he pulled two of you into the Whomping 
Willow — ” 

“One of us!” Ron said angrily. 

“No, Ron,” said Lupin. “Two of you.” 

He had stopped his pacing, his eyes moving over Ron. 

“Do you think I could have a look at the rat?” he said 
evenly. 

“What?” said Ron. “What’s Scabbers got to do with 
it?” 



“Everything,” said Lupin. “Could I see him, please?” 

Ron hesitated, then put a hand inside his robes. 
Scabbers emerged, thrashing desperately; Ron had to 
seize his long bald tail to stop him escaping. 
Crookshanks stood up on Black’s leg and made a soft 
hissing noise. 

Lupin moved closer to Ron. He seemed to be holding 
his breath as he gazed intently at Scabbers. 

“What?” Ron said again, holding Scabbers close to 
him, looking scared. “What’s my rat got to do with 
anything?” 

“That’s not a rat,” croaked Sirius Black suddenly. 

Page | 388 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What d’you mean — of course he’s a rat — ” 

“No, he’s not,” said Lupin quietly. “He’s a wizard.” 

“An Animagus,” said Black, “by the name of Peter 
Pettigrew.” 



Page | 389 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






MOONY, WORMTAIL, PADFOOT, AND 

PRONGS 

It took a few seconds for the absurdity of this 
statement to sink in. Then Ron voiced what Harry 
was thinking. 

“You’re both mental.” 

“Ridiculous!” said Hermione faintly. 

“Peter Pettigrew’s dead!” said Harry. “He killed him 
twelve years ago!” He pointed at Black, whose face 
twitched convulsively. 

“I meant to,” he growled, his yellow teeth bared, “but 
little Peter got the better of me ... not this time, 
though!” 

And Crookshanks was thrown to the floor as Black 
lunged at Scabbers; Ron yelled with pain as Black’s 
weight fell on his broken leg. 



Page | 390 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius, NO!” Lupin yelled, launching himself forwards 
and dragging Black away from Ron again, “WAIT! You 
can’t do it just like that — they need to understand — 
we’ve got to explain — ” 

“We can explain afterwards!” snarled Black, trying to 
throw Lupin off. One hand was still clawing the air as 
it tried to reach Scabbers, who was squealing like a 
piglet, scratching Ron’s face and neck as he tried to 
escape. 

“They’ve — got — a — right — to — know — 
everything!” Lupin panted, still trying to restrain 
Black. “Ron’s kept him as a pet! There are parts of it 
even I don’t understand! And Harry — you owe Harry 
the truth, Sirius!” 

Black stopped struggling, though his hollowed eyes 
were still fixed on Scabbers, who was clamped tightly 
under Ron’s bitten, scratched, and bleeding hands. 

“All right, then,” Black said, without taking his eyes 
off the rat. “Tell them whatever you like. But make it 
quick, Remus. I want to commit the murder I was 
imprisoned for. ...” 

“You’re nutters, both of you,” said Ron shakily, 
looking round at Harry and Hermione for support. 

“I’ve had enough of this. I’m off.” 

He tried to heave himself up on his good leg, but 
Lupin raised his wand again, pointing it at Scabbers. 

“You’re going to hear me out, Ron,” he said quietly. 
“Just keep a tight hold on Peter while you listen.” 

“HE’S NOT PETER, HE’S SCABBERS!” Ron yelled, 
trying to force the rat back into his front pocket, but 
Scabbers was fighting too hard; Ron swayed and 

Page | 391 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




overbalanced, and Harry caught him and pushed him 
back down to the bed. Then, ignoring Black, Harry 
turned to Lupin. 

“There were witnesses who saw Pettigrew die,” he 
said. “A whole street full of them ...” 

“They didn’t see what they thought they saw!” said 
Black savagely, still watching Scabbers struggling in 
Ron’s hands. 

“Everyone thought Sirius killed Peter,” said Lupin, 
nodding. “I believed it myself — until I saw the map 
tonight. Because the Marauder’s map never lies ... 
Peter’s alive. Ron’s holding him, Harry.” 

Harry looked down at Ron, and as their eyes met, 
they agreed, silently: Black and Lupin were both out 
of their minds. Their story made no sense whatsoever. 
How could Scabbers be Peter Pettigrew? Azkaban 
must have unhinged Black after all — but why was 
Lupin playing along with him? 

Then Hermione spoke, in a trembling, would-be calm 
sort of voice, as though trying to will Professor Lupin 
to talk sensibly. 

“But Professor Lupin ... Scabbers can’t be Pettigrew 
... it just can’t be true, you know it can’t ...” 

“Why can’t it be true?” Lupin said calmly, as though 
they were in class, and Hermione had simply spotted 
a problem in an experiment with grindylows. 

“Because . . . because people would know if Peter 
Pettigrew had been an Animagus. We did Animagi in 
class with Professor McGonagall. And I looked them 
up when I did my homework — the Ministry of Magic 
keeps tabs on witches and wizards who can become 
Page | 392 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




animals; there’s a register showing what animal they 
become, and their markings and things ... and I went 
and looked Professor McGonagall up on the register, 
and there have been only seven Animagi this century, 
and Pettigrew’s name wasn’t on the list — ” 

Harry had barely had time to marvel inwardly at the 
effort Hermione put into her homework, when Lupin 
started to laugh. “Right again, Hermione!” he said. 
“But the Ministry never knew that there used to be 
three unregistered Animagi running around 
Hogwarts.” 

“If you’re going to tell them the story, get a move on, 
Remus,” snarled Black, who was still watching 
Scabbers’s every desperate move. “I’ve waited twelve 
years, I’m not going to wait much longer.” 

“All right ... but you’ll need to help me, Sirius,” said 
Lupin, “I only know how it began ...” 

Lupin broke off. There had been a loud creak behind 
him. The bedroom door had opened of its own accord. 
All five of them stared at it. Then Lupin strode toward 
it and looked out into the landing. 

“No one there ...” 

“This place is haunted!” said Ron. 

“It’s not,” said Lupin, still looking at the door in a 
puzzled way. “The Shrieking Shack was never 
haunted. ... The screams and howls the villagers used 
to hear were made by me.” 

He pushed his graying hair out of his eyes, thought 
for a moment, then said, “That’s where all of this 
starts — with my becoming a werewolf. None of this 



Page | 393 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




could have happened if I hadn’t been bitten ... and if I 
hadn’t been so foolhardy. ...” 

He looked sober and tired. Ron started to interrupt, 
but Hermione said, “Shh!” She was watching Lupin 
very intently. 

“I was a very small boy when I received the bite. My 
parents tried everything, but in those days there was 
no cure. The potion that Professor Snape has been 
making for me is a very recent discovery. It makes me 
safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week 
preceding the full moon, I keep my mind when I 
transform. ... I am able to curl up in my office, a 
harmless wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again. 

“Before the Wolfsbane Potion was discovered, 
however, I became a fully fledged monster once a 
month. It seemed impossible that I would be able to 
come to Hogwarts. Other parents weren’t likely to 
want their children exposed to me. 

“But then Dumbledore became Headmaster, and he 
was sympathetic. He said that as long as we took 
certain precautions, there was no reason I shouldn’t 
come to school. ...” Lupin sighed, and looked directly 
at Harry. “I told you, months ago, that the Whomping 
Willow was planted the year I came to Hogwarts. The 
truth is that it was planted because I came to 
Hogwarts. This house” — Lupin looked miserably 
around the room, — “the tunnel that leads to it — 
they were built for my use. Once a month, I was 
smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to 
transform. The tree was placed at the tunnel mouth 
to stop anyone coming across me while I was 
dangerous.” 

Harry couldn’t see where this story was going, but he 
was listening raptly all the same. The only sound 

Page | 394 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




apart from Lupin’s voice was Scabbers’s frightened 
squeaking. 



“My transformations in those days were — were 
terrible. It is very painful to turn into a werewolf. I 
was separated from humans to bite, so I bit and 
scratched myself instead. The villagers heard the 
noise and the screaming and thought they were 
hearing particularly violent spirits. Dumbledore 
encouraged the rumor. . . . Even now, when the house 
has been silent for years, the villagers don’t dare 
approach it. ... 

“But apart from my transformations, I was happier 
than I had ever been in my life. For the first time ever, 
I had friends, three great friends. Sirius Black ... 

Peter Pettigrew ... and, of course, your father, Harry 
— James Potter. 

“Now, my three friends could hardly fail to notice that 
I disappeared once a month. I made up all sorts of 
stories. I told them my mother was ill, and that I had 
to go home to see her. ... I was terrified they would 
desert me the moment they found out what I was. But 
of course, they, like you, Hermione, worked out the 
truth. ... 

“And they didn’t desert me at all. Instead, they did 
something for me that would make my 
transformations not only bearable, but the best times 
of my life. They became Animagi.” 

“My dad too?” said Harry, astounded. 

“Yes, indeed,” said Lupin. “It took them the best part 
of three years to work out how to do it. Your father 
and Sirius here were the cleverest students in the 
school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus 
transformation can go horribly wrong — one reason 
Page | 395 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




the Ministry keeps a close watch on those attempting 
to do it. Peter needed all the help he could get from 
James and Sirius. Finally, in our fifth year, they 
managed it. They could each turn into a different 
animal at will.” 

“But how did that help you?” said Hermione, 
sounding puzzled. 

“They couldn’t keep me company as humans, so they 
kept me company as animals,” said Lupin. “A 
werewolf is only a danger to people. They sneaked out 
of the castle every month under James’s Invisibility 
Cloak. They transformed . . . Peter, as the smallest, 
could slip beneath the Willow’s attacking branches 
and touch the knot that freezes it. They would then 
slip down the tunnel and join me. Under their 
influence, I became less dangerous. My body was still 
wolfish, but my mind seemed to become less so while 
I was with them.” 

“Hurry up, Remus,” snarled Black, who was still 
watching Scabbers with a horrible sort of hunger on 
his face. 

“I’m getting there, Sirius, I’m getting there ... well, 
highly exciting possibilities were open to us now that 
we could all transform. Soon we were leaving the 
Shrieking Shack and roaming the school grounds and 
the village by night. Sirius and James transformed 
into such large animals, they were able to keep a 
werewolf in check. I doubt whether any Hogwarts 
students ever found out more about the Hogwarts 
grounds and Hogsmeade than we did. ... And that’s 
how we came to write the Marauder’s Map, and sign it 
with our nicknames. Sirius is Padfoot. Peter is 
Wormtail. James was Prongs.” 



Page | 396 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What sort of animal — ?” Harry began, but Hermione 
cut him off. 

“That was still really dangerous! Running around in 
the dark with a werewolf! What if you’d given the 
others the slip, and bitten somebody?” 

“A thought that still haunts me,” said Lupin heavily. 
“And there were near misses, many of them. We 
laughed about them afterwards. We were young, 
thoughtless — carried away with our own cleverness.” 

“I sometimes felt guilty about betraying Dumbledore’s 
trust, of course ... he had admitted me to Hogwarts 
when no other headmaster would have done so, and 
he had no idea I was breaking the rules he had set 
down for my own and others’ safety. He never knew I 
had led three fellow students into becoming Animagi 
illegally. But I always managed to forget my guilty 
feelings every time we sat down to plan our next 
month’s adventure. And I haven’t changed ...” 

Lupin’s face had hardened, and there was self-disgust 
in his voice. “All this year, I have been battling with 
myself, wondering whether I should tell Dumbledore 
that Sirius was an Animagus. But I didn’t do it. Why? 
Because I was too cowardly. It would have meant 
admitting that I’d betrayed his trust while I was at 
school, admitting that I’d led others along with me ... 
and Dumbledore’s trust has meant everything to me. 
He let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a 
job when I have been shunned all my adult life, 
unable to find paid work because of what I am. And 
so I convinced myself that Sirius was getting into the 
school using dark arts he learned from Voldemort, 
that being an Animagus had nothing to do with it . . . 
so, in a way, Snape’s been right about me all along.” 



Page | 397 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Snape?” said Black harshly, taking his eyes off 
Scabbers for the first time in minutes and looking up 
at Lupin. “What’s Snape got to do with it?” 

“He’s here, Sirius,” said Lupin heavily. “He’s teaching 
here as well.” He looked up at Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione. 

“Professor Snape was at school with us. He fought 
very hard against my appointment to the Defense 
Against the Dark Arts job. He has been telling 
Dumbledore all year that I am not to be trusted. He 
has his reasons ... you see, Sirius here played a trick 
on him which nearly killed him, a trick which 
involved me — ” 

Black made a derisive noise. 

“It served him right,” he sneered. “Sneaking around, 
trying to find out what we were up to . . . hoping he 
could get us expelled. ...” 

“Severus was very interested in where I went every 
month.” Lupin told Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “We 
were in the same year, you know, and we — er — 
didn’t like each other very much. He especially 
disliked James. Jealous, I think, of James’s talent on 
the Quidditch field . . . anyway Snape had seen me 
crossing the grounds with Madam Pomfrey one 
evening as she led me toward the Whomping Willow 
to transform. Sirius thought it would be — er — 
amusing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the 
knot on the tree trunk with a long stick, and he’d be 
able to get in after me. Well, of course, Snape tried it 
— if he’d got as far as this house, he’d have met a 
fully grown werewolf — but your father, who’d heard 
what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled 
him back, at great risk to his life . . . Snape glimpsed 
me, though, at the end of the tunnel. He was 
Page | 398 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




forbidden by Dumbledore to tell anybody, but from 
that time on he knew what I was. ...” 

“So that’s why Snape doesn’t like you,” said Harry 
slowly, “because he thought you were in on the joke?” 

“That’s right,” sneered a cold voice from the wall 
behind Lupin. 

Severus Snape was pulling off the Invisibility Cloak, 
his wand pointing directly at Lupin. 



Page | 399 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 








THE SERVANT OF LORD 
VOLDERMORT 

Hermione screamed. Black leapt to his feet. Harry felt 
as though he’d received a huge electric shock. 

“I found this at the base of the Whomping Willow,” 
said Snape, throwing the cloak aside, careful to keep 
this wand pointing directly at Lupin’s chest. “Very 
useful, Potter, I thank you. ...” 

Snape was slightly breathless, but his face was full of 
suppressed triumph. “You’re wondering, perhaps, 
how I knew you were here?” he said, his eyes 
glittering. “I’ve just been to your office, Lupin. You 
forgot to take your potion tonight, so I took a gobletful 
along. And very lucky I did ... lucky for me, I mean. 
Lying on your desk was a certain map. One glance at 
it told me all I needed to know. I saw you running 
along this passageway and out of sight.” 

“Severus — ” Lupin began, but Snape overrode him. 



Page | 400 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“I’ve told the headmaster again and again that you’re 
helping your old friend Black into the castle, Lupin, 
and here’s the proof. Not even I dreamed you would 
have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout 



“Severus, you’re making a mistake,” said Lupin 
urgently. “You haven’t heard everything — I can 
explain — Sirius is not here to kill Harry — ” 

“Two more for Azkaban tonight,” said Snape, his eyes 
now gleaming fanatically. “I shall be interested to see 
how Dumbledore takes this. ... He was quite 
convinced you were harmless, you know, Lupin ... a 
tame werewolf — ” 

“You fool,” said Lupin softly. “Is a schoolboy grudge 
worth putting an innocent man back inside 
Azkaban?” 

BANG! Thin, snakelike cords burst from the end of 
Snape’s wand and twisted themselves around Lupin’s 
mouth, wrists, and ankles; he overbalanced and fell 
to the floor, unable to move. With a roar of rage, 

Black started toward Snape, but Snape pointed his 
wand straight between Black’s eyes. 

“Give me a reason,” he whispered. “Give me a reason 
to do it, and I swear I will.” 

Black stopped dead. It would have been impossible to 
say which face showed more hatred. 

Harry stood there, paralyzed, not knowing what to do 
or whom to believe. He glanced around at Ron and 
Hermione. Ron looked just as confused as he did, still 
fighting to keep hold on the struggling Scabbers. 
Hermione, however, took an uncertain step toward 
Snape and said, in a very breathless voice, “Professor 
Page | 401 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Snape — it — it wouldn’t hurt to hear what they’ve 
got to say, w — would it?” 

“Miss Granger, you are already facing suspension 
from this school,” Snape spat. “You, Potter, and 
Weasley are out-of-bounds, in the company of a 
convicted murderer and a werewolf. For once in your 
life, hold your tongue.” 

“But if — if there was a mistake — ” 

“KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL!” Snape shouted, 
looking suddenly quite deranged. “DONT TALK 
ABOUT WHAT YOU DONT UNDERSTAND!” A few 
sparks shot out of the end of his wand, which was 
still pointed at Black’s face. Hermione fell silent. 

“Vengeance is very sweet,” Snape breathed at Black. 
“How I hoped I would be the one to catch you. ...” 

“The joke’s on you again, Severus,” Black snarled. “As 
long as this boy brings his rat up to the castle” — he 
jerked his head at Ron — “I’ll come quietly. ...” 

“Up to the castle?” said Snape silkily. “I don’t think 
we need to go that far. All I have to do is call the 
dementors once we get out of the Willow. They’ll be 
very pleased to see you, Black ... pleased enough to 
give you a little kiss, I daresay. ...” 

What little color there was in Black’s face left it. 

“You — you’ve got to hear me out,” he croaked. “The 
rat — look at the rat — ” 

But there was a mad glint in Snape ’s eyes that Harry 
had never seen before. He seemed beyond reason. 



Page | 402 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on, all of you,” he said. He clicked his fingers, 
and the ends of the cords that bound Lupin flew to 
his hands. “Ill drag the werewolf. Perhaps the 
dementors will have a kiss for him too — ” 

Before he knew what he was doing, Harry had crossed 
the room in three strides and blocked the door. 

“Get out of the way, Potter, you’re in enough trouble 
already,” snarled Snape. “If I hadn’t been here to save 
your skin — ” 

“Professor Lupin could have killed me about a 
hundred times this year,” Harry said. “I’ve been alone 
with him loads of times, having defense lessons 
against the dementors. If he was helping Black, why 
didn’t he just finish me off then?” 

“Don’t ask me to fathom the way a werewolf’s mind 
works,” hissed Snape. “Get out of the way, Potter.” 

“YOU’RE PATHETIC!” Harry yelled. “JUST BECAUSE 
THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT SCHOOL YOU 
WONT EVEN LISTEN — ” 

“SILENCE! I WILL NOT BE SPOKEN TO LIKE THAT!” 
Snape shrieked, looking madder than ever. “Like 
father, like son, Potter! I have just saved your neck; 
you should be thanking me on bended knee! You 
would have been well served if he’d killed you! You’d 
have died like your father, too arrogant to believe you 
might be mistaken in Black — now get out of the way, 
or I will make you. GET OUT OF THE WAY, POTTER!” 

Harry made up his mind in a split second. Before 
Snape could take even one step toward him, he had 
raised his wand. 



Page | 403 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ Expelliarmus\” he yelled — except that his wasn’t the 
only voice that shouted. There was a blast that made 
the door rattle on its hinges; Snape was lifted off his 
feet and slammed into the wall, then slid down it to 
the floor, a trickle of blood oozing from under his hair. 
He had been knocked out. 

Harry looked around. Both Ron and Hermione had 
tried to disarm Snape at exactly the same moment. 
Snape ’s wand soared in a high arc and landed on the 
bed next to Crookshanks. 

“You shouldn’t have done that,” said Black, looking at 
Harry. “You should have left him to me. ...” 

Harry avoided Black’s eyes. He wasn’t sure, even now, 
that he’d done the right thing. 

“We attacked a teacher. ... We attacked a teacher ... ,” 
Hermione whimpered, staring at the lifeless Snape 
with frightened eyes. “Oh, we’re going to be in so 
much trouble — ” 

Lupin was struggling against his bonds. Black bent 
down quickly and untied him. Lupin straightened up, 
rubbing his arms where the ropes had cut into them. 

“Thank you, Harry,” he said. 

“I’m still not saying I believe you,” he told Lupin. 

“Then it’s time we offered you some proof,” said 
Lupin. “You, boy — give me Peter, please. Now.” 

Ron clutched Scabbers closer to his chest. 

“Come off it,” he said weakly. “Are you trying to say 
he broke out of Azkaban just to get his hands on 
Scabbers ? I mean ...” He looked up at Harry and 

Page | 404 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione for support, “Okay, say Pettigrew could 
turn into a rat — there are millions of rats — how’s he 
supposed to know which one he’s after if he was 
locked up in Azkaban?” 

“You know, Sirius, that’s a fair question,” said Lupin, 
turning to Black and frowning slightly. “How did you 
find out where he was?” 

Black put one of his clawlike hands inside his robes 
and took out a crumpled piece of paper, which he 
smoothed flat and held out to show the others. 

It was the photograph of Ron and his family that had 
appeared in the Daily Prophet the previous summer, 
and there, on Ron’s shoulder, was Scabbers. 

“How did you get this?” Lupin asked Black, 
thunderstruck. 

“Fudge,” said Black. “When he came to inspect 
Azkaban last year, he gave me his paper. And there 
was Peter, on the front page ... on this boy’s shoulder. 
... I knew him at once . . . how many times had I seen 
him transform? And the caption said the boy would 
be going back to Hogwarts ... to where Harry was. ...” 

“My God,” said Lupin softly, staring from Scabbers to 
the picture in the paper and back again. “His front 
paw ...” 

“What about it?” said Ron defiantly. 

“He’s got a toe missing,” said Black. 

“Of course,” Lupin breathed. “So simple ... so brilliant 
... he cut it off himself?” 



Page | 405 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Just before he transformed,” said Black. “When I 
cornered him, he yelled for the whole street to hear 
that I’d betrayed Lily and James. Then, before I could 
curse him, he blew apart the street with the wand 
behind his back, killed everyone within twenty feet of 
himself — and sped down into the sewer with the 
other rats. ...” 

“Didn’t you ever hear, Ron?” said Lupin. “The biggest 
bit of Peter they found was his finger.” 

“Look, Scabbers probably had a fight with another rat 
or something! He’s been in my family for ages, right — 



“Twelve years, in fact,” said Lupin. “Didn’t you ever 
wonder why he was living so long?” 

“We — we’ve been taking good care of him!” said Ron. 

“Not looking too good at the moment, though, is he?” 
said Lupin. “I’d guess he’s been losing weight ever 
since he heard Sirius was on the loose again. ...” 

“He’s been scared of that mad cat!” said Ron, nodding 
toward Crookshanks, who was still purring on the 
bed. 

But that wasn’t right, Harry thought suddenly. ... 
Scabbers had been looking ill before he met 
Crookshanks . . . ever since Ron’s return from Egypt . . . 
since the time when Black had escaped. ... 

“This cat isn’t mad,” said Black hoarsely. He reached 
out a bony hand and stroked Crookshanks ’s fluffy 
head. “He’s the most intelligent of his kind I’ve ever 
met. He recognized Peter for what he was right away. 
And when he met me, he knew I was no dog. It was a 
while before he trusted me. ... Finally, I managed to 
Page | 406 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




communicate to him what I was after, and he’s been 
helping me. ...” 



“What do you mean?” breathed Hermione. 

“He tried to bring Peter to me, but couldn’t ... so he 
stole the passwords into Gryffindor Tower for me. ... 

As I understand it, he took them from a boy’s bedside 
table. ...” 

Harry’s brain seemed to be sagging under the weight 
of what he was hearing. It was absurd . . . and yet . . . 

“But Peter got wind of what was going on and ran for 
it. ...” croaked Black. “This cat — Crookshanks, did 
you call him? — told me Peter had left blood on the 
sheets. ... I supposed he bit himself. ... Well, faking 
his own death had worked once. ...” 

These words jolted Harry to his senses. 

“And why did he fake his death?” he said furiously. 
“Because he knew you were about to kill him like you 
killed my parents!” 

“No,” said Lupin, “Harry — ” 

“And now you’ve come to finish him off!” 

“Yes, I have,” said Black, with an evil look at 
Scabbers. 

“Then I should’ve let Snape take you!” Harry shouted. 

“Harry,” said Lupin hurriedly, “don’t you see? All this 
time we’ve thought Sirius betrayed your parents, and 
Peter tracked him down — but it was the other way 
around, don’t you see? Peter betrayed your mother 
and father — Sirius tracked Peter down — ” 

Page | 407 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“THAT’S NOT TRUE!” Harry yelled. “HE WAS THEIR 
SECRET-KEEPER! HE SAID SO BEFORE YOU 
TURNED UP. HE SAID HE KILLED THEM!” 

He was pointing at Black, who shook his head slowly; 
the sunken eyes were suddenly overbright. 

“Harry ... I as good as killed them,” he croaked. “I 
persuaded Lily and James to change to Peter at the 
last moment, persuaded them to use him as Secret- 
Keeper instead of me. ... I’m to blame, I know it. ... 
The night they died, I’d arranged to check on Peter, 
make sure he was still safe, but when I arrived at his 
hiding place, he’d gone. Yet there was no sign of a 
struggle. It didn’t feel right. I was scared. I set out for 
your parents’ house straight away. And when I saw 
their house, destroyed, and their bodies ... I realized 
what Peter must’ve done ... what I’d done. ...” 

His voice broke. He turned away. 

“Enough of this,” said Lupin, and there was a steely 
note in his voice Harry had never heard before. 
“There’s one certain way to prove what really 
happened. Ron, give me that rat” 

“What are you going to do with him if I give him to 
you?” Ron asked Lupin tensely. 

“Force him to show himself,” said Lupin. “If he really 
is a rat, it won’t hurt him.” 

Ron hesitated. Then at long last, he held out 
Scabbers and Lupin took him. Scabbers began to 
squeak without stopping, twisting and turning, his 
tiny black eyes bulging in his head. 

“Ready, Sirius?” said Lupin. 



Page | 408 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black had already retrieved Snape’s wand from the 
bed. He approached Lupin and the struggling rat, and 
his wet eyes suddenly seemed to be burning in his 
face. 

“Together?” he said quietly. 

“I think so,” said Lupin, holding Scabbers tightly in 
one hand and his wand in the other. “On the count of 
