struggling not to sink. “Give it to me!” 

But she just poked him painfully in the side with the 
end of the broomstick, laughing at him. 

“That hurts — get off — ouch — ” 

“Harry Potter must wake up, sir!” 

“Stop poking me — ” 



Page | 541 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Dobby must poke Harry Potter, sir, he must wake 
up!” 

Harry opened his eyes. He was still in the library; the 
Invisibility Cloak had slipped off his head as he’d 
slept, and the side of his face was stuck to the pages 
of Where There’s a Wand, There’s a Way. He sat up, 
straightening his glasses, blinking in the bright 
daylight. 

“Harry Potter needs to hurry!” squeaked Dobby. “The 
second task starts in ten minutes, and Harry Potter 



“Ten minutes?” Harry croaked. “Ten — ten minutes?” 

He looked down at his watch. Dobby was right. It was 
twenty past nine. A large, dead weight seemed to fall 
through Harry’s chest into his stomach. 

“Hurry, Harry Potter!” squeaked Dobby, plucking at 
Harry’s sleeve. “You is supposed to be down by the 
lake with the other champions, sir!” 

“It’s too late, Dobby,” Harry said hopelessly. “I’m not 
doing the task, I don’t know how — ” 

“Harry Potter will do the task!” squeaked the elf. 
“Dobby knew Harry had not found the right book, so 
Dobby did it for him!” 

“What?” said Harry. “But you don’t know what the 
second task is — ” 

“Dobby knows, sir! Harry Potter has to go into the 
lake and find his Wheezy — ” 

“Find my what?” 



Page | 542 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“ — and take his Wheezy back from the merpeople!” 



“What’s a Wheezy?” 

“Your Wheezy, sir, your Wheezy — Wheezy who is 
giving Dobby his sweater!” 

Dobby plucked at the shrunken maroon sweater he 
was now wearing over his shorts. 

“What?” Harry gasped. “They’ve got ... they’ve got 
Ron?” 

“The thing Harry Potter will miss most, sir!” squeaked 
Dobby. “ ‘But past an hour — ’ ” 

“ — ‘the prospect’s black,’ ” Harry recited, staring, 
horror-struck, at the elf. “ ‘Too late, it’s gone, it won’t 
come back.’ Dobby — what’ve I got to do?” 

“You has to eat this, sir!” squeaked the elf, and he put 
his hand in the pocket of his shorts and drew out a 
ball of what looked like slimy, grayish-green rat tails. 
“Right before you go into the lake, sir — gillyweed!” 

“What’s it do?” said Harry, staring at the gillyweed. 

“It will make Harry Potter breathe underwater, sir!” 

“Dobby,” said Harry frantically, “listen — are you sure 
about this?” 

He couldn’t quite forget that the last time Dobby had 
tried to “help” him, he had ended up with no bones in 
his right arm. 

“Dobby is quite sure, sir!” said the elf earnestly. 
“Dobby hears things, sir, he is a house-elf, he goes all 
over the castle as he lights the fires and mops the 

Page | 543 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




floors. Dobby heard Professor McGonagall and 
Professor Moody in the staffroom, talking about the 
next task. . . . Dobby cannot let Harry Potter lose his 
Wheezy!” 

Harry’s doubts vanished. Jumping to his feet he 
pulled off the Invisibility Cloak, stuffed it into his bag, 
grabbed the gillyweed, and put it into his pocket, then 
tore out of the library with Dobby at his heels. 

“Dobby is supposed to be in the kitchens, sir!” Dobby 
squealed as they burst into the corridor. “Dobby will 
be missed — good luck, Harry Potter, sir, good luck!” 

“See you later, Dobby!” Harry shouted, and he 
sprinted along the corridor and down the stairs, three 
at a time. 

The entrance hall contained a few last-minute 
stragglers, all leaving the Great Hall after breakfast 
and heading through the double oak doors to watch 
the second task. They stared as Harry flashed past, 
sending Colin and Dennis Creevey flying as he leapt 
down the stone steps and out onto the bright, chilly 
grounds. 

As he pounded down the lawn he saw that the seats 
that had encircled the dragons’ enclosure in 
November were now ranged along the opposite bank, 
rising in stands that were packed to the bursting 
point and reflected in the lake below. The excited 
babble of the crowd echoed strangely across the water 
as Harry ran flat-out around the other side of the lake 
toward the judges, who were sitting at another gold- 
draped table at the water’s edge. Cedric, Fleur, and 
Krum were beside the judges’ table, watching Harry 
sprint toward them. 



Page | 544 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm ... here ...” Harry panted, skidding to a halt in 
the mud and accidentally splattering Fleur’s robes. 

“Where have you been?” said a bossy, disapproving 
voice. “The task’s about to start!” 

Harry looked around. Percy Weasley was sitting at the 
judges’ table — Mr. Crouch had failed to turn up 
again. 

“Now, now, Percy!” said Ludo Bagman, who was 
looking intensely relieved to see Harry. “Let him catch 
his breath!” 

Dumbledore smiled at Harry, but Karkaroff and 
Madame Maxime didn’t look at all pleased to see him. 
... It was obvious from the looks on their faces that 
they had thought he wasn’t going to turn up. 

Harry bent over, hands on his knees, gasping for 
breath; he had a stitch in his side that felt as though 
he had a knife between his ribs, but there was no 
time to get rid of it; Ludo Bagman was now moving 
among the champions, spacing them along the bank 
at intervals of ten feet. Harry was on the very end of 
the line, next to Krum, who was wearing swimming 
trunks and was holding his wand ready. 

“All right, Harry?” Bagman whispered as he moved 
Harry a few feet farther away from Krum. “Know what 
you’re going to do?” 

“Yeah,” Harry panted, massaging his ribs. 

Bagman gave Harry’s shoulder a quick squeeze and 
returned to the judges’ table; he pointed his wand at 
his throat as he had done at the World Cup, said, 
“Sonorusl” and his voice boomed out across the dark 
water toward the stands. 

Page | 545 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, all our champions are ready for the second 
task, which will start on my whistle. They have 
precisely an hour to recover what has been taken 
from them. On the count of three, then. One ... two ... 
three!” 

The whistle echoed shrilly in the cold, still air; the 
stands erupted with cheers and applause; without 
looking to see what the other champions were doing, 
Harry pulled off his shoes and socks, pulled the 
handful of gillyweed out of his pocket, stuffed it into 
his mouth, and waded out into the lake. 

It was so cold he felt the skin on his legs searing as 
though this were fire, not icy water. His sodden robes 
weighed him down as he walked in deeper; now the 
water was over his knees, and his rapidly numbing 
feet were slipping over silt and flat, slimy stones. He 
was chewing the gillyweed as hard and fast as he 
could; it felt unpleasantly slimy and rubbery, like 
octopus tentacles. Waist-deep in the freezing water he 
stopped, swallowed, and waited for something to 
happen. 

He could hear laughter in the crowd and knew he 
must look stupid, walking into the lake without 
showing any sign of magical power. The part of him 
that was still dry was covered in goose pimples; half 
immersed in the icy water, a cruel breeze lifting his 
hair, Harry started to shiver violently. He avoided 
looking at the stands; the laughter was becoming 
louder, and there were catcalls and jeering from the 
Slytherins. ... 

Then, quite suddenly, Harry felt as though an 
invisible pillow had been pressed over his mouth and 
nose. He tried to draw breath, but it made his head 
spin; his lungs were empty, and he suddenly felt a 
piercing pain on either side of his neck — 

Page | 546 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry clapped his hands around his throat and felt 
two large slits just below his ears, flapping in the cold 
air. ... He had gills. Without pausing to think, he did 
the only thing that made sense — he flung himself 
forward into the water. 

The first gulp of icy lake water felt like the breath of 
life. His head had stopped spinning; he took another 
great gulp of water and felt it pass smoothly through 
his gills, sending oxygen back to his brain. He 
stretched out his hands in front of him and stared at 
them. They looked green and ghostly under the water, 
and they had become webbed. He twisted around and 
looked at his bare feet — they had become elongated 
and the toes were webbed too: It looked as though he 
had sprouted flippers. 

The water didn’t feel icy anymore either ... on the 
contrary, he felt pleasantly cool and very light. ... 
Harry struck out once more, marveling at how far and 
fast his flipper-like feet propelled him through the 
water, and noticing how clearly he could see, and how 
he no longer seemed to need to blink. He had soon 
swum so far into the lake that he could no longer see 
the bottom. He flipped over and dived into its depths. 

Silence pressed upon his ears as he soared over a 
strange, dark, foggy landscape. He could only see ten 
feet around him, so that as he sped through the water 
new scenes seemed to loom suddenly out of the 
oncoming darkness: forests of rippling, tangled black 
weed, wide plains of mud littered with dull, 
glimmering stones. He swam deeper and deeper, out 
toward the middle of the lake, his eyes wide, staring 
through the eerily gray-lit water around him to the 
shadows beyond, where the water became opaque. 

Small fish flickered past him like silver darts. Once or 
twice he thought he saw something larger moving 

Page | 547 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




ahead of him, but when he got nearer, he discovered 
it to be nothing but a large, blackened log, or a dense 
clump of weed. There was no sign of any of the other 
champions, merpeople, Ron — nor, thankfully, the 
giant squid. 

Light green weed stretched ahead of him as far as he 
could see, two feet deep, like a meadow of very 
overgrown grass. Harry was staring unblinkingly 
ahead of him, trying to discern shapes through the 
gloom . . . and then, without warning, something 
grabbed hold of his ankle. 

Harry twisted his body around and saw a grindylow, a 
small, horned water demon, poking out of the weed, 
its long fingers clutched tightly around Harry’s leg, its 
pointed fangs bared — Harry stuck his webbed hand 
quickly inside his robes and fumbled for his wand. By 
the time he had grasped it, two more grindylows had 
risen out of the weed, had seized handfuls of Harry’s 
robes, and were attempting to drag him down. 

“Relashio\” Harry shouted, except that no sound came 
out. ... A large bubble issued from his mouth, and his 
wand, instead of sending sparks at the grindylows, 
pelted them with what seemed to be a jet of boiling 
water, for where it struck them, angry red patches 
appeared on their green skin. Harry pulled his ankle 
out of the grindylows grip and swam, as fast as he 
could, occasionally sending more jets of hot water 
over his shoulder at random; every now and then he 
felt one of the grindylows snatch at his foot again, 
and he kicked out, hard; finally, he felt his foot 
connect with a horned skull, and looking back, saw 
the dazed grindylow floating away, cross-eyed, while 
its fellows shook their fists at Harry and sank back 
into the weed. 



Page | 548 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry slowed down a little, slipped his wand back 
inside his robes, and looked around, listening again. 
He turned full circle in the water, the silence pressing 
harder than ever against his eardrums. He knew he 
must be even deeper in the lake now, but nothing was 
moving but the rippling weed. 

“How are you getting on?” 

Harry thought he was having a heart attack. He 
whipped around and saw Moaning Myrtle floating 
hazily in front of him, gazing at him through her 
thick, pearly glasses. 

“Myrtle!” Harry tried to shout — but once again, 
nothing came out of his mouth but a very large 
bubble. Moaning Myrtle actually giggled. 

“You want to try over there!” she said, pointing. “I 
won’t come with you. ... I don’t like them much, they 
always chase me when I get too close. ...” 

Harry gave her the thumbs-up to show his thanks 
and set off once more, careful to swim a bit higher 
over the weed to avoid any more grindylows that 
might be lurking there. 

He swam on for what felt like at least twenty minutes. 
He was passing over vast expanses of black mud now, 
which swirled murkily as he disturbed the water. 
Then, at long last, he heard a snatch of haunting 
mersong. 

“An hour long you’ll have to look, 

And to recover what we took ...” 

Harry swam faster and soon saw a large rock emerge 
out of the muddy water ahead. It had paintings of 

Page | 549 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




merpeople on it; they were carrying spears and 
chasing what looked like the giant squid. Harry swam 
on past the rock, following the mersong. 

"... your time’s half gone, so tarry not 

Lest what you seek stays here to rot. ...” 

A cluster of crude stone dwellings stained with algae 
loomed suddenly out of the gloom on all sides. Here 
and there at the dark windows, Harry saw faces ... 
faces that bore no resemblance at all to the painting 
of the mermaid in the prefects’ bathroom. ... 

The merpeople had grayish skin and long, wild, dark 
green hair. Their eyes were yellow, as were their 
broken teeth, and they wore thick ropes of pebbles 
around their necks. They leered at Harry as he swam 
past; one or two of them emerged from their caves to 
watch him better, their powerful, silver fish tails 
beating the water, spears clutched in their hands. 

Harry sped on, staring around, and soon the 
dwellings became more numerous; there were 
gardens of weed around some of them, and he even 
saw a pet grindylow tied to a stake outside one door. 
Merpeople were emerging on all sides now, watching 
him eagerly, pointing at his webbed hands and gills, 
talking behind their hands to one another. Harry sped 
around a corner and a very strange sight met his 
eyes. 

A whole crowd of merpeople was floating in front of 
the houses that lined what looked like a mer-version 
of a village square. A choir of merpeople was singing 
in the middle, calling the champions toward them, 
and behind them rose a crude sort of statue; a 
gigantic merperson hewn from a boulder. Four people 
were bound tightly to the tail of the stone merperson. 
Page | 550 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Ron was tied between Hermione and Cho Chang. 
There was also a girl who looked no older than eight, 
whose clouds of silvery hair made Harry feel sure that 
she was Fleur Delacour’s sister. All four of them 
appeared to be in a very deep sleep. Their heads were 
lolling onto their shoulders, and fine streams of 
bubbles kept issuing from their mouths. 

Harry sped toward the hostages, half expecting the 
merpeople to lower their spears and charge at him, 
but they did nothing. The ropes of weed tying the 
hostages to the statue were thick, slimy, and very 
strong. For a fleeting second he thought of the knife 
Sirius had bought him for Christmas — locked in his 
trunk in the castle a quarter of a mile away, no use to 
him whatsoever. 

He looked around. Many of the merpeople 
surrounding them were carrying spears. He swam 
swiftly toward a seven-foot-tall merman with a long 
green beard and a choker of shark fangs and tried to 
mime a request to borrow the spear. The merman 
laughed and shook his head. 

“We do not help,” he said in a harsh, croaky voice. 

“Come ON\” Harry said fiercely (but only bubbles 
issued from his mouth), and he tried to pull the spear 
away from the merman, but the merman yanked it 
back, still shaking his head and laughing. 

Harry swirled around, staring about. Something 
sharp ... anything ... 

There were rocks littering the lake bottom. He dived 
and snatched up a particularly jagged one and 
returned to the statue. He began to hack at the ropes 
binding Ron, and after several minutes’ hard work, 
they broke apart. Ron floated, unconscious, a few 
Page | 551 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




inches above the lake bottom, drifting a little in the 
ebb of the water. 

Harry looked around. There was no sign of any of the 
other champions. What were they playing at? Why 
didn’t they hurry up? He turned back to Hermione, 
raised the jagged rock, and began to hack at her 
bindings too — 

At once, several pairs of strong gray hands seized 
him. Half a dozen mermen were pulling him away 
from Hermione, shaking their green-haired heads, 
and laughing. 

“You take your own hostage,” one of them said to 
him. “Leave the others ...” 

“No way!” said Harry furiously — but only two large 
bubbles came out. 

“Your task is to retrieve your own friend . . . leave the 
others ...” 

“She’s my friend too!” Harry yelled, gesturing toward 
Hermione, an enormous silver bubble emerging 
soundlessly from his lips. “And I don’t want them to 
die either!” 

Cho’s head was on Hermione ’s shoulder; the small 
silver-haired girl was ghostly green and pale. Harry 
struggled to fight off the mermen, but they laughed 
harder than ever, holding him back. Harry looked 
wildly around. Where were the other champions? 
Would he have time to take Ron to the surface and 
come back down for Hermione and the others? Would 
he be able to find them again? He looked down at his 
watch to see how much time was left — it had 
stopped working. 



Page | 552 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But then the merpeople around him pointed excitedly 
over his head. Harry looked up and saw Cedric 
swimming toward them. There was an enormous 
bubble around his head, which made his features 
look oddly wide and stretched. 

“Got lost!” he mouthed, looking panic-stricken. “Fleur 
and Krum’re coming now!” 

Feeling enormously relieved, Harry watched Cedric 
pull a knife out of his pocket and cut Cho free. He 
pulled her upward and out of sight. 

Harry looked around, waiting. Where were Fleur and 
Krum? Time was getting short, and according to the 
song, the hostages would be lost after an hour. . . . 

The merpeople started screeching animatedly. Those 
holding Harry loosened their grip, staring behind 
them. Harry turned and saw something monstrous 
cutting through the water toward them: a human 
body in swimming trunks with the head of a shark. . . . 
It was Krum. He appeared to have transfigured 
himself — but badly. 

The shark-man swam straight to Hermione and began 
snapping and biting at her ropes; the trouble was that 
Krum’s new teeth were positioned very awkwardly for 
biting anything smaller than a dolphin, and Harry 
was quite sure that if Krum wasn’t careful, he was 
going to rip Hermione in half. Darting forward, Harry 
hit Krum hard on the shoulder and held up the 
jagged stone. Krum seized it and began to cut 
Hermione free. Within seconds, he had done it; he 
grabbed Hermione around the waist, and without a 
backward glance, began to rise rapidly with her 
toward the surface. 



Page | 553 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Now what? Harry thought desperately. If he could be 
sure that Fleur was coming. ... But still no sign. 

There was nothing to be done except . . . 

He snatched up the stone, which Krum had dropped, 
but the mermen now closed in around Ron and the 
little girl, shaking their heads at him. Harry pulled 
out his wand. 

“Get out of the way!” 

Only bubbles flew out of his mouth, but he had the 
distinct impression that the mermen had understood 
him, because they suddenly stopped laughing. Their 
yellowish eyes were fixed upon Harry’s wand, and 
they looked scared. There might be a lot more of them 
than there were of him, but Harry could tell, by the 
looks on their faces, that they knew no more magic 
than the giant squid did. 

“You’ve got until three!” Harry shouted; a great 
stream of bubbles burst from him, but he held up 
three fingers to make sure they got the message. “One 
...” (he put down a finger) “two ...” (he put down a 
second one) — 

They scattered. Harry darted forward and began to 
hack at the ropes binding the small girl to the statue, 
and at last she was free. He seized the little girl 
around the waist, grabbed the neck of Ron’s robes, 
and kicked off from the bottom. 

It was very slow work. He could no longer use his 
webbed hands to propel himself forward; he worked 
his flippers furiously, but Ron and Fleur’s sister were 
like potato-filled sacks dragging him back down. ... 

He fixed his eyes skyward, though he knew he must 
still be very deep, the water above him was so dark. 

Page | 554 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Merpeople were rising with him. He could see them 
swirling around him with ease, watching him struggle 
through the water. ... Would they pull him back down 
to the depths when the time was up? Did they 
perhaps eat humans? Harry’s legs were seizing up 
with the effort to keep swimming; his shoulders were 
aching horribly with the effort of dragging Ron and 
the girl. ... 

He was drawing breath with extreme difficulty. He 
could feel pain on the sides of his neck again ... he 
was becoming very aware of how wet the water was in 
his mouth . . . yet the darkness was definitely thinning 
now ... he could see daylight above him. ... 

He kicked hard with his flippers and discovered that 
they were nothing more than feet . . . water was 
flooding through his mouth into his lungs ... he was 
starting to feel dizzy, but he knew light and air were 
only ten feet above him ... he had to get there ... he 
had to . . . 

Harry kicked his legs so hard and fast it felt as 
though his muscles were screaming in protest; his 
very brain felt waterlogged, he couldn’t breathe, he 
needed oxygen, he had to keep going, he could not 
stop — 

And then he felt his head break the surface of the 
lake; wonderful, cold, clear air was making his wet 
face sting; he gulped it down, feeling as though he 
had never breathed properly before, and, panting, 
pulled Ron and the little girl up with him. All around 
him, wild, green-haired heads were emerging out of 
the water with him, but they were smiling at him. 

The crowd in the stands was making a great deal of 
noise; shouting and screaming, they all seemed to be 
on their feet; Harry had the impression they thought 

Page | 555 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




that Ron and the little girl might be dead, but they 
were wrong ... both of them had opened their eyes; 
the girl looked scared and confused, but Ron merely 
expelled a great spout of water, blinked in the bright 
light, turned to Harry, and said, “Wet, this, isn’t it?” 
Then he spotted Fleur’s sister. “What did you bring 
her for?” 

“Fleur didn’t turn up, I couldn’t leave her,” Harry 
panted. 

“Harry, you prat,” said Ron, “you didn’t take that song 
thing seriously, did you? Dumbledore wouldn’t have 
let any of us drown!” 

“The song said — ” 

“It was only to make sure you got back inside the time 
limit!” said Ron. “I hope you didn’t waste time down 
there acting the hero!” 

Harry felt both stupid and annoyed. It was all very 
well for Ron; he’d been asleep, he hadn’t felt how 
eerie it was down in the lake, surrounded by spear- 
carrying merpeople who’d looked more than capable 
of murder. 

“C’mon,” Harry said shortly, “help me with her, I don’t 
think she can swim very well.” 

They pulled Fleur’s sister through the water, back 
toward the bank where the judges stood watching, 
twenty merpeople accompanying them like a guard of 
honor, singing their horrible screechy songs. 

Harry could see Madam Pomfrey fussing over 
Hermione, Krum, Cedric, and Cho, all of whom were 
wrapped in thick blankets. Dumbledore and Ludo 
Bagman stood beaming at Harry and Ron from the 

Page | 556 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




bank as they swam nearer, but Percy, who looked 
very white and somehow much younger than usual, 
came splashing out to meet them. Meanwhile 
Madame Maxime was trying to restrain Fleur 
Delacour, who was quite hysterical, fighting tooth and 
nail to return to the water. 

“Gabrielle! Gabrielle\ Is she alive ? Is she ’urt?” 

“She’s fine!” Harry tried to tell her, but he was so 
exhausted he could hardly talk, let alone shout. 

Percy seized Ron and was dragging him back to the 
bank (“Gerroff, Percy, I’m all right!”); Dumbledore and 
Bagman were pulling Harry upright; Fleur had broken 
free of Madame Maxime and was hugging her sister. 

“It was ze grindylows . . . zey attacked me ... oh 
Gabrielle, I thought ... I thought ...” 

“Come here, you,” said Madam Pomfrey. She seized 
Harry and pulled him over to Hermione and the 
others, wrapped him so tightly in a blanket that he 
felt as though he were in a straitjacket, and forced a 
measure of very hot potion down his throat. Steam 
gushed out of his ears. 

“Harry, well done!” Hermione cried. “You did it, you 
found out how all by yourself!” 

“Well — ” said Harry. He would have told her about 
Dobby, but he had just noticed Karkaroff watching 
him. He was the only judge who had not left the table; 
the only judge not showing signs of pleasure and 
relief that Harry, Ron, and Fleur’s sister had got back 
safely. “Yeah, that’s right,” said Harry, raising his 
voice slightly so that Karkaroff could hear him. 



Page | 557 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You haff a water beetle in your hair, Herm-own- 
ninny,” said Krum. Harry had the impression that 
Krum was drawing her attention back onto himself; 
perhaps to remind her that he had just rescued her 
from the lake, but Hermione brushed away the beetle 
impatiently and said, “You’re well outside the time 
limit, though, Harry. . . . Did it take you ages to find 
us?” 

“No ... I found you okay. ...” 

Harry’s feeling of stupidity was growing. Now he was 
out of the water, it seemed perfectly clear that 
Dumbledore’s safety precautions wouldn’t have 
permitted the death of a hostage just because their 
champion hadn’t turned up. Why hadn’t he just 
grabbed Ron and gone? He would have been first 
back. ... Cedric and Krum hadn’t wasted time 
worrying about anyone else; they hadn’t taken the 
mersong seriously. ... 

Dumbledore was crouching at the water’s edge, deep 
in conversation with what seemed to be the chief 
merperson, a particularly wild and ferocious-looking 
female. He was making the same sort of screechy 
noises that the merpeople made when they were 
above water; clearly, Dumbledore could speak 
Mermish. Finally he straightened up, turned to his 
fellow judges, and said, “A conference before we give 
the marks, I think.” 

The judges went into a huddle. Madam Pomfrey had 
gone to rescue Ron from Percy’s clutches; she led him 
over to Harry and the others, gave him a blanket and 
some Pepperup Potion, then went to fetch Fleur and 
her sister. Fleur had many cuts on her face and arms 
and her robes were torn, but she didn’t seem to care, 
nor would she allow Madam Pomfrey to clean them. 



Page | 558 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Look after Gabrielle,” she told her, and then she 
turned to Harry. “You saved ’er,” she said 
breathlessly. “Even though she was not your ’ostage.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, who was now heartily wishing 
he’d left all three girls tied to the statue. 

Fleur bent down, kissed Harry twice on each cheek 
(he felt his face burn and wouldn’t have been 
surprised if steam was coming out of his ears again), 
then said to Ron, “And you too — you ’elped — ” 

“Yeah,” said Ron, looking extremely hopeful, “yeah, a 
bit — ” 



Fleur swooped down on him too and kissed him. 
Hermione looked simply furious, but just then, Ludo 
Bagman’s magically magnified voice boomed out 
beside them, making them all jump, and causing the 
crowd in the stands to go very quiet. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached our decision. 
Merchieftainess Murcus has told us exactly what 
happened at the bottom of the lake, and we have 
therefore decided to award marks out of fifty for each 
of the champions, as follows. ... 

“Fleur Delacour, though she demonstrated excellent 
use of the Bubble-Head Charm, was attacked by 
grindylows as she approached her goal, and failed to 
retrieve her hostage. We award her twenty-five 
points.” 

Applause from the stands. 

“I deserved zero,” said Fleur throatily, shaking her 
magnificent head. 



Page | 559 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Cedric Diggory, who also used the Bubble-Head 
Charm, was first to return with his hostage, though 
he returned one minute outside the time limit of an 
hour.” Enormous cheers from the Hufflepuffs in the 
crowd; Harry saw Cho give Cedric a glowing look. “We 
therefore award him forty-seven points.” 

Harry’s heart sank. If Cedric had been outside the 
time limit, he most certainly had been. 

“Viktor Krum used an incomplete form of 
Transfiguration, which was nevertheless effective, and 
was second to return with his hostage. We award him 
forty points.” 

Karkaroff clapped particularly hard, looking very 
superior. 

“Harry Potter used gillyweed to great effect,” Bagman 
continued. “He returned last, and well outside the 
time limit of an hour. However, the Merchieftainess 
informs us that Mr. Potter was first to reach the 
hostages, and that the delay in his return was due to 
his determination to return all hostages to safety, not 
merely his own.” 

Ron and Hermione both gave Harry half-exasperated, 
half-commiserating looks. 

“Most of the judges,” and here, Bagman gave 
Karkaroff a very nasty look, “feel that this shows 
moral fiber and merits full marks. However ... Mr. 
Potter’s score is forty-five points.” 

Harry’s stomach leapt — he was now tying for first 
place with Cedric. Ron and Hermione, caught by 
surprise, stared at Harry, then laughed and started 
applauding hard with the rest of the crowd. 



Page | 560 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“There you go, Harry!” Ron shouted over the noise. 
“You weren’t being thick after all — you were showing 
moral fiber!” 

Fleur was clapping very hard too, but Krum didn’t 
look happy at all. He attempted to engage Hermione 
in conversation again, but she was too busy cheering 
Harry to listen. 

“The third and final task will take place at dusk on 
the twenty-fourth of June,” continued Bagman. “The 
champions will be notified of what is coming precisely 
one month beforehand. Thank you all for your 
support of the champions.” 

It was over, Harry thought dazedly, as Madam 
Pomfrey began herding the champions and hostages 
back to the castle to get into dry clothes ... it was 
over, he had got through ... he didn’t have to worry 
about anything now until June the twenty-fourth. ... 

Next time he was in Hogsmeade, Harry decided as he 
walked back up the stone steps into the castle, he 
was going to buy Dobby a pair of socks for every day 
of the year. 



Page | 561 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






PADFOOT RETURNS 

One of the best things about the aftermath of the 
second task was that everybody was very keen to hear 
details of what had happened down in the lake, which 
meant that Ron was getting to share Harry’s limelight 
for once. Harry noticed that Ron’s version of events 
changed subtly with every retelling. At first, he gave 
what seemed to be the truth; it tallied with 
Hermione’s story, anyway — Dumbledore had put all 
the hostages into a bewitched sleep in Professor 
McGonagall’s office, first assuring them that they 
would be quite safe, and would awake when they were 
back above the water. One week later, however, Ron 
was telling a thrilling tale of kidnap in which he 
struggled single-handedly against fifty heavily armed 
merpeople who had to beat him into submission 
before tying him up. 

“But I had my wand hidden up my sleeve,” he assured 
Padma Patil, who seemed to be a lot keener on Ron 
now that he was getting so much attention and was 
making a point of talking to him every time they 



Page | 562 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



passed in the corridors. “I could’ve taken those mer- 
idiots any time I wanted.” 

“What were you going to do, snore at them?” said 
Hermione waspishly. People had been teasing her so 
much about being the thing that Viktor Krum would 
