
But James merely laughed, permitted his mother to 
kiss him, gave his father a fleeting hug, then leapt 
onto the rapidly filling train. They saw him wave, then 
sprint away up the corridor to find his friends. 

“Thestrals are nothing to worry about,” Harry told 
Albus. “They’re gentle things, there’s nothing scary 
about them. Anyway, you won’t be going up to school 
in the carriages, you’ll be going in the boats.” 



Page | 854 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ginny kissed Albus good-bye. 

“See you at Christmas.” 

“Bye, Al,” said Harry as his son hugged him. “Don’t 
forget Hagrid’s invited you to tea next Friday. Don’t 
mess with Peeves. Don’t duel anyone till you’ve 
learned how. And don’t let James wind you up.” 

“What if I’m in Slytherin?” 

The whisper was for his father alone, and Harry knew 
that only the moment of departure could have forced 
Albus to reveal how great and sincere that fear was. 

Harry crouched down so that Albus ’s face was slightly 
above his own. Alone of Harry’s three children, Albus 
had inherited Lily’s eyes. 

“Albus Severus,” Harry said quietly, so that nobody 
but Ginny could hear, and she was tactful enough to 
pretend to be waving to Rose, who was now on the 
train, “you were named for two headmasters of 
Hogwarts. One of them was a Slytherin and he was 
probably the bravest man I ever knew.” 

“But just say — ” 

“ — then Slytherin House will have gained an excellent 
student, won’t it? It doesn’t matter to us, Al. But if it 
matters to you, you’ll be able to choose Gryffindor 
over Slytherin. The Sorting Hat takes your choice into 
account.” 

“Really?” 

“It did for me,” said Harry. 



Page | 855 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He had never told any of his children that before, and 
he saw the wonder in Albus’s face when he said it. 

But now the doors were slamming all along the 
scarlet train, and the blurred outlines of parents were 
swarming forward for final kisses, last-minute 
reminders. Albus jumped into the carriage and Ginny 
closed the door behind him. Students were hanging 
from the windows nearest them. A great number of 
faces, both on the train and off, seemed to be turned 
toward Harry. 

“Why are they all staring?” demanded Albus as he 
and Rose craned around to look at the other 
students. 

“Don’t let it worry you,” said Ron. “It’s me. I’m 
extremely famous.” 

Albus, Rose, Hugo, and Lily laughed. The train began 
to move, and Harry walked alongside it, watching his 
son’s thin face, already ablaze with excitement. Harry 
kept smiling and waving, even though it was like a 
little bereavement, watching his son glide away from 
him. ... 

The last trace of steam evaporated in the autumn air. 
The train rounded a corner. Harry’s hand was still 
raised in farewell. 

“He’ll be all right,” murmured Ginny. 

As Harry looked at her, he lowered his hand 
absentmindedly and touched the lightning scar on his 
forehead. 

“I know he will.” 

The scar had not pained Harry for nineteen years. All 
was well. 

Page | 856 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




