I grab Pollux's arm. "Forget the mission. What's the
quickest way aboveground?"
There's no time for checking the Holo. We follow Pollux
for about ten yards along the Transfer and go through a
doorway. I'm aware of tile changing to concrete, of crawling
through a tight, stinking pipe onto a ledge about a foot
wide. We're in the main sewer. A yard below, a poisonous
brew of human waste, garbage, and chemical runoff
bubbles by us. Parts of the surface are on fire, others emit
evil-looking clouds of vapor. One look tells you that if you fall
in, you're never coming out. Moving as quickly as we dare
on the slippery ledge, we make our way to a narrow bridge
and cross it. In an alcove at the far side, Pollux smacks a
ladder with his hand and points up the shaft. This is it. Our
way out.
A quick glance at our party tells me something's off.
"Wait! Where are Jackson and Leeg One?"
"They stayed at the Grinder to hold the mutts back,"
says Homes.
"What?" I'm lunging back for the bridge, willing to leave
no one to those monsters, when he yanks me back.
"Don't waste their lives, Katniss. It's too late for them.
Look!" Homes nods to the pipe, where the mutts are
slithering onto the ledge.
"Stand back!" Gale shouts. With his explosive-tipped
arrows, he rips the far side of the bridge from its
foundation. The rest sinks into the bubbles, just as the mutts
reach it.
For the first time, I get a good look at them. A mix of
human and lizard and who knows what else. White, tight
reptilian skin smeared with gore, clawed hands and feet,
their faces a mess of conflicting features. Hissing, shrieking
my name now, as their bodies contort in rage. Lashing out
with tails and claws, taking huge chunks of one another or
their own bodies with wide, lathered mouths, driven mad by
their need to destroy me. My scent must be as evocative to
them as theirs is to me. More so, because despite its
toxicity, the mutts begin to throw themselves into the foul
sewer.
Along our bank, everyone opens fire. I choose my
arrows without discretion, sending arrowheads, fire,
explosives into the mutts' bodies. They're mortal, but only
just. No natural thing could keep coming with two dozen
bullets in it. Yes, we can eventually kill them, only there are
so many, an endless supply pouring from the pipe, not even
hesitating to take to the sewage.
But it's not their numbers that make my hands shake
so.
No mutt is good. All are meant to damage you. Some
take your life, like the monkeys. Others your reason, like the
tracker jackers. However, the true atrocities, the most
frightening, incorporate a perverse psychological twist
designed to terrify the victim. The sight of the wolf mutts
with the dead tributes' eyes. The sound of the jabberjays
replicating Prim's tortured screams. The smell of Snow's
roses mixed with the victims' blood. Carried across the
sewer. Cutting through even this foulness. Making my heart
run wild, my skin turn to ice, my lungs unable to suck air. It's
as if Snow's breathing right in my face, telling me it's time to
die.
The others are shouting at me, but I can't seem to
respond. Strong arms lift me as I blast the head off a mutt
whose claws have just grazed my ankle. I'm slammed into
the ladder. Hands shoved against the rungs. Ordered to
climb. My wooden, puppet limbs obey. Movement slowly
brings me back to my senses. I detect one person above
me. Pollux. Peeta and Cressida are below. We reach a
platform. Switch to a second ladder. Rungs slick with sweat
and mildew. At the next platform, my head has cleared and
the reality of what's happened hits me. I begin frantically
pulling people up off the ladder. Peeta. Cressida. That's it.
What have I done? What have I abandoned the others
to? I'm scrambling back down the ladder when one of my
boots kicks someone.
"Climb!" Gale barks at me. I'm back up, hauling him in,
peering into the gloom for more. "No." Gale turns my face
to him and shakes his head. Uniform shredded. Gaping
wound in the side of his neck.
There's a human cry from below. "Someone's still
alive," I plead.
"No, Katniss. They're not coming," says Gale. "Only the
mutts are."
Unable to accept it, I shine the light from Cressida's
gun down the shaft. Far below, I can just make out Finnick,
struggling to hang on as three mutts tear at him. As one
yanks back his head to take the death bite, something
bizarre happens. It's as if I'm Finnick, watching images of
my life flash by. The mast of a boat, a silver parachute,
Mags laughing, a pink sky, Beetee's trident, Annie in her
wedding dress, waves breaking over rocks. Then it's over.
I slide the Holo from my belt and choke out "nightlock,
nightlock, nightlock." Release it. Hunch against the wall with
the others as the explosion rocks the platform and bits of
mutt and human flesh shoot out of the pipe and shower us.
There's a clank as Pollux slams a cover over the pipe
and locks it in place. Pollux, Gale, Cressida, Peeta, and
me. We're all that's left. Later, the human feelings will come.
Now I'm conscious only of an animal need to keep the
remnants of our band alive. "We can't stop here."
Someone comes up with a bandage. We tie it around
Gale's neck. Get him to his feet. Only one figure stays
huddled against the wall. "Peeta," I say. There's no
response. Has he blacked out? I crouch in front of him,
pulling his cuffed hands from his face. "Peeta?" His eyes
are like black pools, the pupils dilated so that the blue
irises have all but vanished. The muscles in his wrists are
hard as metal.
"Leave me," he whispers. "I can't hang on."
"Yes. You can!" I tell him.
Peeta shakes his head. "I'm losing it. I'll go mad. Like
them."
Like the mutts. Like a rabid beast bent on ripping my
throat out. And here, finally here in this place, in these
circumstances, I will really have to kill him. And Snow will
win. Hot, bitter hatred courses through me. Snow has won
too much already today.
It's a long shot, it's suicide maybe, but I do the only
thing I can think of. I lean in and kiss Peeta full on the mouth.
His whole body starts shuddering, but I keep my lips
pressed to his until I have to come up for air. My hands
slide up his wrists to clasp his. "Don't let him take you from
me."
Peeta's panting hard as he fights the nightmares
raging in his head. "No. I don't want to..."
I clench his hands to the point of pain. "Stay with me."
His pupils contract to pinpoints, dilate again rapidly,
and then return to something resembling normalcy.
"Always," he murmurs.
I help Peeta up and address Pollux. "How far to the
street?" He indicates it's just above us. I climb the last
ladder and push open the lid to someone's utility room. I'm
rising to my feet when a woman throws open the door. She
wears a bright turquoise silk robe embroidered with exotic
birds. Her magenta hair's fluffed up like a cloud and
decorated with gilded butterflies. Grease from the halfeaten
sausage she's holding smears her lipstick. The
expression on her face says she recognizes me. She
opens her mouth to call for help.
Without hesitation, I shoot her through the heart.
23
Who the woman was calling to remains a mystery,
because after searching the apartment, we find she was
alone. Perhaps her cry was meant for a nearby neighbor, or
was simply an expression of fear. At any rate, there's no
one else to hear her.
This apartment would be a classy place to hole up in
for a while, but that's a luxury we can't afford. "How long do
you think we have before they figure out some of us
could've survived?" I ask.
"I think they could be here anytime," Gale answers.
"They knew we were heading for the streets. Probably the
explosion will throw them for a few minutes, then they'll start
looking for our exit point."
I go to a window that overlooks the street, and when I
peek through the blinds, I'm not faced with Peacekeepers
but with a bundled crowd of people going about their
business. During our underground journey, we have left the
evacuated zones far behind and surfaced in a busy section
of the Capitol. This crowd offers our only chance of escape.
I don't have a Holo, but I have Cressida. She joins me at the
window, confirms she knows our location, and gives me the
good news that we aren't many blocks from the president's
mansion.
One glance at my companions tells me this is no time
for a stealth attack on Snow. Gale's still losing blood from
the neck wound, which we haven't even cleaned. Peeta's
sitting on a velvet sofa with his teeth clamped down on a
pillow, either fighting off madness or containing a scream.
Pollux weeps against the mantel of an ornate fireplace.
Cressida stands determinedly at my side, but she's so pale
her lips are bloodless. I'm running on hate. When the energy
for that ebbs, I'll be worthless.
"Let's check her closets," I say.
In one bedroom we find hundreds of the woman's
outfits, coats, pairs of shoes, a rainbow of wigs, enough
makeup to paint a house. In a bedroom across the hall,
there's a similar selection for men. Perhaps they belong to
her husband. Perhaps to a lover who had the good luck to
be out this morning.
I call the others to dress. At the sight of Peeta's bloody
wrists, I dig in my pocket for the handcuff key, but he jerks
away from me.
"No," he says. "Don't. They help hold me together."
"You might need your hands," says Gale.
"When I feel myself slipping, I dig my wrists into them,
and the pain helps me focus," says Peeta. I let them be.
Fortunately, it's cold out, so we can conceal most of
our uniforms and weapons under flowing coats and cloaks.
We hang our boots around our necks by their laces and
hide them, pull on silly shoes to replace them. The real
challenge, of course, is our faces. Cressida and Pollux run
the risk of being recognized by acquaintances, Gale could
be familiar from the propos and news, and Peeta and I are
known by every citizen of Panem. We hastily help one
another apply thick layers of makeup, pull on wigs and
sunglasses. Cressida wraps scarves over Peeta's and my
mouths and noses.
I can feel the clock ticking away, but stop for just a few
moments to stuff pockets with food and first-aid supplies.
"Stay together," I say at the front door. Then we march right
into the street. Snow flurries have begun to fall. Agitated
people swirl around us, speaking of rebels and hunger and
me in their affected Capitol accents. We cross the street,
pass a few more apartments. Just as we turn the corner,
three dozen Peacekeepers sweep past us. We hop out of
their way, as the real citizens do, wait until the crowd returns
to its normal flow, and keep moving. "Cressida," I whisper.
"Can you think of anywhere?"
"I'm trying," she says.
We cover another block, and the sirens begin. Through
an apartment window, I see an emergency report and
pictures of our faces flashing. They haven't identified who in
our party died yet, because I see Castor and Finnick
among the photos. Soon every passerby will be as
dangerous as a Peacekeeper. "Cressida?"
"There's one place. It's not ideal. But we can try it," she
says. We follow her a few more blocks and turn through a
gate into what looks like a private residence. It's some kind
of shortcut, though, because after walking through a
manicured garden, we come out of another gate onto a
small back street that connects two main avenues. There
are a few poky stores--one that buys used goods, another
that sells fake jewelry. Only a couple of people are around,
and they pay no attention to us. Cressida begins to babble
in a high-pitched voice about fur undergarments, how
essential they are during the cold months. "Wait until you
see the prices! Believe me, it's half what you pay on the
avenues!"
We stop before a grimy storefront filled with
mannequins in furry underwear. The place doesn't even
look open, but Cressida pushes through the front door,
setting off a dissonant chiming. Inside the dim, narrow shop
lined with racks of merchandise, the smell of pelts fills my
nose. Business must be slow, since we're the only
customers. Cressida heads straight for a hunched figure
sitting in the back. I follow, trailing my fingers through the
soft garments as we go.
Behind a counter sits the strangest person I've ever
seen. She's an extreme example of surgical enhancement
gone wrong, for surely not even in the Capitol could they
find this face attractive. The skin has been pulled back
tightly and tattooed with black and gold stripes. The nose
has been flattened until it barely exists. I've seen cat
whiskers on people in the Capitol before, but none so long.
The result is a grotesque, semi-feline mask, which now
squints at us distrustfully.
Cressida takes off her wig, revealing her vines.
"Tigris," she says. "We need help."
Tigris. Deep in my brain, the name rings a bell. She
was a fixture--a younger, less disturbing version of herself--
in the earliest Hunger Games I can remember. A stylist, I
think. I don't remember for which district. Not 12. Then she
must have had one operation too many and crossed the
line into repellence.
So this is where stylists go when they've outlived their
use. To sad theme underwear shops where they wait for
death. Out of the public eye.
I stare at her face, wondering if her parents actually
named her Tigris, inspiring her mutilation, or if she chose
the style and changed her name to match her stripes.
"Plutarch said you could be trusted," adds Cressida.
Great, she's one of Plutarch's people. So if her first
move isn't to turn us in to the Capitol, it will be to notify
Plutarch, and by extension Coin, of our whereabouts. No,
Tigris's shop is not ideal, but it's all we have at the moment.
If she'll even help us. She's peering between an old
television on her counter and us, as if trying to place us. To
help her, I pull down my scarf, remove my wig, and step
closer so that the light of the screen falls on my face.
Tigris gives a low growl, not unlike one Buttercup might
greet me with. She slinks down off her stool and
disappears behind a rack of fur-lined leggings. There's a
sound of sliding, and then her hand emerges and waves us
forward. Cressida looks at me, as if to ask Are you sure?
But what choice do we have? Returning to the streets under
these conditions guarantees our capture or death. I push
around the furs and find Tigris has slid back a panel at the
base of the wall. Behind it seems to be the top of a steep
stone stairway. She gestures for me to enter.
Everything about the situation screams trap. I have a
moment of panic and find myself turning to Tigris, searching
those tawny eyes. Why is she doing this? She's no Cinna,
someone willing to sacrifice herself for others. This woman
was the embodiment of Capitol shallowness. She was one
of the stars of the Hunger Games until...until she wasn't. So
is that it, then? Bitterness? Hatred? Revenge? Actually, I'm
comforted by the idea. A need for revenge can burn long
and hot. Especially if every glance in a mirror reinforces it.
"Did Snow ban you from the Games?" I ask. She just
stares back at me. Somewhere her tiger tail flicks with
displeasure. "Because I'm going to kill him, you know." Her
mouth spreads into what I take for a smile. Reassured that
this isn't complete madness, I crawl through the space.
About halfway down the steps, my face runs into a
hanging chain and I pull it, illuminating the hideout with a
flickering fluorescent bulb. It's a small cellar with no doors or
windows. Shallow and wide. Probably just a strip between
two real basements. A place whose existence could go
unnoticed unless you had a very keen eye for dimensions.
It's cold and dank, with piles of pelts that I'm guessing
haven't seen the light of day in years. Unless Tigris gives us
up, I don't believe anyone will find us here. By the time I
reach the concrete floor, my companions are on the steps.
The panel slides back in place. I hear the underwear rack
being adjusted on squeaky wheels. Tigris padding back to
her stool. We have been swallowed up by her store.
Just in time, too, because Gale looks on the verge of
collapse. We make a bed of pelts, strip off his layers of
weapons, and help him onto his back. At the end of the
cellar, there's a faucet about a foot from the floor with a
drain under it. I turn the tap and, after much sputtering and a
lot of rust, clear water begins to flow. We clean Gale's neck
wound and I realize bandages won't be enough. He's going
to need a few stitches. There's a needle and sterile thread
in the first-aid supplies, but what we lack is a healer. It
crosses my mind to enlist Tigris. As a stylist, she must
know how to work a needle. But that would leave no one
manning the shop, and she's doing enough already. I
accept that I'm probably the most qualified for the job, grit
my teeth, and put in a row of jagged sutures. It's not pretty
but it's functional. I smear it with medicine and wrap it up.
Give him some painkillers. "You can rest now. It's safe
here," I tell him. He goes out like a light.
While Cressida and Pollux make fur nests for each of
us, I attend to Peeta's wrists. Gently rinsing away the blood,
putting on an antiseptic, and bandaging them beneath the
cuffs. "You've got to keep them clean, otherwise the
infection could spread and--"
"I know what blood poisoning is, Katniss," says Peeta.
"Even if my mother isn't a healer."
I'm jolted back in time, to another wound, another set of
bandages. "You said that same thing to me in the first
Hunger Games. Real or not real?"
"Real," he says. "And you risked your life getting the
medicine that saved me?"
"Real." I shrug. "You were the reason I was alive to do
it."
"Was I?" The comment throws him into confusion.
Some shiny memory must be fighting for his attention,
because his body tenses and his newly bandaged wrists
strain against the metal cuffs. Then all the energy saps from
his body. "I'm so tired, Katniss."
"Go to sleep," I say. He won't until I've rearranged his
handcuffs and shackled him to one of the stair supports. It
can't be comfortable, lying there with his arms above his
head. But in a few minutes, he drifts off, too.
Cressida and Pollux have made beds for us, arranged
our food and medical supplies, and now ask what I want to
do about setting up a guard. I look at Gale's pallor, Peeta's
restraints. Pollux hasn't slept for days, and Cressida and I
only napped for a few hours. If a troop of Peacekeepers
were to come through that door, we'd be trapped like rats.
We are completely at the mercy of a decrepit tiger-woman
with what I can only hope is an all-consuming passion for
Snow's death.
"I don't honestly think there's any point in setting up a
guard. Let's just try to get some sleep," I say. They nod
numbly, and we all burrow into our pelts. The fire inside me
has flickered out, and with it my strength. I surrender to the
soft, musty fur and oblivion.
I have only one dream I remember. A long and
wearying thing in which I'm trying to get to District 12. The
home I'm seeking is intact, the people alive. Effie Trinket,
conspicuous in a bright pink wig and tailored outfit, travels
with me. I keep trying to ditch her in places, but she
inexplicably reappears at my side, insisting that as my
escort she's responsible for my staying on schedule. Only
the schedule is constantly shifting, derailed by our lack of a
stamp from an official or delayed when Effie breaks one of
her high heels. We camp for days on a bench in a gray
station in District 7, awaiting a train that never comes.
When I wake, somehow I feel even more drained by this
than my usual nighttime forays into blood and terror.
Cressida, the only person awake, tells me it's late
afternoon. I eat a can of beef stew and wash it down with a
lot of water. Then I lean against the cellar wall, retracing the
events of the last day. Moving death by death. Counting
them up on my fingers. One, two--Mitchell and Boggs lost
on the block. Three--Messalla melted by the pod. Four, five-
-Leeg 1 and Jackson sacrificing themselves at the Meat
Grinder. Six, seven, eight--Castor, Homes, and Finnick
being decapitated by the rose-scented lizard mutts. Eight
dead in twenty-four hours. I know it happened, and yet it
doesn't seem real. Surely, Castor is asleep under that pile
of furs, Finnick will come bounding down the steps in a
minute, Boggs will tell me his plan for our escape.
To believe them dead is to accept I killed them. Okay,
maybe not Mitchell and Boggs--they died on an actual
assignment. But the others lost their lives defending me on
a mission I fabricated. My plot to assassinate Snow seems
so stupid now. So stupid as I sit shivering here in this cellar,
tallying up our losses, fingering the tassels on the silver
knee-high boots I stole from the woman's home. Oh, yeah--I
forgot about that. I killed her, too. I'm taking out unarmed
citizens now.
I think it's time I give myself up.
When everyone finally awakens, I confess. How I lied
about the mission, how I jeopardized everyone in pursuit of
revenge. There's a long silence after I finish. Then Gale
says, "Katniss, we all knew you were lying about Coin
sending you to assassinate Snow."
"You knew, maybe. The soldiers from Thirteen didn't," I
reply."
Do you really think Jackson believed you had orders
from Coin?" Cressida asks. "Of course she didn't. But she
trusted Boggs, and he'd clearly wanted you to go on."
"I never even told Boggs what I planned to do," I say.
"You told everyone in Command!" Gale says. "It was
one of your conditions for being the Mockingjay. 'I kill
Snow.'"
Those seem like two disconnected things. Negotiating
with Coin for the privilege of executing Snow after the war
and this unauthorized flight through the Capitol. "But not like
this," I say. "It's been a complete disaster."
"I think it would be considered a highly successful
mission," says Gale. "We've infiltrated the enemy camp,
showing that the Capitol's defenses can be breached.
We've managed to get footage of ourselves all over the
Capitol's news. We've thrown the whole city into chaos
trying to find us."
"Trust me, Plutarch's thrilled," Cressida adds.
"That's because Plutarch doesn't care who dies," I say.
"Not as long as his Games are a success."
Cressida and Gale go round and round trying to
convince me. Pollux nods at their words to back them up.
Only Peeta doesn't offer an opinion.
"What do you think, Peeta?" I finally ask him.
"I think...you still have no idea. The effect you can
have." He slides his cuffs up the support and pushes
himself to a sitting position. "None of the people we lost
were idiots. They knew what they were doing. They followed
you because they believed you really could kill Snow."
I don't know why his voice reaches me when no one
else's can. But if he's right, and I think he is, I owe the others
a debt that can only be repaid in one way. I pull my paper
map from a pocket in my uniform and spread it out on the
floor with new resolve. "Where are we, Cressida?"
Tigris's shop sits about five blocks from the City Circle
and Snow's mansion. We're in easy walking distance
through a zone in which the pods are deactivated for the
residents' safety. We have disguises that, perhaps with
some embellishments from Tigris's furry stock, could get us
safely there. But then what? The mansion's sure to be
heavily guarded, under round-the-clock camera
surveillance, and laced with pods that could become live at
the flick of a switch.
"What we need is to get him out in the open," Gale
says to me. "Then one of us could pick him off."
"Does he ever appear in public anymore?" asks
Peeta.
"I don't think so," says Cressida. "At least in all the
recent speeches I've seen, he's been in the mansion. Even
before the rebels got here. I imagine he became more
vigilant after Finnick aired his crimes."
That's right. It's not just the Tigrises of the Capitol who
hate Snow now, but a web of people who know what he did
to their friends and families. It would have to be something
bordering on miraculous to lure him out. Something like...
"I bet he'd come out for me," I say. "If I were captured.
He'd want that as public as possible. He'd want my
execution on his front steps." I let this sink in. "Then Gale
could shoot him from the audience."
"No." Peeta shakes his head. "There are too many
alternative endings to that plan. Snow might decide to keep
you and torture information out of you. Or have you
executed publicly without being present. Or kill you inside
the mansion and display your body out front."
"Gale?" I say.
"It seems like an extreme solution to jump to
immediately," he says. "Maybe if all else fails. Let's keep
thinking."
In the quiet that follows, we hear Tigris's soft footfall
overhead. It must be closing time. She's locking up,
fastening the shutters maybe. A few minutes later, the panel
at the top of the stairs slides open.
"Come up," says a gravelly voice. "I have some food
for you." It's the first time she's talked since we arrived.
Whether it's natural or from years of practice, I don't know,
but there's something in her manner of speaking that
suggests a cat's purr.
As we climb the stairs, Cressida asks, "Did you
contact Plutarch, Tigris?"
"No way to." Tigris shrugs. "He'll figure out you're in a
safe house. Don't worry."
Worry? I feel immensely relieved by the news that I
won't be given--and have to ignore--direct orders from 13.
Or make up some viable defense for the decisions I've
made over the last couple of days.
In the shop, the counter holds some stale hunks of
bread, a wedge of moldy cheese, and half a bottle of
mustard. It reminds me that not everyone in the Capitol has
full stomachs these days. I feel obliged to tell Tigris about
our remaining food supplies, but she waves my objections
away. "I eat next to nothing," she says. "And then, only raw
meat." This seems a little too in character, but I don't
question it. I just scrape the mold off the cheese and divide
up the food among the rest of us.
While we eat, we watch the latest Capitol news
coverage. The government has the rebel survivors
narrowed down to the five of us. Huge bounties are offered
for information leading to our capture. They emphasize how
dangerous we are. Show us exchanging gunfire with the
Peacekeepers, although not the mutts ripping off their
heads. Do a tragic tribute to the woman lying where we left
her, with my arrow still in her heart. Someone has redone
her makeup for the cameras.
The rebels let the Capitol broadcast run on
uninterrupted. "Have the rebels made a statement today?" I
ask Tigris. She shakes her head. "I doubt Coin knows what
to do with me now that I'm still alive."
Tigris gives a throaty cackle. "No one knows what to
do with you, girlie." Then she makes me take a pair of the
fur leggings even though I can't pay her for them. It's the
kind of gift you have to accept. And anyway, it's cold in that
cellar.Downstairs after supper, we continue to rack our
brains for a plan. Nothing good comes up, but we do agree
that we can no longer go out as a group of five and that we
should try to infiltrate the president's mansion before I turn
myself into bait. I consent to that second point to avoid
further argument. If I do decide to give myself up, it won't
require anyone else's permission or participation.
We change bandages, handcuff Peeta back to his
support, and settle down to sleep. A few hours later, I slip
back into consciousness and become aware of a quiet
conversation. Peeta and Gale. I can't stop myself from
eavesdropping.
"Thanks for the water," Peeta says.
"No problem," Gale replies. "I wake up ten times a
night anyway."
"To make sure Katniss is still here?" asks Peeta.
"Something like that," Gale admits.
There's a long pause before Peeta speaks again.
"That was funny, what Tigris said. About no one knowing
what to do with her."
"Well, we never have," Gale says.
They both laugh. It's so strange to hear them talking
like this. Almost like friends. Which they're not. Never have
been. Although they're not exactly enemies.
"She loves you, you know," says Peeta. "She as good
as told me after they whipped you."
"Don't believe it," Gale answers. "The way she kissed
you in the Quarter Quell...well, she never kissed me like
that."
"It was just part of the show," Peeta tells him, although
there's an edge of doubt in his voice.
"No, you won her over. Gave up everything for her.
Maybe that's the only way to convince her you love her."
There's a long pause. "I should have volunteered to take
your place in the first Games. Protected her then."
"You couldn't," says Peeta. "She'd never have forgiven
you. You had to take care of her family. They matter more to
her than her life."
"Well, it won't be an issue much longer. I think it's
unlikely all three of us will be alive at the end of the war. And
if we are, I guess it's Katniss's problem. Who to choose."
Gale yawns. "We should get some sleep."
"Yeah." I hear Peeta's handcuffs slide down the
support as he settles in. "I wonder how she'll make up her
mind."
"Oh, that I do know." I can just catch Gale's last words
through the layer of fur. "Katniss will pick whoever she
thinks she can't survive without."
24
A chill runs through me. Am I really that cold and
calculating? Gale didn't say, "Katniss will pick whoever it
will break her heart to give up," or even "whoever she can't
live without." Those would have implied I was motivated by
a kind of passion. But my best friend predicts I will choose
the person who I think I "can't survive without." There's not
the least indication that love, or desire, or even
compatibility will sway me. I'll just conduct an unfeeling
assessment of what my potential mates can offer me. As if
in the end, it will be the question of whether a baker or a
hunter will extend my longevity the most. It's a horrible thing
for Gale to say, for Peeta not to refute. Especially when
every emotion I have has been taken and exploited by the
Capitol or the rebels. At the moment, the choice would be
simple. I can survive just fine without either of them.
In the morning, I have no time or energy to nurse
wounded feelings. During a predawn breakfast of liver pate
and fig cookies, we gather around Tigris's television for
one of Beetee's break-ins. There's been a new
development in the war. Apparently inspired by the black
wave, some enterprising rebel commander came up with
the idea of confiscating people's abandoned automobiles
and sending them unmanned down the streets. The cars
don't trigger every pod, but they certainly get the majority. At
around four in the morning, the rebels began carving three
separate paths--simply referred to as the A, B, and C lines-
-to the Capitol's heart. As a result, they've secured block
after block with very few casualties.
"This can't last," says Gale. "In fact I'm surprised
they've kept it going so long. The Capitol will adjust by
deactivating specific pods and then manually triggering
them when their targets come in range." Almost within
minutes of his prediction, we see this very thing happen onscreen.
A squad sends a car down a block, setting off four
pods. All seems well. Three scouts follow and make it
safely to the end of the street. But when a group of twenty
rebel soldiers follow them, they're blown to bits by a row of
potted rosebushes in front of a flower shop.
"I bet it's killing Plutarch not to be in the control room
on this one," says Peeta.
Beetee gives the broadcast back to the Capitol, where
a grim-faced reporter announces the blocks that civilians
are to evacuate. Between her update and the previous
story, I am able to mark my paper map to show the relative
positions of the opposing armies.
I hear scuffling out on the street, move to the windows,
and peek out a crack in the shutters. In the early morning
light, I see a bizarre spectacle. Refugees from the now
occupied blocks are streaming toward the Capitol's center.
The most panicked are wearing nothing but nightgowns
and slippers, while the more prepared are heavily bundled
in layers of clothes. They carry everything from lapdogs to
jewelry boxes to potted plants. One man in a fluffy robe
holds only an overripe banana. Confused, sleepy children
stumble along after their parents, most either too stunned or
too baffled to cry. Bits of them flash by my line of vision. A
pair of wide brown eyes. An arm clutching a favorite doll. A
pair of bare feet, bluish in the cold, catching on the uneven
paving stones of the alley. Seeing them reminds me of the
children of 12 who died fleeing the firebombs. I leave the
window.
Tigris offers to be our spy for the day since she's the
only one of us without a bounty on her head. After securing
us downstairs, she goes out into the Capitol to pick up any
helpful information.
Down in the cellar I pace back and forth, driving the
others crazy. Something tells me that not taking advantage
of the flood of refugees is a mistake. What better cover
could we have? On the other hand, every displaced person
milling about on the streets means another pair of eyes
looking for the five rebels on the loose. Then again, what do
we gain by staying here? All we're really doing is depleting
our small cache of food and waiting for...what? The rebels
to take the Capitol? It could be weeks before that happens,
and I'm not so sure what I'd do if they did. Not run out and
greet them. Coin would have me whisked back to 13
before I could say "nightlock, nightlock, nightlock." I did not
come all this way, and lose all those people, to turn myself
over to that woman. I kill Snow. Besides, there would be an
awful lot of things I couldn't easily explain about the last few
days. Several of which, if they came to light, would probably
blow my deal for the victors' immunity right out of the water.
And forget about me, I've got a feeling some of the others
are going to need it. Like Peeta. Who, no matter how you
spin it, can be seen on tape tossing Mitchell into that net
pod. I can imagine what Coin's war tribunal will do with that.
By late afternoon, we're beginning to get uneasy about
Tigris's long absence. Talk turns to the possibilities that she
has been apprehended and arrested, turned us in
voluntarily, or simply been injured in the wave of refugees.
But around six o'clock we hear her return. There's some
shuffling around upstairs, then she opens the panel. The
wonderful smell of frying meat fills the air. Tigris has
prepared us a hash of chopped ham and potatoes. It's the
first hot food we've had in days, and as I wait for her to fill
my plate, I'm in danger of actually drooling.
As I chew, I try to pay attention to Tigris telling us how
she acquired it, but the main thing I absorb is that fur
underwear is a valuable trading item at the moment.
Especially for people who left their homes underdressed.
Many are still out on the street, trying to find shelter for the
night. Those who live in the choice apartments of the inner
city have not flung open their doors to house the displaced.
On the contrary, most of them bolted their locks, drew their
shutters, and pretended to be out. Now the City Circle's
packed with refugees, and the Peacekeepers are going
door to door, breaking into places if they have to, to assign
houseguests.
On the television, we watch a terse Head
Peacekeeper lay out specific rules regarding how many
people per square foot each resident will be expected to
take in. He reminds the citizens of the Capitol that
temperatures will drop well below freezing tonight and
warns them that their president expects them to be not only
willing but enthusiastic hosts in this time of crisis. Then they
show some very staged-looking shots of concerned
citizens welcoming grateful refugees into their homes. The
Head Peacekeeper says the president himself has ordered
part of his mansion readied to receive citizens tomorrow.
He adds that shopkeepers should also be prepared to lend
their floor space if requested.
"Tigris, that could be you," says Peeta. I realize he's
right. That even this narrow hallway of a shop could be
appropriated as the numbers swell. Then we'll be truly
trapped in the cellar, in constant danger of discovery. How
many days do we have? One? Maybe two?
The Head Peacekeeper comes back with more
instructions for the population. It seems that this evening
there was an unfortunate incident where a crowd beat to
death a young man who resembled Peeta. Henceforth, all
rebel sightings are to be reported immediately to
authorities, who will deal with the identification and arrest of
the suspect. They show a photo of the victim. Apart from
some obviously bleached curls, he looks about as much
like Peeta as I do.
"People have gone wild," Cressida murmurs.
We watch a brief rebel update in which we learn that
several more blocks have been taken today. I make note of
the intersections on my map and study it. "Line C is only
four blocks from here," I announce. Somehow that fills me
with more anxiety than the idea of Peacekeepers looking
for housing. I become very helpful. "Let me wash the
dishes."
"I'll give you a hand." Gale collects the plates.
I feel Peeta's eyes follow us out of the room. In the
cramped kitchen at the back of Tigris's shop, I fill the sink
with hot water and suds. "Do you think it's true?" I ask. "That
Snow will let refugees into the mansion?"
"I think he has to now, at least for the cameras," says
Gale."
I'm leaving in the morning," I say.
"I'm going with you," Gale says. "What should we do
with the others?"
"Pollux and Cressida could be useful. They're good
guides," I say. Pollux and Cressida aren't actually the
problem. "But Peeta's too..."
"Unpredictable," finishes Gale. "Do you think he'd still
let us leave him behind?"
"We can make the argument that he'll endanger us," I
say. "He might stay here, if we're convincing."
Peeta's fairly rational about our suggestion. He readily
agrees that his company could put the other four of us at
risk. I'm thinking this may all work out, that he can just sit out
the war in Tigris's cellar, when he announces he's going out
on his own.
"To do what?" asks Cressida.
"I'm not sure exactly. The one thing that I might still be
useful at is causing a diversion. You saw what happened to
that man who looked like me," he says.
"What if you...lose control?" I say.
"You mean...go mutt? Well, if I feel that coming on, I'll
try to get back here," he assures me.
"And if Snow gets you again?" asks Gale. "You don't
even have a gun."
"I'll just have to take my chances," says Peeta. "Like
the rest of you." The two exchange a long look, and then
Gale reaches into his breast pocket. He places his
nightlock tablet in Peeta's hand. Peeta lets it lie on his open
palm, neither rejecting nor accepting it. "What about you?"
"Don't worry. Beetee showed me how to detonate my
explosive arrows by hand. If that fails, I've got my knife. And
I'll have Katniss," says Gale with a smile. "She won't give
them the satisfaction of taking me alive."
The thought of Peacekeepers dragging Gale away
starts the tune playing in my head again....
Are you, are you
Coming to the tree
"Take it, Peeta," I say in a strained voice. I reach out
and close his fingers over the pill. "No one will be there to
help you."
We spend a fitful night, woken by one another's
nightmares, minds buzzing with the next day's plans. I'm
relieved when five o'clock rolls around and we can begin
whatever this day holds for us. We eat a mishmash of our
remaining food--canned peaches, crackers, and snails--
leaving one can of salmon for Tigris as meager thanks for
all she's done. The gesture seems to touch her in some
way. Her face contorts in an odd expression and she flies
into action. She spends the next hour remaking the five of
us. She redresses us so regular clothes hide our uniforms
before we even don our coats and cloaks. Covers our
military boots with some sort of furry slippers. Secures our
wigs with pins. Cleans off the garish remains of the paint
we so hastily applied to our faces and makes us up again.
Drapes our outerwear to conceal our weapons. Then gives
us handbags and bundles of knickknacks to carry. In the
end, we look exactly like the refugees fleeing the rebels.
"Never underestimate the power of a brilliant stylist,"
says Peeta. It's hard to tell, but I think Tigris might actually
blush under her stripes.
There are no helpful updates on the television, but the
alley seems as thick with refugees as the previous morning.
Our plan is to slip into the crowd in three groups. First
Cressida and Pollux, who will act as guides while keeping
a safe lead on us. Then Gale and myself, who intend to
position ourselves among the refugees assigned to the
mansion today. Then Peeta, who will trail behind us, ready
to create a disturbance as needed.
Tigris watches through the shutters for the right
moment, unbolts the door, and nods to Cressida and
Pollux. "Take care," Cressida says, and they are gone.
We'll be following in a minute. I get out the key, unlock
Peeta's cuffs, and stuff them in my pocket. He rubs his
wrists. Flexes them. I feel a kind of desperation rising up in
me. It's like I'm back in the Quarter Quell, with Beetee giving
Johanna and me that coil of wire.
"Listen," I say. "Don't do anything foolish."
"No. It's last-resort stuff. Completely," he says.
I wrap my arms around his neck, feel his arms hesitate
before they embrace me. Not as steady as they once were,
but still warm and strong. A thousand moments surge
through me. All the times these arms were my only refuge
from the world. Perhaps not fully appreciated then, but so
sweet in my memory, and now gone forever. "All right,
then." I release him.
"It's time," says Tigris. I kiss her cheek, fasten my red
hooded cloak, pull my scarf up over my nose, and follow
Gale out into the frigid air.
Sharp, icy snowflakes bite my exposed skin. The rising
sun's trying to break through the gloom without much
success. There's enough light to see the bundled forms
closest to you and little more. Perfect conditions, really,
except that I can't locate Cressida and Pollux. Gale and I
drop our heads and shuffle along with the refugees. I can
hear what I missed peeking through the shutters yesterday.
Crying, moaning, labored breathing. And, not too far away,
gunfire.
"Where are we going, Uncle?" a shivering little boy
asks a man weighed down with a small safe.
"To the president's mansion. They'll assign us a new
place to live," puffs the man.
We turn off the alley and spill out onto one of the main
avenues. "Stay to the right!" a voice orders, and I see the
Peacekeepers interspersed throughout the crowd,
directing the flow of human traffic. Scared faces peer out of
the plate-glass windows of the shops, which are already
becoming overrun with refugees. At this rate, Tigris may
have new houseguests by lunch. It was good for everybody
that we got out when we did.
It's brighter now, even with the snow picking up. I catch
sight of Cressida and Pollux about thirty yards ahead of us,
plodding along with the crowd. I crane my head around to
see if I can locate Peeta. I can't, but I've caught the eye of
an inquisitive-looking little girl in a lemon yellow coat. I
nudge Gale and slow my pace ever so slightly, to allow a
wall of people to form between us.
"We might need to split up," I say under my breath.
"There's a girl--"
Gunfire rips through the crowd, and several people
near me slump to the ground. Screams pierce the air as a
second round mows down another group behind us. Gale
and I drop to the street, scuttle the ten yards to the shops,
and take cover behind a display of spike-heeled boots
outside a shoe seller's.
A row of feathery footwear blocks Gale's view. "Who is
it? Can you see?" he asks me. What I can see, between
alternating pairs of lavender and mint green leather boots,
is a street full of bodies. The little girl who was watching me
kneels beside a motionless woman, screeching and trying
to rouse her. Another wave of bullets slices across the
chest of her yellow coat, staining it with red, knocking the
girl onto her back. For a moment, looking at her tiny
crumpled form, I lose my ability to form words. Gale prods
me with his elbow. "Katniss?"
"They're shooting from the roof above us," I tell Gale. I
watch a few more rounds, see the white uniforms dropping
into the snowy streets. "Trying to take out the
Peacekeepers, but they're not exactly crack shots. It must
be the rebels." I don't feel a rush of joy, although
theoretically my allies have broken through. I am transfixed
by that lemon yellow coat.
"If we start shooting, that's it," Gale says. "The whole
world will know it's us."
It's true. We're armed only with our fabulous bows. To
release an arrow would be like announcing to both sides
that we're here.
"No," I say forcefully. "We've got to get to Snow."
"Then we better start moving before the whole block
goes up," says Gale. Hugging the wall, we continue along
the street. Only the wall is mostly shopwindows. A pattern of
sweaty palms and gaping faces presses against the glass.
I yank my scarf up higher over my cheekbones as we dart
between outdoor displays. Behind a rack of framed photos
of Snow, we encounter a wounded Peacekeeper propped
against a strip of brick wall. He asks us for help. Gale
knees him in the side of the head and takes his gun. At the
intersection, he shoots a second Peacekeeper and we
both have firearms.
"So who are we supposed to be now?" I ask.
"Desperate citizens of the Capitol," says Gale. "The
Peacekeepers will think we're on their side, and hopefully
the rebels have more interesting targets."
I'm mulling over the wisdom of this latest role as we
sprint across the intersection, but by the time we reach the
next block, it no longer matters who we are. Who anyone is.
Because no one is looking at faces. The rebels are here, all
right. Pouring onto the avenue, taking cover in doorways,
behind vehicles, guns blazing, hoarse voices shouting
commands as they prepare to meet an army of
Peacekeepers marching toward us. Caught in the cross
fire are the refugees, unarmed, disoriented, many
wounded.
A pod's activated ahead of us, releasing a gush of
steam that parboils everyone in its path, leaving the victims
intestine-pink and very dead. After that, what little sense of
order there was unravels. As the remaining curlicues of
steam intertwine with the snow, visibility extends just to the
end of my barrel. Peacekeeper, rebel, citizen, who knows?
Everything that moves is a target. People shoot reflexively,
and I'm no exception. Heart pounding, adrenaline burning
through me, everyone is my enemy. Except Gale. My
hunting partner, the one person who has my back. There's
nothing to do but move forward, killing whoever comes into
our path. Screaming people, bleeding people, dead people
everywhere. As we reach the next corner, the entire block
ahead of us lights up with a rich purple glow. We
backpedal, hunker down in a stairwell, and squint into the
light. Something's happening to those illuminated by it.
They're assaulted by...what? A sound? A wave? A laser?
Weapons fall from their hands, fingers clutch their faces, as
blood sprays from all visible orifices--eyes, noses, mouths,
ears. In less than a minute, everyone's dead and the glow
vanishes. I grit my teeth and run, leaping over the bodies,
feet slipping in the gore. The wind whips the snow into
blinding swirls but doesn't block out the sound of another
wave of boots headed our way.
"Get down!" I hiss at Gale. We drop where we are. My
face lands in a still-warm pool of someone's blood, but I
play dead, remain motionless as the boots march over us.
Some avoid the bodies. Others grind into my hand, my
back, kick my head in passing. As the boots recede, I open
my eyes and nod to Gale.
On the next block, we encounter more terrified
refugees, but few soldiers. Just when it seems we might
have caught a break, there's a cracking sound, like an egg
hitting the side of a bowl but magnified a thousand times.
We stop, look around for the pod. There's nothing. Then I
feel the tips of my boots beginning to tilt ever so slightly.
"Run!" I cry to Gale. There's no time to explain, but in a few
seconds the nature of the pod becomes clear to everyone.
A seam has opened up down the center of the block. The
two sides of the tiled street are folding down like flaps,
slowly emptying the people into whatever lies beneath.
I'm torn between making a beeline for the next
intersection and trying to get to the doors that line the street
and break my way into a building. As a result, I end up
moving at a slight diagonal. As the flap continues to drop, I
find my feet scrambling, harder and harder, to find
purchase on the slippery tiles. It's like running along the
side of an icy hill that gets steeper at every step. Both of my
destinations--the intersection and the buildings--are a few
feet away when I feel the flap going. There's nothing to do
but use my last seconds of connection to the tiles to push
off for the intersection. As my hands latch on to the side, I
realize the flaps have swung straight down. My feet dangle
in the air, no foothold anywhere. From fifty feet below, a vile
stench hits my nose, like rotted corpses in the summer
heat. Black forms crawl around in the shadows, silencing
whoever survives the fall.
A strangled cry comes from my throat. No one is
coming to help me. I'm losing my grip on the icy ledge,
when I see I'm only about six feet from the corner of the pod.
I inch my hands along the ledge, trying to block out the
terrifying sounds from below. When my hands straddle the
corner, I swing my right boot up over the side. It catches on
something and I painstakingly drag myself up to street level.
Panting, trembling, I crawl out and wrap my arm around a
lamppost for an anchor, although the ground's perfectly flat.
"Gale?" I call into the abyss, heedless of being
recognized. "Gale?"
"Over here!" I look in bewilderment to my left. The flap
held up everything to the very base of the buildings. A
dozen or so people made it that far and now hang from
whatever provides a handhold. Doorknobs, knockers, mail
slots. Three doors down from me, Gale clings to the
decorative iron grating around an apartment door. He could
easily get inside if it was open. But despite repeated kicks
to the door, no one comes to his aid.
"Cover yourself!" I lift my gun. He turns away and I drill
the lock until the door flies inward. Gale swings into the
doorway, landing in a heap on the floor. For a moment, I
experience the elation of his rescue. Then the white-gloved
hands clamp down on him.
Gale meets my eyes, mouths something at me I can't
make out. I don't know what to do. I can't leave him, but I
can't reach him either. His lips move again. I shake my
head to indicate my confusion. At any minute, they'll realize
who they've captured. The Peacekeepers are hauling him
inside now. "Go!" I hear him yell.
I turn and run away from the pod. All alone now. Gale a
prisoner. Cressida and Pollux could be dead ten times
over. And Peeta? I haven't laid eyes on him since we left
Tigris's. I hold on to the idea that he may have gone back.
Felt an attack coming and retreated to the cellar while he
still had control. Realized there was no need for a diversion
when the Capitol has provided so many. No need to be bait
and have to take the nightlock--the nightlock! Gale doesn't
have any. And as for all that talk of detonating his arrows by
hand, he'll never get the chance. The first thing the
Peacekeepers will do is to strip him of his weapons.
I fall into a doorway, tears stinging my eyes. Shoot me.
That's what he was mouthing. I was supposed to shoot him!
That was my job. That was our unspoken promise, all of us,
to one another. And I didn't do it and now the Capitol will kill
him or torture him or hijack him or--the cracks begin
opening inside me, threatening to break me into pieces. I
have only one hope. That the Capitol falls, lays down its
arms, and gives up its prisoners before they hurt Gale. But I
can't see that happening while Snow's alive.
A pair of Peacekeepers runs by, barely glancing at the
whimpering Capitol girl huddled in a doorway. I choke down
my tears, wipe the existing ones off my face before they
can freeze, and pull myself back together. Okay, I'm still an
anonymous refugee. Or did the Peacekeepers who caught
Gale get a glimpse of me as I fled? I remove my cloak and
turn it inside out, letting the black lining show instead of the
red exterior. Arrange the hood so it conceals my face.
