“Is Bill here?” he asked. “I thought he was working in 
Egypt.” 

“He applied for a desk job so he could come home and 
work for the Order,” said Fred. “He says he misses the 
tombs, but,” he smirked, “there are compensations...” 

“What d’you mean?” 

“Remember old Fleur Delacour?” said George. “She’s 
got a job at Gringotts to eemprove ’er Eeenglish — ” 

“ — and Bill’s been giving her a lot of private lessons,” 
sniggered Fred. 

“Charlie’s in the Order too,” said George, “but he’s 
still in Romania, Dumbledore wants as many foreign 
wizards brought in as possible, so Charlie’s trying to 
make contacts on his days off.” 

“Couldn’t Percy do that?” Harry asked. The last he 
had heard, the third Weasley brother was working in 
the Department of International Magical Cooperation 
at the Ministry of Magic. 

At these words all the Weasleys and Hermione 
exchanged darkly significant looks. 

“Whatever you do, don’t mention Percy in front of 
Mum and Dad,” Ron told Harry in a tense voice. 

“Why not?” 



Page | 91 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Because every time Percy’s name’s mentioned, Dad 
breaks whatever he’s holding and Mum starts crying,” 
Fred said. 

“It’s been awful,” said Ginny sadly. 

“I think we’re well shut of him,” said George with an 
uncharacteristically ugly look on his face. 

“What’s happened?” Harry said. 

“Percy and Dad had a row,” said Fred. “I’ve never seen 
Dad row with anyone like that. It’s normally Mum 
who shouts...” 

“It was the first week back after term ended,” said 
Ron. “We were about to come and join the Order. 
Percy came home and told us he’d been promoted.” 

“You’re kidding?” said Harry. 

Though he knew perfectly well that Percy was highly 
ambitious, Harry’s impression was that Percy had not 
made a great success of his first job at the Ministry of 
Magic. Percy had committed the fairly large oversight 
of failing to notice that his boss was being controlled 
by Lord Voldemort (not that the Ministry had believed 
that — they all thought that Mr. Crouch had gone 
mad). 

“Yeah, we were all surprised,” said George, “because 
Percy got into a load of trouble about Crouch, there 
was an inquiry and everything. They said Percy ought 
to have realized Crouch was off his rocker and 
informed a superior. But you know Percy, Crouch left 
him in charge, he wasn’t going to complain...” 

“So how come they promoted him?” 



Page | 92 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s exactly what we wondered,” said Ron, who 
seemed very keen to keep normal conversation going 
now that Harry had stopped yelling. “He came home 
really pleased with himself — even more pleased than 
usual if you can imagine that — and told Dad he’d 
been offered a position in Fudge’s own office. A really 
good one for someone only a year out of Hogwarts — 
Junior Assistant to the Minister. He expected Dad to 
be all impressed, I think.” 

“Only Dad wasn’t,” said Fred grimly. 

“Why not?” said Harry. 

“Well, apparently Fudge has been storming round the 
Ministry checking that nobody’s having any contact 
with Dumbledore,” said George. 

“Dumbledore’s name’s mud with the Ministry these 
days, see,” said Fred. “They all think he’s just making 
trouble saying You-Know- Who’s back.” 

“Dad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone who’s 
in league with Dumbledore can clear out their desks,” 
said George. 

“Trouble is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows he’s 
friendly with Dumbledore, and he’s always thought 
Dad’s a bit of a weirdo because of his Muggle 
obsession — ” 

“But what’s this got to do with Percy?” asked Harry, 
confused. 

“I’m coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants 
Percy in his office because he wants to use him to spy 
on the family — and Dumbledore.” 



Harry let out a low whistle. 

Page | 93 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Bet Percy loved that.” 

Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way. 

“He went completely berserk. He said — well, he said 
loads of terrible stuff. He said he’s been having to 
struggle against Dad’s lousy reputation ever since he 
joined the Ministry and that Dad’s got no ambition 
and that’s why we’ve always been — you know — not 
had a lot of money, I mean — ” 

“ What?” said Harry in disbelief, as Ginny made a 
noise like an angry cat. 

“I know,” said Ron in a low voice. “And it got worse. 

He said Dad was an idiot to run around with 
Dumbledore, that Dumbledore was heading for big 
trouble and Dad was going to go down with him, and 
that he — Percy — knew where his loyalty lay and it 
was with the Ministry. And if Mum and Dad were 
going to become traitors to the Ministry he was going 
to make sure everyone knew he didn’t belong to our 
family anymore. And he packed his bags the same 
night and left. He’s living here in London now.” 

Harry swore under his breath. He had always liked 
Percy least of Ron’s brothers, but he had never 
imagined he would say such things to Mr. Weasley. 

“Mum’s been in a right state,” said Ron. “You know — 
crying and stuff. She came up to London to try and 
talk to Percy but he slammed the door in her face. I 
dunno what he does if he meets Dad at work — 
ignores him, I s’pose.” 

“But Percy must know Voldemort’s back,” said Harry 
slowly. “He’s not stupid, he must know your mum 
and dad wouldn’t risk everything without proof — ” 



Page | 94 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row,” said 
Ron, shooting Harry a furtive look. “Percy said the 
only evidence was your word and ... I dunno ... he 
didn’t think it was good enough.” 

“Percy takes the Daily Prophet seriously,” said 
Hermione tartly, and the others all nodded. 

“What are you talking about?” Harry asked, looking 
around at them all. They were all regarding him 
warily. 

“Haven’t — haven’t you been getting the Daily 
Prophet?” Hermione asked nervously. 

“Yeah, I have!” said Harry. 

“Have you — er — been reading it thoroughly?” 
Hermione asked still more anxiously. 

“Not cover to cover,” said Harry defensively. “If they 
were going to report anything about Voldemort it 
would be headline news, wouldn’t it!” 

The others flinched at the sound of the name. 
Hermione hurried on, “Well, you’d need to read it 
cover to cover to pick it up, but they — um — they 
mention you a couple of times a week.” 

“But I’d have seen — ” 

“Not if you’ve only been reading the front page, you 
wouldn’t,” said Hermione, shaking her head. “I’m not 
talking about big articles. They just slip you in, like 
you’re a standing joke.” 

“What d’you — ?” 



Page | 95 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“It’s quite nasty, actually,” said Hermione in a voice of 
forced calm. “They’re just building on Rita’s stuff.” 

“But she’s not writing for them anymore, is she?” 

“Oh no, she’s kept her promise — not that she’s got 
any choice,” Hermione added with satisfaction. “But 
she laid the foundation for what they’re trying to do 
now.” 

“Which is what?” said Harry impatiently. 

“Okay, you know she wrote that you were collapsing 
all over the place and saying your scar was hurting 
and all that?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, who was not likely to forget Rita 
Skeeter’s stories about him in a hurry. 

“Well, they’re writing about you as though you’re this 
deluded, attention-seeking person who thinks he’s a 
great tragic hero or something,” said Hermione, very 
fast, as though it would be less unpleasant for Harry 
to hear these facts quickly. “They keep slipping in 
snide comments about you. If some far-fetched story 
appears they say something like ‘a tale worthy of 
Harry Potter’ and if anyone has a funny accident or 
anything it’s let’s hope he hasn’t got a scar on his 
forehead or we’ll be asked to worship him next — ’ ” 

“I don’t want anyone to worship — ” Harry began 
hotly. 

“I know you don’t,” said Hermione quickly, looking 
frightened. “I know, Harry. But you see what they’re 
doing? They want to turn you into someone nobody 
will believe. Fudge is behind it, I’ll bet anything. They 
want wizards on the street to think you’re just some 
stupid boy who’s a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous 
Page | 96 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




tall stories because he loves being famous and wants 
to keep it going.” 

“I didn’t ask — I didn’t want — Voldemort killed my 
parentsV’ Harry spluttered. “I got famous because he 
murdered my family but couldn’t kill me! Who wants 
to be famous for that? Don’t they think I’d rather it’d 
never — ” 

“We know, Harry,” said Ginny earnestly. 

“And of course, they didn’t report a word about the 
dementors attacking you,” said Hermione. “Someone’s 
told them to keep that quiet. That should’ve been a 
really big story, out-of-control dementors. They 
haven’t even reported that you broke the International 
Statute of Secrecy — we thought they would, it would 
tie in so well with this image of you as some stupid 
show-off — we think they’re biding their time until 
you’re expelled, then they’re really going to go to town 
— I mean, if you’re expelled, obviously,” she went on 
hastily, “you really shouldn’t be, not if they abide by 
their own laws, there’s no case against you.” 

They were back on the hearing and Harry did not 
want to think about it. He cast around for another 
change of subject, but was saved the necessity of 
finding one by the sound of footsteps coming up the 
stairs. 

“Uh-oh.” 

Fred gave the Extendable Ear a hearty tug; there was 
another loud crack and he and George vanished. 
Seconds later, Mrs. Weasley appeared in the bedroom 
doorway. 

“The meeting’s over, you can come down and have 
dinner now, everyone’s dying to see you, Harry. And 

Page | 97 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




who’s left all those Dungbombs outside the kitchen 
door?” 



“Crookshanks,” said Ginny unblushingly. “He loves 
playing with them.” 

“Oh,” said Mrs. Weasley, “I thought it might have 
been Kreacher, he keeps doing odd things like that. 
Now don’t forget to keep your voices down in the hall. 
Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you been 
doing? Go and wash them before dinner, please...” 

Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother 
out of the room, leaving Harry alone with Ron and 
Hermione again. Both of them were watching him 
apprehensively, as though they feared that he would 
start shouting again now that everyone else had gone. 
The sight of them looking so nervous made him feel 
slightly ashamed. 

“Look ...” he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and 
Hermione said quietly, “We knew you’d be angry, 
Harry, we really don’t blame you, but you’ve got to 
understand, we did try and persuade Dumbledore — ” 

“Yeah, I know,” said Harry grudgingly. 

He cast around for a topic to change the subject from 
Dumbledore — the very thought of him made Harry’s 
insides burn with anger again. 

“Who’s Kreacher?” he asked. 

“The house-elf who lives here,” said Ron. “Nutter. 
Never met one like him.” 

Hermione frowned at Ron. 

“He’s not a nutter, Ron — ” 

Page | 98 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“His life’s ambition is to have his head cut off and 
stuck up on a plaque just like his mother,” said Ron 
irritably. “Is that normal, Hermione?” 

“Well — well, if he is a bit strange, it’s not his fault — ” 

Ron rolled his eyes at Harry. 

“Hermione still hasn’t given up on spew — ” 

“It’s not ‘spew’!” said Hermione heatedly. “It’s the 
Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and it’s 
not just me, Dumbledore says we should be kind to 
Kreacher too — ” 

“Yeah, yeah,” said Ron. “C’mon, I’m starving.” 

He led the way out of the door and onto the landing, 
but before they could descend the stairs — “Hold it!” 
Ron breathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry and 
Hermione walking any farther. “They’re still in the 
hall, we might be able to hear something — ” 

The three of them looked cautiously over the 
banisters. The gloomy hallway below was packed with 
witches and wizards, including all of Harry’s guard. 
They were whispering excitedly together. In the very 
center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired 
head and prominent nose of his least favorite teacher 
at Hogwarts, Professor Snape. Harry leaned farther 
over the banisters. He was very interested in what 
Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix. . . 

A thin piece of flesh-colored string descended in front 
of Harry’s eyes. Looking up he saw Fred and George 
on the landing above, cautiously lowering the 
Extendable Ear toward the dark knot of people below. 
A moment later, however, they began to move toward 
the front door and out of sight. 

Page | 99 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Dammit,” Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted 
the Extendable Ear back up again. 

They heard the front door open and then close. 

“Snape never eats here,” Ron told Harry quietly. 
“Thank God. C’mon.” 

“And don’t forget to keep your voice down in the hall, 
Harry,” Hermione whispered. 

As they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall 
they saw Lupin, Mrs. Weasley, and Tonks at the front 
door, magically sealing its many locks and bolts 
behind those who had just left. 

“We’re eating down in the kitchen,” Mrs. Weasley 
whispered, meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. 
“Harry, dear, if youll just tiptoe across the hall, it’s 
through this door here — ” 

CRASH. 

“Tonksl” cried Mrs. Weasley exasperatedly, turning to 
look behind her. 

“I’m sorry!” wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the 
floor. “It’s that stupid umbrella stand, that’s the 
second time I’ve tripped over — ” 

But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, 
earsplitting, bloodcurdling screech. 

The moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed 
earlier had flown apart, but there was no door behind 
them. For a split second, Harry thought he was 
looking through a window, a window behind which an 
old woman in a black cap was screaming and 
screaming as though she was being tortured — then 
Page | lOOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he realized it was simply a life-size portrait, but the 
most realistic, and the most unpleasant, he had ever 
seen in his life. 

The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, 
the yellowing skin of her face stretched taut as she 
screamed, and all along the hall behind them, the 
other portraits awoke and began to yell too, so that 
Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and 
clapped his hands over his ears. 

Lupin and Mrs. Weasley darted forward and tried to 
tug the curtains shut over the old woman, but they 
would not close and she screeched louder than ever, 
brandishing clawed hands as though trying to tear at 
their faces. 

“Filth! Scum! By-products of dirt and vileness! Half- 
breeds, mutants, freaks, begone from this place! How 
dare you befoul the house of my fathers — ” 

Tonks apologized over and over again, at the same 
time dragging the huge, heavy troll’s leg back off the 
floor. Mrs. Weasley abandoned the attempt to close 
the curtains and hurried up and down the hall, 
Stunning all the other portraits with her wand. Then 
a man with long black hair came charging out of a 
door facing Harry. 

“Shut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP!” he roared, 
seizing the curtain Mrs. Weasley had abandoned. 

The old woman’s face blanched. 

“Yooooul” she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of 
the man. “Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my 
fleshl” 



Page | lOlHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I said — shut — UP!” roared the man, and with a 
stupendous effort he and Lupin managed to force the 
curtains closed again. 

The old woman’s screeches died and an echoing 
silence fell. 

Panting slightly and sweeping his long dark hair out 
of his eyes, Harry’s godfather, Sirius, turned to face 
him. 

“Hello, Harry,” he said grimly, “I see you’ve met my 
mother.” 



Page | 102Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




5 




THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX 

“Your — ?” 

“My dear old mum, yeah,” said Sirius. “We’ve been 
trying to get her down for a month but we think she 
put a Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of the 
canvas. Let’s get downstairs, quick, before they all 
wake up again.” 

“But what’s a portrait of your mother doing here?” 
Harry asked, bewildered, as they went through the 
door from the hall and led the way down a flight of 
narrow stone steps, the others just behind them. 

“Hasn’t anyone told you? This was my parents’ 
house,” said Sirius. “But I’m the last Black left, so it’s 
mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore for headquarters 
— about the only useful thing I’ve been able to do.” 

Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how 
hard and bitter Sirius’s voice sounded. He followed 
his godfather to the bottom of the stairs and through 
a door leading into the basement kitchen. 

Page | 103Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a 
cavernous room with rough stone walls. Most of the 
light was coming from a large fire at the far end of the 
room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like battle 
fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of 
heavy iron pots and pans hanging from the dark 
ceiling. Many chairs had been crammed into the room 
for the meeting and a long wooden table stood in the 
middle of the room, littered with rolls of parchment, 
goblets, empty wine bottles, and a heap of what 
appeared to be rags. Mr. Weasley and his eldest son, 
Bill, were talking quietly with their heads together at 
the end of the table. 

Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin, 
balding, red-haired man, who wore horn-rimmed 
glasses, looked around and jumped to his feet. 

“Harry!” Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet 
him and shaking his hand vigorously. “Good to see 
you!” 

Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his 
long hair in a ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths 
of parchment left on the table. 

“Journey all right, Harry?” Bill called, trying to gather 
up twelve scrolls at once. “Mad-Eye didn’t make you 
come via Greenland, then?” 

“He tried,” said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and 
immediately sending a candle toppling onto the last 
piece of parchment. “Oh no — sorry — ” 

“Here, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley, sounding 
exasperated, and she repaired the parchment with a 
wave of her wand: In the flash of light caused by Mrs. 
Weasley’s charm, Harry caught a glimpse of what 
looked like the plan of a building. 

Page | 104Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the 
plan off the table and stuffed it into Bill’s heavily 
laden arms. 

“This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly 
at the end of meetings,” she snapped before sweeping 
off toward an ancient dresser from which she started 
unloading dinner plates. 

Bill took out his wand, muttered “Evanescol” and the 
scrolls vanished. 

“Sit down, Harry,” said Sirius. “You’ve met 
Mundungus, haven’t you?” 

The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a 
prolonged, grunting snore and then jerked awake. 

“Some’n say m’ name?” Mundungus mumbled 
sleepily. “I ’gree with Sirius...” 

He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though 
voting, his droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused. Ginny 
giggled. 

“The meeting’s over, Dung,” said Sirius, as they all sat 
down around him at the table. “Harry’s arrived.” 

“Eh?” said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry 
through his matted ginger hair. “Blimey, so ’e ’as. 

Yeah ... you all right, ’arry?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still 
staring at Harry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe. 

He stuck it in his mouth, ignited the end of it with his 
wand, and took a deep pull on it. Great billowing 
clouds of greenish smoke obscured him in seconds. 
Page | 105Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Owe you a ’pology,” grunted a voice from the middle 
of the smelly cloud. 

“For the last time, Mundungus,” called Mrs. Weasley, 
“will you please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, 
especially not when we’re about to eat!” 

“Ah,” said Mundungus. “Right. Sorry, Molly.” 

The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed 
his pipe back in his pocket, but an acrid smell of 
burning socks lingered. 

“And if you want dinner before midnight I’ll need a 
hand,” Mrs. Weasley said to the room at large. “No, 
you can stay where you are, Harry dear, you’ve had a 
long journey — ” 

“What can I do, Molly?” said Tonks enthusiastically, 
bounding forward. 

Mrs. Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive. 

“Er — no, it’s all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, 
you’ve done enough today — ” 

“No, no, I want to help!” said Tonks brightly, knocking 
over a chair as she hurried toward the dresser from 
which Ginny was collecting cutlery. 

Soon a series of heavy knives were chopping meat 
and vegetables of their own accord, supervised by Mr. 
Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley stirred a cauldron 
dangling over the fire and the others took out plates, 
more goblets, and food from the pantry. Harry was 
left at the table with Sirius and Mundungus, who was 
still blinking mournfully at him. 

“Seen old Figgy since?” he asked. 

Page | 106Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry, “I haven’t seen anyone.” 



“See, I wouldn’t ’ave left,” said Mundungus, leaning 
forward, a pleading note in his voice, “but I ’ad a 
business opportunity — ” 

Harry felt something brush against his knees and 
started, but it was only Crookshanks, Hermione’s 
bandy-legged ginger cat, who wound himself once 
around Harry’s legs, purring, then jumped onto 
Sirius’s lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him 
absentmindedly behind the ears as he turned, still 
grim-faced, to Harry. 

“Had a good summer so far?” 

“No, it’s been lousy,” said Harry. 

For the first time, something like a grin flitted across 
Sirius’s face. 

“Don’t know what you’re complaining about, myself.” 

“ What?” said Harry incredulously. 

“Personally, I’d have welcomed a dementor attack. A 
deadly struggle for my soul would have broken the 
monotony nicely. You think you’ve had it bad, at least 
you’ve been able to get out and about, stretch your 
legs, get into a few fights... I’ve been stuck inside for a 
month.” 

“How come?” asked Harry, frowning. 

“Because the Ministry of Magic’s still after me, and 
Voldemort will know all about me being an Animagus 
by now, Wormtail will have told him, so my big 
disguise is useless. There’s not much I can do for the 
Order of the Phoenix ... or so Dumbledore feels.” 

Page | 107Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was something about the slightly flattened tone 
of voice in which Sirius uttered Dumbledore’s name 
that told Harry that Sirius was not very happy with 
the headmaster either. Harry felt a sudden upsurge of 
affection for his godfather. 

“At least you’ve known what’s been going on,” he said 
bracingly. 

“Oh yeah,” said Sirius sarcastically. “Listening to 
Snape’s reports, having to take all his snide hints that 
he’s out there risking his life while I’m sat on my 
backside here having a nice comfortable time . . . 
asking me how the cleaning’s going — ” 

“What cleaning?” asked Harry. 

“Trying to make this place fit for human habitation,” 
said Sirius, waving a hand around the dismal 
kitchen. “No one’s lived here for ten years, not since 
my dear mother died, unless you count her old 
house-elf, and he’s gone round the twist, hasn’t 
cleaned anything in ages — ” 

“Sirius?” said Mundungus, who did not appear to 
have paid any attention to this conversation, but had 
been minutely examining an empty goblet. “This solid 
silver, mate?” 

“Yes,” said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. “Finest 
fifteenth-century goblin-wrought silver, embossed 
with the Black family crest.” 

“That’d come off, though,” muttered Mundungus, 
polishing it with his cuff. 

“Fred — George — NO, JUST CARRY THEM!” Mrs. 
Weasley shrieked. 



Page | 108Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and, a 
split second later, dived away from the table. Fred 
and George had bewitched a large cauldron of stew, 
an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy wooden 
breadboard, complete with knife, to hurtle through 
the air toward them. The stew skidded the length of 
the table and came to a halt just before the end, 
leaving a long black burn on the wooden surface, the 
flagon of butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its 
contents everywhere, and the bread knife slipped off 
the board and landed, point down and quivering 
ominously, exactly where Sirius’s right hand had 
been seconds before. 

“FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE!” screamed Mrs. Weasley. 
“THERE WAS NO NEED — IVE HAD ENOUGH OF 
THIS — JUST BECAUSE YOU’RE ALLOWED TO USE 
MAGIC NOW YOU DONT HAVE TO WHIP YOUR 
WANDS OUT FOR EVERY TINY LITTLE THING!” 

“We were just trying to save a bit of time!” said Fred, 
hurrying forward and wrenching the bread knife out 
of the table. “Sorry Sirius, mate — didn’t mean to — ” 

Harry and Sirius were both laughing. Mundungus, 
who had toppled backward off his chair, was swearing 
as he got to his feet. Crookshanks had given an angry 
hiss and shot off under the dresser, from whence his 
large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness. 

“Boys,” Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into 
the middle of the table, “your mother’s right, you’re 
supposed to show a sense of responsibility now you’ve 
come of age — ” 

“ — none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!” 
Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh 
flagon of butterbeer onto the table and spilling almost 
as much again. “Bill didn’t feel the need to Apparate 

Page | 109Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




every few feet! Charlie didn’t Charm everything he 
met! Percy — ” 

She stopped dead, catching her breath with a 
frightened look at her husband, whose expression 
was suddenly wooden. 

“Let’s eat,” said Bill quickly. 

“It looks wonderful, Molly,” said Lupin, ladling stew 
onto a plate for her and handing it across the table. 

For a few minutes there was silence but for the chink 
of plates and cutlery and the scraping of chairs as 
everyone settled down to their food. Then Mrs. 

Weasley turned to Sirius and said, “I’ve been meaning 
to tell you, there’s something trapped in that writing 
desk in the drawing room, it keeps rattling and 
shaking. Of course, it could just be a boggart, but I 
thought we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at it 
before we let it out.” 

“Whatever you like,” said Sirius indifferently. 

“The curtains in there are full of doxies too,” Mrs. 
Weasley went on. “I thought we might try and tackle 
them tomorrow.” 

“I look forward to it,” said Sirius. Harry heard the 
sarcasm in his voice, but he was not sure that anyone 
else did. 

Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione 
and Ginny by transforming her nose between 
mouthfuls. Screwing up her eyes each time with the 
same pained expression she had worn back in Harry’s 
bedroom, her nose swelled to a beaklike protuberance 
like Snape’s, shrank to something resembling a 
button mushroom, and then sprouted a great deal of 
Page | llOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hair from each nostril. Apparently this was a regular 
mealtime entertainment, because after a while 
Hermione and Ginny started requesting their favorite 
noses. 

“Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks ...” 

Tonks obliged, and Harry, looking up, had the fleeting 
impression that a female Dudley was grinning at him 
from across the table. 

Mr. Weasley, Bill, and Lupin were having an intense 
discussion about goblins. 

“They’re not giving anything away yet,” said Bill. “I 
still can’t work out whether they believe he’s back or 
not. ’Course, they might prefer not to take sides at all. 
Keep out of it.” 

“I’m sure they’d never go over to You-Know-Who,” 
said Mr. Weasley, shaking his head. “They’ve suffered 
losses too. Remember that goblin family he murdered 
last time, somewhere near Nottingham?” 

“I think it depends what they’re offered,” said Lupin. 
“And I’m not talking about gold; if they’re offered 
freedoms we’ve been denying them for centuries 
they’re going to be tempted. Have you still not had 
any luck with Ragnok, Bill?” 

“He’s feeling pretty anti-wizard at the moment,” said 
Bill. “He hasn’t stopped raging about the Bagman 
business, he reckons the Ministry did a cover-up, 
those goblins never got their gold from him, you know 



A gale of laughter from the middle of the table 
drowned the rest of Bill’s words. Fred, George, Ron, 
and Mundungus were rolling around in their seats. 

Page | lllHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




"... and then,” choked Mundungus, tears running 
down his face, “and then, if you’ll believe it, ’e says to 
me, ’e says, ‘’ere, Dung, where didja get all them toads 
from? ’Cos some son of a Bludger’s gone and nicked 
all mine!’ And I says, ‘Nicked all your toads, Will, 
what next? So you’ll be wanting some more, then?’ 
And if you’ll believe me, lads, the gormless gargoyle 
buys all ’is own toads back orf me for twice what ’e 
paid in the first place — ■” 

“I don’t think we need to hear any more of your 
business dealings, thank you very much, 
Mundungus,” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Ron 
slumped forward onto the table, howling with 
laughter. 

“Beg pardon, Molly,” said Mundungus at once, wiping 
his eyes and winking at Harry. “But, you know, Will 
nicked ’em orf Warty Harris in the first place so I 
wasn’t really doing nothing wrong — ” 

“I don’t know where you learned about right and 
wrong, Mundungus, but you seem to have missed a 
few crucial lessons,” said Mrs. Weasley coldly. 

Fred and George buried their faces in their goblets of 
butterbeer; George was hiccuping. For some reason, 
Mrs. Weasley threw a very nasty look at Sirius before 
getting to her feet and going to fetch a large rhubarb 
crumble for pudding. Harry looked round at his 
godfather. 

“Molly doesn’t approve of Mundungus,” said Sirius in 
an undertone. 

“How come he’s in the Order?” Harry said very 
quietly. 



Page | 112Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“He’s useful,” Sirius muttered. “Knows all the crooks 
— well, he would, seeing as he’s one himself. But he’s 
also very loyal to Dumbledore, who helped him out of 
a tight spot once. It pays to have someone like Dung 
around, he hears things we don’t. But Molly thinks 
inviting him to stay for dinner is going too far. She 
hasn’t forgiven him for slipping off duty when he was 
supposed to be tailing you.” 

Three helpings of rhubarb crumble and custard later 
and the waistband on Harry’s jeans was feeling 
uncomfortably tight (which was saying something, as 
the jeans had once been Dudley’s). He lay down his 
spoon in a lull in the general conversation. Mr. 
Weasley was leaning back in his chair, looking replete 
and relaxed, Tonks was yawning widely, her nose now 
back to normal, and Ginny, who had lured 
Crookshanks out from under the dresser, was sitting 
cross-legged on the floor, rolling butterbeer corks for 
him to chase. 

“Nearly time for bed, I think,” said Mrs. Weasley on a 
yawn. 

“Not just yet, Molly,” said Sirius, pushing away his 
empty plate and turning to look at Harry. “You know, 
I’m surprised at you. I thought the first thing you’d do 
when you got here would be to start asking questions 
about Voldemort.” 

The atmosphere in the room changed with the 
rapidity Harry associated with the arrival of 
dementors. Where seconds before it had been sleepily 
relaxed, it was now alert, even tense. A frisson had 
gone around the table at the mention of Voldemort’s 
name. Lupin, who had been about to take a sip of 
wine, lowered his goblet slowly, looking wary. 



