followed Cho out of the door. 

It was raining hard now, and she was nowhere to be 
seen. He simply did not understand what had 

Page | 717Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




happened; half an hour ago they had been getting 
along fine. 

“Women!” he muttered angrily, sloshing down the 
rain-washed street with his hands in his pockets. 
“What did she want to talk about Cedric for anyway? 
Why does she always want to drag up a subject that 
makes her act like a human hosepipe?” 

He turned right and broke into a splashy run, and 
within minutes he was turning into the doorway of 
the Three Broomsticks. He knew he was too early to 
meet Hermione, but he thought it likely there would 
be someone in here with whom he could spend the 
intervening time. He shook his wet hair out of his 
eyes and looked around. Hagrid was sitting alone in a 
corner, looking morose. 

“Hi, Hagrid!” he said, when he had squeezed through 
the crammed tables and pulled up a chair beside him. 

Hagrid jumped and looked down at Harry as though 
he barely recognized him. Harry saw that he had two 
fresh cuts on his face and several new bruises. 

“Oh, it’s you, Harry,” said Hagrid. “You all righ’?” 

“Yeah, I’m fine,” lied Harry; in fact, next to this 
battered and mournful-looking Hagrid, he felt he did 
not have much to complain about. “Er — are you 
okay?” 

“Me?” said Hagrid. “Oh yeah, I’m grand, Harry, 
grand...” 

He gazed into the depths of his pewter tankard, which 
was the size of a large bucket, and sighed. Harry did 
not know what to say to him. They sat side by side in 



Page | 718Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




silence for a moment. Then Hagrid said abruptly, “In 
the same boat, you an’ me, aren’ we, Harry?” 

“Er — ” said Harry. 

“Yeah ... I’ve said it before... Both outsiders, like,” 
said Hagrid, nodding wisely. “An’ both orphans. Yeah 
... both orphans.” 

He took a great swig from his tankard. 

“Makes a diff’rence, havin’ a decent family,” he said. 
“Me dad was decent. An’ your mum an’ dad were 
decent. If they’d lived, life woulda bin diff’rent, eh?” 

“Yeah ... I s’pose,” said Harry cautiously. Hagrid 
seemed to be in a very strange mood. 

“Family,” said Hagrid gloomily. “Whatever yeh say, 
blood’s important...” 

And he wiped a trickle of it out of his eye. 

“Hagrid,” said Harry, unable to stop himself, “where 
are you getting all these injuries?” 

“Eh?” said Hagrid, looking startled. “Wha’ injuries?” 

“All those!” said Harry, pointing at Hagrid ’s face. 

“Oh ... tha’s jus’ normal bumps an’ bruises, Harry,” 
said Hagrid dismissively. “I got a rough job.” 

He drained his tankard, set it back upon the table, 
and got to his feet. 

“I’ll be seein’yeh, Harry... Take care now...” 



Page | 719Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And he lumbered out of the pub looking wretched and 
then disappeared into the torrential rain. Harry 
watched him go, feeling miserable. Hagrid was 
unhappy and he was hiding something, but he 
seemed determined not to accept help. What was 
going on? But before Harry could think about the 
matter any further, he heard a voice calling his name. 

“Harry! Harry, over here!” 

Hermione was waving at him from the other side of 
the room. He got up and made his way toward her 
through the crowded pub. He was still a few tables 
away when he realized that Hermione was not alone; 
she was sitting at a table with the unlikeliest pair of 
drinking mates he could ever have imagined: Luna 
Lovegood and none other than Rita Skeeter, ex- 
journalist on the Daily Prophet and one of Hermione’s 
least favorite people in the world. 

“You’re early!” said Hermione, moving along to give 
him room to sit down. “I thought you were with Cho, I 
wasn’t expecting you for another hour at least!” 

“Cho?” said Rita at once, twisting around in her seat 
to stare avidly at Harry. “A girl?” 

She snatched up her crocodile-skin handbag and 
groped within it. 

“It’s none of your business if Harry’s been with a 
hundred girls,” Hermione told Rita coolly. “So you can 
put that away right now.” 

Rita had been on the point of withdrawing an acid- 
green quill from her bag. Looking as though she had 
been forced to swallow Stinksap, she snapped her bag 
shut again. 



Page | 720Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What are you up to?” Harry asked, sitting down and 
staring from Rita to Luna to Hermione. 



“Little Miss Perfect was just about to tell me when you 
arrived,” said Rita, taking a large slurp of her drink. “I 
suppose I’m allowed to talk to him, am I?” she shot at 
Hermione. 

“Yes, I suppose you are,” said Hermione coldly. 

Unemployment did not suit Rita. The hair that had 
once been set in elaborate curls now hung lank and 
unkempt around her face. The scarlet paint on her 
two-inch talons was chipped and there were a couple 
of false jewels missing from her winged glasses. She 
took another great gulp of her drink and said out of 
the corner of her mouth, “Pretty girl, is she, Harry?” 

“One more word about Harry’s love life and the deal’s 
off and that’s a promise,” said Hermione irritably. 

“What deal?” said Rita, wiping her mouth on the back 
of her hand. “You haven’t mentioned a deal yet, Miss 
Prissy, you just told me to turn up. Oh, one of these 
days ...” She took a deep shuddering breath. 

“Yes, yes, one of these days you’ll write more horrible 
stories about Harry and me,” said Hermione 
indifferently. “Find someone who cares, why don’t 
you?” 

“They’ve run plenty of horrible stories about Harry 
this year without my help,” said Rita, shooting a 
sideways look at him over the top of her glass and 
adding in a rough whisper, “How has that made you 
feel, Harry? Betrayed? Distraught? Misunderstood?” 

“He feels angry, of course,” said Hermione in a hard, 
clear voice. “Because he’s told the Minister of Magic 

Page | 721Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the truth and the Minister’s too much of an idiot to 
believe him.” 

“So you actually stick to it, do you, that He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named is back?” said Rita, lowering her 
glass and subjecting Harry to a piercing stare while 
her finger strayed longingly to the clasp of the 
crocodile bag. “You stand by all this garbage 
Dumbledore’s been telling everybody about You- 
Know-Who returning and you being the sole witness 
— ?” 

“I wasn’t the sole witness,” snarled Harry. “There were 
a dozen-odd Death Eaters there as well. Want their 
names?” 

“I’d love them,” breathed Rita, now fumbling in her 
bag once more and gazing at him as though he was 
the most beautiful thing she had ever seen. “A great 
bold headline: ‘Potter Accuses ...’A subheading: 

‘Harry Potter Names Death Eaters Still Among Us.’ And 
then, beneath a nice big photograph of you: 

‘Disturbed teenage survivor of You-Know-Who’s attack, 
Harry Potter, 1 5, caused outrage yesterday by 
accusing respectable and prominent members of the 
Wizarding community of being Death Eaters...’ ” 

The Quick-Quotes Quill was actually in her hand and 
halfway to her mouth when the rapturous expression 
died out of her face. 

“But of course,” she said, lowering the quill and 
looking daggers at Hermione, “Little Miss Perfect 
wouldn’t want that story out there, would she?” 

“As a matter of fact,” said Hermione sweetly, “that’s 
exactly what Little Miss Perfect does want.” 



Page | 722Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Rita stared at her. So did Harry. Luna, on the other 
hand, sang, “Weasley Is Our King” dreamily under her 
breath and stirred her drink with a cocktail onion on 
a stick. 

“You want me to report what he says about He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named?” Rita asked Hermione in a 
hushed voice. 

“Yes, I do,” said Hermione. “The true story. All the 
facts. Exactly as Harry reports them. Hell give you all 
the details, hell tell you the names of the 
undiscovered Death Eaters he saw there, hell tell you 
what Voldemort looks like now — oh, get a grip on 
yourself,” she added contemptuously, throwing a 
napkin across the table, for at the sound of 
Voldemort’s name, Rita had jumped so badly that she 
had slopped half her glass of firewhisky down herself. 

Rita blotted the front of her grubby raincoat, still 
staring at Hermione. Then she said baldly, “The 
Prophet wouldn’t print it. In case you haven’t noticed, 
nobody believes his cock-and-bull story. Everyone 
thinks he’s delusional. Now, if you let me write the 
story from that angle — ” 

“We don’t need another story about how Harry’s lost 
his marbles!” said Hermione angrily. “We’ve had 
plenty of those already, thank you! I want him given 
the opportunity to tell the truth!” 

“There’s no market for a story like that,” said Rita 
coldly. 

“You mean the Prophet won’t print it because Fudge 
won’t let them,” said Hermione irritably. 

Rita gave Hermione a long, hard look. Then, leaning 
forward across the table toward her, she said in a 

Page | 723Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




businesslike tone, “All right, Fudge is leaning on the 
Prophet, but it comes to the same thing. They won’t 
print a story that shows Harry in a good light. Nobody 
wants to read it. It’s against the public mood. This 
last Azkaban breakout has got people quite worried 
enough. People just don’t want to believe You-Know- 
Who’s back.” 

“So the Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they 
want to hear, does it?” said Hermione scathingly. 

Rita sat up straight again, her eyebrows raised, and 
drained her glass of firewhisky. 

“The Prophet exists to sell itself, you silly girl,” she 
said coldly. 

“My dad thinks it’s an awful paper,” said Luna, 
chipping into the conversation unexpectedly. Sucking 
on her cocktail onion, she gazed at Rita with her 
enormous, protuberant, slightly mad eyes. “He 
publishes important stories that he thinks the public 
needs to know. He doesn’t care about making money.” 

Rita looked disparagingly at Luna. 

“I’m guessing your father runs some stupid little 
village newsletter?” she said. “ Twenty-five Ways to 
Mingle with Muggles’ and the dates of the next Bring- 
and-Fly Sale?” 

“No,” said Luna, dipping her onion back into her 
gillywater, “he’s the editor of The Quibbler.” 

Rita snorted so loudly that people at a nearby table 
looked around in alarm. 



Page | 724Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ ‘Important stories he thinks the public needs to 
know’?” she said witheringly. “I could manure my 
garden with the contents of that rag.” 

“Well, this is your chance to raise the tone of it a bit, 
isn’t it?” said Hermione pleasantly. “Luna says her 
father’s quite happy to take Harry’s interview. That’s 
who’ll be publishing it.” 

Rita stared at them both for a moment and then let 
out a great whoop of laughter. 

“ The Quibbleii” she said, cackling. “You think people 
will take him seriously if he’s published in The 
Quibbler?” 

“Some people won’t,” said Hermione in a level voice. 
“But the Daily Prophet’s version of the Azkaban 
breakout had some gaping holes in it. I think a lot of 
people will be wondering whether there isn’t a better 
explanation of what happened, and if there’s an 
alternative story available, even if it is published in a” 
— she glanced sideways at Luna, “in a — well, an 
unusual magazine — I think they might be rather 
keen to read it.” 

Rita did not say anything for a while, but eyed 
Hermione shrewdly, her head a little to one side. 

“All right, let’s say for a moment I’ll do it,” she said 
abruptly. “What kind of fee am I going to get?” 

“I don’t think Daddy exactly pays people to write for 
the magazine,” said Luna dreamily. “They do it 
because it’s an honor, and, of course, to see their 
names in print.” 



Page | 725Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Rita Skeeter looked as though the taste of Stinksap 
was strong in her mouth again as she rounded on 
Hermione. “I’m supposed to do this for free?” 

“Well, yes,” said Hermione calmly, taking a sip of her 
drink. “Otherwise, as you very well know, I will inform 
the authorities that you are an unregistered 
Animagus. Of course, the Prophet might give you 
rather a lot for an insider’s account of life in 
Azkaban...” 

Rita looked as though she would have liked nothing 
better than to seize the paper umbrella sticking out of 
Hermione ’s drink and thrust it up her nose. 

“I don’t suppose I’ve got any choice, have I?” said Rita, 
her voice shaking slightly. She opened her crocodile 
bag once more, withdrew a piece of parchment, and 
raised her Quick-Quotes Quill. 

“Daddy will be pleased,” said Luna brightly. A muscle 
twitched in Rita’s jaw. 

“Okay, Harry?” said Hermione, turning to him. “Ready 
to tell the public the truth?” 

“I suppose,” said Harry, watching Rita balancing the 
Quick-Quotes Quill at the ready on the parchment 
between them. 

“Fire away, then, Rita,” said Hermione serenely, 
fishing a cherry out of the bottom of her glass. 



Page | 726Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 







SEEN AND UNFORESEEN 

Luna said vaguely that she did not know how soon 
Rita’s interview with Harry would appear in The 
Quibbler, that her father was expecting a lovely long 
article on recent sightings of Crumple-Horned 
Snorkacks. “And, of course, that’ll be a very 
important story, so Harry’s might have to wait for the 
following issue,” said Luna. 

Harry had not found it an easy experience to talk 
about the night when Voldemort had returned. Rita 
had pressed him for every little detail, and he had 
given her everything he could remember, knowing 
that this was his one big opportunity to tell the world 
the truth. He wondered how people would react to the 
story. He guessed that it would confirm a lot of people 
in the view that he was completely insane, not least 
because his story would be appearing alongside utter 
rubbish about Crumple-Horned Snorkacks. But the 
breakout of Bellatrix Lestrange and her fellow Death 
Eaters had given Harry a burning desire to do 
something, whether it worked or not... 



Page | 727Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“Can’t wait to see what Umbridge thinks of you going 
public,” said Dean, sounding awestruck at dinner on 
Monday night. Seamus was shoveling down large 
amounts of chicken-and-ham pie on Dean’s other 
side, but Harry knew he was listening. 

“It’s the right thing to do, Harry,” said Neville, who 
was sitting opposite him. He was rather pale, but 
went on in a low voice, “It must have been ... tough ... 
talking about it... Was it?” 

“Yeah,” mumbled Harry, “but people have got to know 
what Voldemort’s capable of, haven’t they?” 

“That’s right,” said Neville, nodding, “and his Death 
Eaters too ... People should know...” 

Neville left his sentence hanging and returned to his 
baked potato. Seamus looked up, but when he caught 
Harry’s eye he looked quickly back at his plate again. 
After a while Dean, Seamus, and Neville departed for 
the common room, leaving Harry and Hermione at the 
table waiting for Ron, who had not yet had dinner 
because of Quidditch practice. 

Cho Chang walked into the hall with her friend 
Marietta. Harry’s stomach gave an unpleasant lurch, 
but she did not look over at the Gryffindor table and 
sat down with her back to him. 

“Oh, I forgot to ask you,” said Hermione brightly, 
glancing over at the Ravenclaw table, “what happened 
on your date with Cho? How come you were back so 
early?” 

“Er ... well, it was ...” said Harry, pulling a dish of 
rhubarb crumble toward him and helping himself to 
seconds, “a complete fiasco, now that you mention it.” 



Page | 728Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And he told her what had happened in Madam 
Puddifoot’s Tea Shop. 



"... so then,” he finished several minutes later, as the 
final bit of crumble disappeared, “she jumps up, 
right, and says ‘111 see you around, Harry,’ and runs 
out of the place!” He put down his spoon and looked 
at Hermione. “I mean, what was all that about? What 
was going on?” 

Hermione glanced over at the back of Cho’s head and 
sighed. “Oh, Harry,” she said sadly. “Well, I’m sorry, 
but you were a bit tactless.” 

“Me, tactless?” said Harry, outraged. “One minute we 
were getting on fine, next minute she was telling me 
that Roger Davies asked her out, and how she used to 
go and snog Cedric in that stupid tea shop — how 
was I supposed to feel about that?” 

“Well, you see,” said Hermione, with the patient air of 
one explaining that one plus one equals two to an 
overemotional toddler, “you shouldn’t have told her 
that you wanted to meet me halfway through your 
date.” 

“But, but,” spluttered Harry, “but — you told me to 
meet you at twelve and to bring her along, how was I 
supposed to do that without telling her — ?” 

“You should have told her differently” said Hermione, 
still with that maddeningly patient air. “You should 
have said it was really annoying, but I’d made you 
promise to come along to the Three Broomsticks, and 
you really didn’t want to go, you’d much rather spend 
the whole day with her, but unfortunately you 
thought you really ought to meet me and would she 
please, please come along with you, and hopefully 
you’d be able to get away more quickly? And it might 
Page | 729Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have been a good idea to mention how ugly you think 
I am too,” Hermione added as an afterthought. 

“But I don’t think you’re ugly,” said Harry, bemused. 

Hermione laughed. 

“Harry, you’re worse than Ron... Well, no, you’re not,” 
she sighed, as Ron himself came stumping into the 
Hall splattered with mud and looking grumpy. “Look 
— you upset Cho when you said you were going to 
meet me, so she tried to make you jealous. It was her 
way of trying to find out how much you liked her.” 

“Is that what she was doing?” said Harry as Ron 
dropped onto the bench opposite them and pulled 
every dish within reach toward himself. “Well, 
wouldn’t it have been easier if she’d just asked me 
whether I liked her better than you?” 

“Girls don’t often ask questions like that,” said 
Hermione. 

“Well, they should!” said Harry forcefully. “Then I 
could’ve just told her I fancy her, and she wouldn’t 
have had to get herself all worked up again about 
Cedric dying!” 

“I’m not saying what she did was sensible,” said 
Hermione, as Ginny joined them, just as muddy as 
Ron and looking equally disgruntled. “I’m just trying 
to make you see how she was feeling at the time.” 

“You should write a book,” Ron told Hermione as he 
cut up his potatoes, “translating mad things girls do 
so boys can understand them.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry fervently, looking over at the 
Ravenclaw table. Cho had just got up; still not looking 

Page | 730Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




at him, she left the Great Hall. Feeling rather 
depressed, he looked back at Ron and Ginny. “So, 
how was Quidditch practice?” 

“It was a nightmare,” said Ron in a surly voice. 

“Oh come on,” said Hermione, looking at Ginny, “I’m 
sure it wasn’t that — ” 

“Yes, it was,” said Ginny. “It was appalling. Angelina 
was nearly in tears by the end of it.” 

Ron and Ginny went off for baths after dinner; Harry 
and Hermione returned to the busy Gryffindor 
common room and their usual pile of homework. 
Harry had been struggling with a new star chart for 
Astronomy for half an hour when Fred and George 
turned up. 

“Ron and Ginny not here?” asked Fred, looking 
around as he pulled up a chair and, when Harry 
shook his head, he said, “Good. We were watching 
their practice. They’re going to be slaughtered. They’re 
complete rubbish without us.” 

“Come on, Ginny’s not bad,” said George fairly, sitting 
down next to Fred. “Actually, I dunno how she got so 
good, seeing how we never let her play with us...” 

“She’s been breaking into your broom shed in the 
garden since the age of six and taking each of your 
brooms out in turn when you weren’t looking,” said 
Hermione from behind her tottering pile of Ancient 
Rune books. 

“Oh,” said George, looking mildly impressed. “Well — 
that’d explain it.” 



Page | 731Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Has Ron saved a goal yet?” asked Hermione, peering 
over the top of Magical Hieroglyphs and Logograms. 

“Well, he can do it if he doesn’t think anyone’s 
watching him,” said Fred, rolling his eyes. “So all we 
have to do is ask the crowd to turn their backs and 
talk among themselves every time the Quaffle goes up 
his end on Saturday.” 

He got up again and moved restlessly to the window, 
staring out across the dark grounds. 

“You know, Quidditch was about the only thing in 
this place worth staying for.” 

Hermione cast him a stern look. 

“You’ve got exams coming!” 

“Told you already, we’re not fussed about N.E.W.T.s,” 
said Fred. “The Snackboxes are ready to roll, we 
found out how to get rid of those boils, just a couple 
of drops of murtlap essence sorts them, Lee put us 
onto it...” 

George yawned widely and looked out disconsolately 
at the cloudy night sky. 

“I dunno if I even want to watch this match. If 
Zacharias Smith beats us I might have to kill myself.” 

“Kill him, more like,” said Fred firmly. 

“That’s the trouble with Quidditch,” said Hermione 
absentmindedly, once again bent over her Rune 
translation, “it creates all this bad feeling and tension 
between the Houses.” 



Page | 732Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She looked up to find her copy of Spellman’s 
Syllabary and caught Fred, George, and Harry looking 
at her with expressions of mingled disgust and 
incredulity on their faces. 

“Well, it does!” she said impatiently. “It’s only a game, 
isn’t it?” 

“Hermione,” said Harry, shaking his head, “you’re 
good on feelings and stuff, but you just don’t 
understand about Quidditch.” 

“Maybe not,” she said darkly, returning to her 
translation again, “but at least my happiness doesn’t 
depend on Ron’s goalkeeping ability.” 

And though Harry would rather have jumped off the 
Astronomy Tower than admit it to her, by the time he 
had watched the game the following Saturday he 
would have given any number of Galleons not to care 
about Quidditch either. 

The very best thing you could say about the match 
was that it was short; the Gryffindor spectators had 
to endure only twenty-two minutes of agony. It was 
hard to say what the worst thing was: Harry thought 
it was a close-run contest between Ron’s fourteenth 
failed save, Sloper missing the Bludger but hitting 
Angelina in the mouth with his bat, and Kirke 
shrieking and falling backward off his broom as 
Zacharias Smith zoomed at him carrying the Quaffle. 
The miracle was that Gryffindor only lost by ten 
points: Ginny managed to snatch the Snitch from 
right under Hufflepuff Seeker Summerby’s nose, so 
that the final score was two hundred and forty versus 
two hundred and thirty. 



Page | 733Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Good catch,” Harry told Ginny back in the common 
room, where the atmosphere closely resembled that of 
a particularly dismal funeral. 

“I was lucky,” she shrugged. “It wasn’t a very fast 
Snitch and Summerby’s got a cold, he sneezed and 
closed his eyes at exactly the wrong moment. Anyway, 
once you’re back on the team — ” 

“Ginny, I’ve got a lifelong ban.” 

“You’re banned as long as Umbridge is in the school,” 
Ginny corrected him. “There’s a difference. Anyway, 
once you’re back, I think I’ll try out for Chaser. 
Angelina and Alicia are both leaving next year and I 
prefer goal-scoring to Seeking anyway.” 

Harry looked over at Ron, who was hunched in a 
corner, staring at his knees, a bottle of butterbeer 
clutched in his hand. 

“Angelina still won’t let him resign,” Ginny said, as 
though reading Harry’s mind. “She says she knows 
he’s got it in him.” 

Harry liked Angelina for the faith she was showing in 
Ron, but at the same time thought it would really be 
kinder to let him leave the team. Ron had left the 
pitch to another booming chorus of “Weasley Is Our 
King” sung with great gusto by the Slytherins, who 
were now favorites to win the Quidditch Cup. 

Fred and George wandered over. 

“I haven’t got the heart to take the mickey out of him, 
even,” said Fred, looking over at Ron’s crumpled 
figure. “Mind you ... when he missed the fourteenth 



Page | 734Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He made wild motions with his arms as though doing 
an upright doggy-paddle. 



“Well, I’ll save it for parties, eh?” 

Ron dragged himself up to bed shortly after this. Out 
of respect for his feelings, Harry waited a while before 
going up to the dormitory himself, so that Ron could 
pretend to be asleep if he wanted to. Sure enough, 
when Harry finally entered the room Ron was snoring 
a little too loudly to be entirely plausible. 

Harry got into bed, thinking about the match. It had 
been immensely frustrating watching from the 
sidelines. He was quite impressed by Ginny’s 
performance but he felt that if he had been playing he 
could have caught the Snitch sooner... There had 
been a moment when it had been fluttering near 
Kirke’s ankle; if she hadn’t hesitated, she might have 
been able to scrape a win for Gryffindor. . . 

Umbridge had been sitting a few rows below Harry 
and Hermione. Once or twice she had turned squatly 
in her seat to look at him, her wide toad’s mouth 
stretched in what he thought had been a gloating 
smile. The memory of it made him feel hot with anger 
as he lay there in the dark. After a few minutes, 
however, he remembered that he was supposed to be 
emptying his mind of all emotion before he slept, as 
Snape kept instructing him at the end of every 
Occlumency lesson. 

He tried for a moment or two, but the thought of 
Snape on top of memories of Umbridge merely 
increased his sense of grumbling resentment, and he 
found himself focusing instead on how much he 
loathed the pair of them. Slowly, Ron’s snores died 
away, replaced by the sound of deep, slow breathing. 

It took Harry much longer to get to sleep; his body 
Page | 735Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




was tired, but it took his brain a long time to close 
down. 



He dreamed that Neville and Professor Sprout were 
waltzing around the Room of Requirement while 
Professor McGonagall played the bagpipes. He 
watched them happily for a while, then decided to go 
and find the other members of the D.A... 

But when he left the room he found himself facing, 
not the tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy, but a torch 
burning in its bracket on a stone wall. He turned his 
head slowly to the left. There, at the far end of the 
windowless passage, was a plain, black door. 

He walked toward it with a sense of mounting 
excitement. He had the strangest feeling that this 
time he was going to get lucky at last, and find the 
way to open it... He was feet from it and saw with a 
leap of excitement that there was a glowing strip of 
faint blue light down the right-hand side... The door 
was ajar... He stretched out his hand to push it wide 
and — 

Ron gave a loud, rasping, genuine snore, and Harry 
awoke abruptly with his right hand stretched in front 
of him in the darkness, to open a door that was 
hundreds of miles away. He let it fall with a feeling of 
mingled disappointment and guilt. He knew he 
should not have seen the door, but at the same time, 
felt so consumed with curiosity about what was 
behind it that he could not help feeling annoyed with 
Ron... If he could have saved his snore for just 
another minute . . . 



k k k 



Page | 736Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They entered the Great Hall for breakfast at exactly 
the same moment as the post owls on Monday 
morning. Hermione was not the only person eagerly 
awaiting her Daily Prophet: Nearly everyone was eager 
for more news about the escaped Death Eaters, who, 
despite many reported sightings, had still not been 
caught. She gave the delivery owl a Knut and 
unfolded the newspaper eagerly while Harry helped 
himself to orange juice; as he had only received one 
note during the entire year he was sure, when the 
first owl landed with a thud in front of him, that it 
had made a mistake. 

“Who ’re you after?” he asked it, languidly removing 
his orange juice from underneath its beak and 
leaning forward to see the recipient’s name and 
address: 

Harry Potter 

Great Hall 

Hogwarts School 

Frowning, he made to take the letter from the owl, but 
before he could do so, three, four, five more owls had 
fluttered down beside it and were jockeying for 
position, treading in the butter, knocking over the 
salt, and each attempting to give him their letters 
first. 

“What’s going on?” Ron asked in amazement, as the 
whole of Gryffindor table leaned forward to watch as 
another seven owls landed amongst the first ones, 
screeching, hooting, and flapping their wings. 

“Harry!” said Hermione breathlessly, plunging her 
hands into the feathery mass and pulling out a 



Page | 737Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




screech owl bearing a long, cylindrical package. “I 
think I know what this means — open this one first!” 



Harry ripped off the brown packaging. Out rolled a 
tightly furled copy of March’s edition of The Quibbler. 
He unrolled it to see his own face grinning sheepishly 
at him from the front cover. In large red letters across 
his picture were the words: 

HARRY POTTER SPEAKS OUT AT LAST: 

THE TRUTH ABOUT HE-WHO-MUST-NOT-BE- 
NAMED 

AND THE NIGHT I SAW HIM RETURN 

“It’s good, isn’t it?” said Luna, who had drifted over to 
the Gryffindor table and now squeezed herself onto 
the bench between Fred and Ron. “It came out 
yesterday, I asked Dad to send you a free copy. I 
expect all these,” she waved a hand at the assembled 
owls still scrabbling around on the table in front of 
Harry, “are letters from readers.” 

“That’s what I thought,” said Hermione eagerly, 
“Harry, d’you mind if we — ?” 

“Help yourself,” said Harry, feeling slightly bemused. 

Ron and Hermione both started ripping open 
envelopes. 

“This one’s from a bloke who thinks you’re off your 
rocker,” said Ron, glancing down his letter. “Ah well 



“This woman recommends you try a good course of 
Shock Spells at St. Mungo’s,” said Hermione, looking 
disappointed and crumpling up a second. 

Page | 738Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“This one looks okay, though,” said Harry slowly, 
scanning a long letter from a witch in Paisley. “Hey, 
she says she believes me!” 

“This one’s in two minds,” said Fred, who had joined 
in the letter-opening with enthusiasm. “Says you 
don’t come across as a mad person, but he really 
doesn’t want to believe You-Know- Who’s back so he 
doesn’t know what to think now... Blimey, what a 
waste of parchment ...” 

“Here’s another one you’ve convinced, Harry!” said 
Hermione excitedly. “ ‘Having read your side of the 
story I am forced to the conclusion that the Daily 
Prophet has treated you very unfairly. . . Little though I 
want to think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has 
returned, I am forced to accept that you are telling 
the truth...’ Oh this is wonderful!” 

“Another one who thinks you’re barking,” said Ron, 
throwing a crumpled letter over his shoulder, “but 
this one says you’ve got her converted, and she now 
thinks you’re a real hero — she’s put in a photograph 
too — wow — ” 

“What is going on here?” said a falsely sweet, girlish 
voice. 

Harry looked up with his hands full of envelopes. 
Professor Umbridge was standing behind Fred and 
Luna, her bulging toad’s eyes scanning the mess of 
owls and letters on the table in front of Harry. Behind 
her he saw many of the students watching them 
avidly. 

“Why have you got all these letters, Mr. Potter?” she 
asked slowly. 



Page | 739Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Is that a crime now?” said Fred loudly. “Getting 
mail?” 

