
“Excellent,” said Fred, who had followed Harry 
through the portrait hole. “I need to visit Zonko’s. I’m 
nearly out of Stink Pellets.” 

Harry threw himself into a chair beside Ron, his high 
spirits ebbing away. Hermione seemed to read his 
mind. 

“Harry, I’m sure you’ll be able to go next time,” she 
said. “They’re bound to catch Black soon. He’s been 
sighted once already” 

“Black’s not fool enough to try anything in 
Hogsmeade,” said Ron. “Ask McGonagall if you can go 
this time, Harry. The next one might not be for ages 



“Ron\” said Hermione. “Harry’s supposed to stay in 
school — ” 

“He can’t be the only third year left behind,” said Ron. 
“Ask McGonagall, go on, Harry — ” 

“Yeah, I think I will,” said Harry, making up his mind. 



Page | 160 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione opened her mouth to argue, but at that 
moment Crookshanks leapt lightly onto her lap. A 
large, dead spider was dangling from his mouth. 

“Does he have to eat that in front of us?” said Ron, 
scowling. 

“Clever Crookshanks, did you catch that all by 
yourself?” said Hermione. 

Crookshanks slowly chewed up the spider, his yellow 
eyes fixed insolently on Ron. 

“Just keep him over there, that’s all,” said Ron 
irritably, turning back to his star chart. “I’ve got 
Scabbers asleep in my bag.” 

Harry yawned. He really wanted to go to bed, but he 
still had his own star chart to complete. He pulled his 
bag toward him, took out parchment, ink, and quill, 
and started work. 

“You can copy mine, if you like,” said Ron, labeling 
his last star with a flourish and shoving the chart 
toward Harry. 

Hermione, who disapproved of copying, pursed her 
lips but didn’t say anything. Crookshanks was still 
staring unblinkingly at Ron, flicking the end of his 
bushy tail. Then, without warning, he pounced. 

“OY!” Ron roared, seizing his bag as Crookshanks 
sank four sets of claws deep inside it and began 
tearing ferociously. “GET OFF, YOU STUPID ANIMAL!” 

Ron tried to pull the bag away from Crookshanks, but 
Crookshanks clung on, spitting and slashing. 



Page | 161 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron, don’t hurt him!” squealed Hermione; the whole 
common room was watching; Ron whirled the bag 
around, Crookshanks still clinging to it, and Scabbers 
came flying out of the top — 

“CATCH THAT CAT!” Ron yelled as Crookshanks freed 
himself from the remnants of the bag, sprang over the 
table, and chased after the terrified Scabbers. 

George Weasley made a lunge for Crookshanks but 
missed; Scabbers streaked through twenty pairs of 
legs and shot beneath an old chest of drawers. 
Crookshanks skidded to a halt, crouched low on his 
bandy legs, and started making furious swipes 
beneath it with his front paw. 

Ron and Hermione hurried over; Hermione grabbed 
Crookshanks around the middle and heaved him 
away; Ron threw himself onto his stomach and, with 
great difficulty, pulled Scabbers out by the tail. 

“Look at him!” he said furiously to Hermione, 
dangling Scabbers in front of her. “He’s skin and 
bone! You keep that cat away from him!” 

“Crookshanks doesn’t understand it’s wrong!” said 
Hermione, her voice shaking. “All cats chase rats, 
Ron!” 

“There’s something funny about that animal!” said 
Ron, who was trying to persuade a frantically wiggling 
Scabbers back into his pocket. “It heard me say that 
Scabbers was in my bag!” 

“Oh, what rubbish,” said Hermione impatiently. 
“Crookshanks could smell him, Ron, how else d’you 
think — ” 



Page | 162 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“That cat’s got it in for Scabbers!” said Ron, ignoring 
the people around him, who were starting to giggle. 
“And Scabbers was here first, and he’s ill!” 

Ron marched through the common room and out of 
sight up the stairs to the boys’ dormitories. 

Ron was still in a bad mood with Hermione next day. 
He barely talked to her all through Herbology, even 
though he, Harry, and Hermione were working 
together on the same puffapod. 

“How’s Scabbers?” Hermione asked timidly as they 
stripped fat pink pods from the plants and emptied 
the shining beans into a wooden pail. 

“He’s hiding at the bottom of my bed, shaking,” said 
Ron angrily, missing the pail and scattering beans 
over the greenhouse floor. 

“Careful, Weasley, careful!” cried Professor Sprout as 
the beans burst into bloom before their very eyes. 

They had Transfiguration next. Harry, who had 
resolved to ask Professor McGonagall after the lesson 
whether he could go into Hogsmeade with the rest, 
joined the line outside the class trying to decide how 
he was going to argue his case. He was distracted, 
however, by a disturbance at the front of the line. 

Lavender Brown seemed to be crying. Parvati had her 
arm around her and was explaining something to 
Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas, who were 
looking very serious. 

“What’s the matter, Lavender?” said Hermione 
anxiously as she, Harry, and Ron went to join the 
group. 



Page | 163 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“She got a letter from home this morning,” Parvati 
whispered. “It’s her rabbit, Binky. He’s been killed by 
a fox.” 

“Oh,” said Hermione, “I’m sorry, Lavender.” 

“I should have known!” said Lavender tragically. “You 
know what day it is?” 

“Er — ” 



“The sixteenth of October! That thing you’re dreading, 
it will happen on the sixteenth of October!’ 
Remember? She was right, she was right!” 

The whole class was gathered around Lavender now. 
Seamus shook his head seriously. Hermione 
hesitated; then she said, “You — you were dreading 
Binky being killed by a fox?” 

“Well, not necessarily by a fox,” said Lavender, 
looking up at Hermione with streaming eyes, “but I 
was obviously dreading him dying, wasn’t I?” 

“Oh,” said Hermione. She paused again. Then — 

“Was Binky an old rabbit?” 

“N — no!” sobbed Lavender. “H — he was only a 
baby!” 

Parvati tightened her arm around Lavender’s 
shoulders. 

“But then, why would you dread him dying?” said 
Hermione. 

Parvati glared at her. 



Page | 164 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, look at it logically,” said Hermione, turning to 
the rest of the group. “I mean, Binky didn’t even die 
today, did he? Lavender just got the news today — ” 
Lavender wailed loudly. “ — and she can’t have been 
dreading it, because it’s come as a real shock — ” 

“Don’t mind Hermione, Lavender,” said Ron loudly, 
“she doesn’t think other people’s pets matter very 
much.” 

Professor McGonagall opened the classroom door at 
that moment, which was perhaps lucky; Hermione 
and Ron were looking daggers at each other, and 
when they got into class, they seated themselves on 
either side of Harry and didn’t talk to each other for 
the whole class. 

Harry still hadn’t decided what he was going to say to 
Professor McGonagall when the bell rang at the end of 
the lesson, but it was she who brought up the subject 
of Hogsmeade first. 

“One moment, please!” she called as the class made 
to leave. “As you’re all in my House, you should hand 
Hogsmeade permission forms to me before Halloween. 
No form, no visiting the village, so don’t forget!” 

Neville put up his hand. 

“Please, Professor, I — I think I’ve lost — ” 

“Your grandmother sent yours to me directly, 
Longbottom,” said Professor McGonagall. “She 
seemed to think it was safer. Well, that’s all, you may 
leave.” 

“Ask her now,” Ron hissed at Harry. 

“Oh, but — ” Hermione began. 

Page | 165 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Go for it, Harry,” said Ron stubbornly. 

Harry waited for the rest of the class to disappear, 
then headed nervously for Professor McGonagall’s 
desk. 

“Yes, Potter?” 

Harry took a deep breath. 

“Professor, my aunt and uncle — er — forgot to sign 
my form,” he said. 

Professor McGonagall looked over her square 
spectacles at him but didn’t say anything. 

“So — er — d’you think it would be all right — I 
mean, will it be okay if I — if I go to Hogsmeade?” 

Professor McGonagall looked down and began 
shuffling papers on her desk. 

“I’m afraid not, Potter,” she said. “You heard what I 
said. No form, no visiting the village. That’s the rule.” 

“But — Professor, my aunt and uncle — you know, 
they’re Muggles, they don’t really understand about 
— about Hogwarts forms and stuff,” Harry said, while 
Ron egged him on with vigorous nods. “If you said I 
could go — ” 

“But I don’t say so,” said Professor McGonagall, 
standing up and piling her papers neatly into a 
drawer. “The form clearly states that the parent or 
guardian must give permission.” She turned to look at 
him, with an odd expression on her face. Was it pity? 
“I’m sorry, Potter, but that’s my final word. You had 
better hurry, or you’ll be late for your next lesson.” 



Page | 166 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




There was nothing to be done. Ron called Professor 
McGonagall a lot of names that greatly annoyed 
Hermione; Hermione assumed an “all-for-the-best” 
expression that made Ron even angrier, and Harry 
had to endure everyone in the class talking loudly 
and happily about what they were going to do first, 
once they got into Hogsmeade. 

“There’s always the feast,” said Ron, in an effort to 
cheer Harry up. “You know, the Halloween feast, in 
the evening.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry gloomily, “great.” 

The Halloween feast was always good, but it would 
taste a lot better if he was coming to it after a day in 
Hogsmeade with everyone else. Nothing anyone said 
made him feel any better about being left behind. 
Dean Thomas, who was good with a quill, had offered 
to forge Uncle Vernon’s signature on the form, but as 
Harry had already told Professor McGonagall he 
hadn’t had it signed, that was no good. Ron 
halfheartedly suggested the Invisibility Cloak, but 
Hermione stamped on that one, reminding Ron what 
Dumbledore had told them about the dementors 
being able to see through them. Percy had what were 
possibly the least helpful words of comfort. 

“They make a fuss about Hogsmeade, but I assure 
you, Harry, it’s not all it’s cracked up to be,” he said 
seriously. “All right, the sweetshop’s rather good, and 
Zonko’s Joke Shop’s frankly dangerous, and yes, the 
Shrieking Shack’s always worth a visit, but really, 
Harry, apart from that, you’re not missing anything.” 

On Halloween morning, Harry awoke with the rest 
and went down to breakfast, feeling thoroughly 
depressed, though doing his best to act normally. 



Page | 167 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well bring you lots of sweets back from 
Honeydukes,” said Hermione, looking desperately 
sorry for him. 

“Yeah, loads,” said Ron. He and Hermione had finally 
forgotten their squabble about Crookshanks in the 
face of Harry’s difficulties. 

“Don’t worry about me,” said Harry, in what he hoped 
was an offhand voice, “I’ll see you at the feast. Have a 
good time.” 

He accompanied them to the entrance hall, where 
Filch, the caretaker, was standing inside the front 
doors, checking off names against a long list, peering 
suspiciously into every face, and making sure that no 
one was sneaking out who shouldn’t be going. 

“Staying here, Potter?” shouted Malfoy, who was 
standing in line with Crabbe and Goyle. “Scared of 
passing the dementors?” 

Harry ignored him and made his solitary way up the 
marble staircase, through the deserted corridors, and 
back to Gryffindor Tower. 

“Password?” said the Fat Lady, jerking out of a doze. 

“Fortuna Major,” said Harry listlessly. 

The portrait swung open and he climbed through the 
hole into the common room. It was full of chattering 
first and second years, and a few older students, who 
had obviously visited Hogsmeade so often the novelty 
had worn off. 

“Harry! Harry! Hi, Harry!” 



Page | 168 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




It was Colin Creevey, a second year who was deeply in 
awe of Harry and never missed an opportunity to 
speak to him. 

“Aren’t you going to Hogsmeade, Harry? Why not? 
Hey” — Colin looked eagerly around at his friends — 
“you can come and sit with us, if you like, Harry!” 

“Er — no, thanks, Colin,” said Harry, who wasn’t in 
the mood to have a lot of people staring avidly at the 
scar on his forehead. “I — I’ve got to go to the library, 
got to get some work done.” 

After that, he had no choice but to turn right around 
and head back out of the portrait hole again. 

“What was the point waking me up?” the Fat Lady 
called grumpily after him as he walked away. 

Harry wandered dispiritedly toward the library, but 
halfway there he changed his mind; he didn’t feel like 
working. He turned around and came face-to-face 
with Filch, who had obviously just seen off the last of 
the Hogsmeade visitors. 

“What are you doing?” Filch snarled suspiciously. 

“Nothing,” said Harry truthfully. 

“Nothing!” spat Filch, his jowls quivering 
unpleasantly. “A likely story! Sneaking around on 
your own — why aren’t you in Hogsmeade buying 
Stink Pellets and Belch Powder and Whizzing Worms 
like the rest of your nasty little friends?” 

Harry shrugged. 



Page | 169 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, get back to your common room where you 
belong!” snapped Filch, and he stood glaring until 
Harry had passed out of sight. 

But Harry didn’t go back to the common room; he 
climbed a staircase, thinking vaguely of visiting the 
Owlery to see Hedwig, and was walking along another 
corridor when a voice from inside one of the rooms 
said, “Harry?” 

Harry doubled back to see who had spoken and met 
Professor Lupin, looking around his office door. 

“What are you doing?” said Lupin, though in a very 
different voice from Filch. “Where are Ron and 
Hermione?” 

“Hogsmeade,” said Harry, in a would-be casual voice. 

“Ah,” said Lupin. He considered Harry for a moment. 
“Why don’t you come in? I’ve just taken delivery of a 
grindylow for our next lesson.” 

“A what?” said Harry. 

He followed Lupin into his office. In the corner stood a 
very large tank of water. A sickly green creature with 
sharp little horns had its face pressed against the 
glass, pulling faces and flexing its long, spindly 
fingers. 

“Water demon,” said Lupin, surveying the grindylow 
thoughtfully. “We shouldn’t have much difficulty with 
him, not after the kappas. The trick is to break his 
grip. You notice the abnormally long fingers? Strong, 
but very brittle.” 

The grindylow bared its green teeth and then buried 
itself in a tangle of weeds in a corner. 

Page | 170 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Cup of tea?” Lupin said, looking around for his 
kettle. “I was just thinking of making one.” 

“All right,” said Harry awkwardly. 

Lupin tapped the kettle with his wand and a blast of 
steam issued suddenly from the spout. 

“Sit down,” said Lupin, taking the lid off a dusty tin. 
“I’ve only got teabags, I’m afraid — but I daresay 
you’ve had enough of tea leaves?” 

Harry looked at him. Lupin’s eyes were twinkling. 

“How did you know about that?” Harry asked. 

“Professor McGonagall told me,” said Lupin, passing 
Harry a chipped mug of tea. “You’re not worried, are 
you?” 

“No,” said Harry. 

He thought for a moment of telling Lupin about the 
dog he’d seen in Magnolia Crescent but decided not 
to. He didn’t want Lupin to think he was a coward, 
especially since Lupin already seemed to think he 
couldn’t cope with a boggart. 

Something of Harry’s thoughts seemed to have shown 
on his face, because Lupin said, “Anything worrying 
you, Harry?” 

“No,” Harry lied. He drank a bit of tea and watched 
the grindylow brandishing a fist at him. “Yes,” he said 
suddenly, putting his tea down on Lupin’s desk. “You 
know that day we fought the boggart? 

“Yes,” said Lupin slowly. 



Page | 171 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Why didn’t you let me fight it?” said Harry abruptly. 
Lupin raised his eyebrows. 

“I would have thought that was obvious, Harry,” he 
said, sounding surprised. 

Harry, who had expected Lupin to deny that he’d 
done any such thing, was taken aback. 

“Why?” he said again. 

“Well,” said Lupin, frowning slightly, “I assumed that 
if the boggart faced you, it would assume the shape of 
Lord Voldemort.” 

Harry stared. Not only was this the last answer he’d 
expected, but Lupin had said Voldemort ’s name. The 
only person Harry had ever heard say the name aloud 
(apart from himself) was Professor Dumbledore. 

“Clearly, I was wrong,” said Lupin, still frowning at 
Harry. “But I didn’t think it a good idea for Lord 
Voldemort to materialize in the staffroom. I imagined 
that people would panic.” 

“I didn’t think of Voldemort,” said Harry honestly. “I 
— I remembered those dementors.” 

“I see,” said Lupin thoughtfully. “Well, well ... I’m 
impressed.” He smiled slightly at the look of surprise 
on Harry’s face. “That suggests that what you fear 
most of all is — fear. Very wise, Harry.” 

Harry didn’t know what to say to that, so he drank 
some more tea. 

“So you’ve been thinking that I didn’t believe you 
capable of fighting the boggart?” said Lupin shrewdly. 

Page | 172 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well ... yeah,” said Harry. He was suddenly feeling a 
lot happier. “Professor Lupin, you know the 
dementors — ” 

He was interrupted by a knock on the door. 

“Come in,” called Lupin. 

The door opened, and in came Snape. He was 
carrying a goblet, which was smoking faintly, and 
stopped at the sight of Harry, his black eyes 
narrowing. 

“Ah, Severus,” said Lupin, smiling. “Thanks very 
much. Could you leave it here on the desk for me?” 

Snape set down the smoking goblet, his eyes 
wandering between Harry and Lupin. 

“I was just showing Harry my grindylow,” said Lupin 
pleasantly, pointing at the tank. 

“Fascinating,” said Snape, without looking at it. “You 
should drink that directly, Lupin.” 

“Yes, yes, I will,” said Lupin. 

“I made an entire cauldronful,” Snape continued. “If 
you need more.” 

“I should probably take some again tomorrow. Thanks 
very much, Severus.” 

“Not at all,” said Snape, but there was a look in his 
eye Harry didn’t like. He backed out of the room, 
unsmiling and watchful. 

Harry looked curiously at the goblet. Lupin smiled. 



Page | 173 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor Snape has very kindly concocted a potion 
for me,” he said. “I have never been much of a potion- 
brewer and this one is particularly complex.” He 
picked up the goblet and sniffed it. “Pity sugar makes 
it useless,” he added, taking a sip and shuddering. 

“Why — ?” Harry began. Lupin looked at him and 
answered the unfinished question. 

“I’ve been feeling a bit off-color,” he said. “This potion 
is the only thing that helps. I am very lucky to be 
working alongside Professor Snape; there aren’t many 
wizards who are up to making it.” 

Professor Lupin took another sip and Harry had a 
crazy urge to knock the goblet out of his hands. 

“Professor Snape’s very interested in the Dark Arts,” 
he blurted out. 

“Really?” said Lupin, looking only mildly interested as 
he took another gulp of potion. 

“Some people reckon — ” Harry hesitated, then 
plunged recklessly on, “some people reckon he’d do 
anything to get the Defense Against the Dark Arts 
job.” 

Lupin drained the goblet and pulled a face. 

“Disgusting,” he said. “Well, Harry, I’d better get back 
to work. I’ll see you at the feast later.” 

“Right,” said Harry, putting down his empty teacup. 

The empty goblet was still smoking. 

“There you go,” said Ron. “We got as much as we 
could carry.” 

Page | 174 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




A shower of brilliantly colored sweets fell into Harry’s 
lap. It was dusk, and Ron and Hermione had just 
turned up in the common room, pink-faced from the 
cold wind and looking as though they’d had the time 
of their lives. 

“Thanks,” said Harry, picking up a packet of tiny 
black Pepper Imps. “What’s Hogsmeade like? Where 
did you go?” 

By the sound of it — everywhere. Dervish and 
Banges, the wizarding equipment shop, Zonko’s Joke 
Shop, into the Three Broomsticks for foaming mugs of 
hot butterbeer, and many places besides. 

“The post office, Harry! About two hundred owls, all 
sitting on shelves, all color-coded depending on how 
fast you want your letter to get there!” 

“Honeydukes has got a new kind of fudge; they were 
giving out free samples, there’s a bit, look — ” 

“We think we saw an ogre, honestly, they get all sorts 
at the Three Broomsticks — ” 

“Wish we could have brought you some butterbeer, 
really warms you up — ” 

“What did you do?” said Hermione, looking anxious. 
“Did you get any work done?” 

“No,” said Harry. “Lupin made me a cup of tea in his 
office. And then Snape came in. ...” 

He told them all about the goblet. Ron’s mouth fell 
open. 

“ Lupin drank it?” he gasped. “Is he mad?” 



Page | 175 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione checked her watch. 



“We’d better go down, you know, the feast’ll be 
starting in five minutes. ...” They hurried through the 
portrait hole and into the crowd, still discussing 
Snape. 

“But if he — you know” — Hermione dropped her 
voice, glancing nervously around — “if he was trying 
to — to poison Lupin — he wouldn’t have done it in 
front of Harry.” 

“Yeah, maybe,” said Harry as they reached the 
entrance hall and crossed into the Great Hall. It had 
been decorated with hundreds and hundreds of 
candle-filled pumpkins, a cloud of fluttering live bats, 
and many flaming orange streamers, which were 
swimming lazily across the stormy ceiling like brilliant 
watersnakes. 

The food was delicious; even Hermione and Ron, who 
were full to bursting with Honeydukes sweets, 
managed second helpings of everything. Harry kept 
glancing at the staff table. Professor Lupin looked 
cheerful and as well as he ever did; he was talking 
animatedly to tiny little Professor Flitwick, the 
Charms teacher. Harry moved his eyes along the 
table, to the place where Snape sat. Was he imagining 
it, or were Snape ’s eyes flickering toward Lupin more 
often than was natural? 

The feast finished with an entertainment provided by 
the Hogwarts ghosts. They popped out of the walls 
and tables to do a bit of formation gliding; Nearly 
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor ghost, had a great 
success with a reenactment of his own botched 
beheading. 



Page | 176 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




It had been such a pleasant evening that Harry’s good 
mood couldn’t even be spoiled by Malfoy, who 
shouted through the crowd as they all left the hall, 
“The dementors send their love, Potter!” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed the rest of the 
Gryffindors along the usual path to Gryffindor Tower, 
but when they reached the corridor that ended with 
the portrait of the Fat Lady, they found it jammed 
with students. 

“Why isn’t anyone going in?” said Ron curiously. 

Harry peered over the heads in front of him. The 
portrait seemed to be closed. 

“Let me through, please,” came Percy’s voice, and he 
came bustling importantly through the crowd. 

“What’s the holdup here? You can’t all have forgotten 
the password — excuse me, I’m Head Boy — ” 

And then a silence fell over the crowd, from the front 
first, so that a chill seemed to spread down the 
corridor. They heard Percy say, in a suddenly sharp 
voice, “Somebody get Professor Dumbledore. Quick.” 

People’s heads turned; those at the back were 
standing on tiptoe. 

“What’s going on?” said Ginny, who had just arrived. 

A moment later, Professor Dumbledore was there, 
sweeping toward the portrait; the Gryffindors 
squeezed together to let him through, and Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione moved closer to see what the trouble 
was. 

“Oh, my — ” Hermione grabbed Harry’s arm. 



Page | 177 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The Fat Lady had vanished from her portrait, which 
had been slashed so viciously that strips of canvas 
littered the floor; great chunks of it had been torn 
away completely. 

Dumbledore took one quick look at the ruined 
painting and turned, his eyes somber, to see 
Professors McGonagall, Lupin, and Snape hurrying 
toward him. 

“We need to find her,” said Dumbledore. “Professor 
McGonagall, please go to Mr. Filch at once and tell 
him to search every painting in the castle for the Fat 
Lady.” 

“You’ll be lucky!” said a cackling voice. 

It was Peeves the Poltergeist, bobbing over the crowd 
and looking delighted, as he always did, at the sight 
of wreckage or worry. 

“What do you mean, Peeves?” said Dumbledore 
calmly, and Peeves’s grin faded a little. He didn’t dare 
taunt Dumbledore. Instead he adopted an oily voice 
that was no better than his cackle. 

“Ashamed, Your Headship, sir. Doesn’t want to be 
seen. She’s a horrible mess. Saw her running through 
the landscape up on the fourth floor, sir, dodging 
between the trees. Crying something dreadful,” he 
said happily. “Poor thing,” he added unconvincingly. 

“Did she say who did it?” said Dumbledore quietly. 

“Oh yes, Professorhead,” said Peeves, with the air of 
one cradling a large bombshell in his arms. “He got 
very angry when she wouldn’t let him in, you see.” 
Peeves flipped over and grinned at Dumbledore from 



Page | 178 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




between his own legs. “Nasty temper he’s got, that 
Sirius Black.” 



Page | 179 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




9 




GRIM DEFEAT 

Professor Dumbledore sent all the Gryffindors back to 
the Great Hall, where they were joined ten minutes 
later by the students from Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and 
Slytherin, who all looked extremely confused. 

“The teachers and I need to conduct a thorough 
search of the castle,” Professor Dumbledore told them 
as Professors McGonagall and Flitwick closed all 
doors into the hall. “I’m afraid that, for your own 
safety, you will have to spend the night here. I want 
the prefects to stand guard over the entrances to the 
hall and I am leaving the Head Boy and Girl in 
charge. Any disturbance should be reported to me 
immediately,” he added to Percy, who was looking 
immensely proud and important. “Send word with one 
of the ghosts.” 

Professor Dumbledore paused, about to leave the hall, 
and said, “Oh, yes, you’ll be needing ...” 

One casual wave of his wand and the long tables flew 
to the edges of the hall and stood themselves against 

Page | 180 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



the walls; another wave, and the floor was covered 
with hundreds of squashy purple sleeping bags. 

“Sleep well,” said Professor Dumbledore, closing the 
door behind him. 

The hall immediately began to buzz excitedly; the 
Gryffindors were telling the rest of the school what 
had just happened. 

“Everyone into their sleeping bags!” shouted Percy. 
“Come on, now, no more talking! Lights out in ten 
minutes!” 

“C’mon,” Ron said to Harry and Hermione; they seized 
three sleeping bags and dragged them into a corner. 

“Do you think Black’s still in the castle?” Hermione 
whispered anxiously. 

“Dumbledore obviously thinks he might be,” said Ron. 

“It’s very lucky he picked tonight, you know,” said 
Hermione as they climbed fully dressed into their 
sleeping bags and propped themselves on their elbows 
to talk. “The one night we weren’t in the tower. ...” 

“I reckon he’s lost track of time, being on the run,” 
said Ron. “Didn’t realize it was Halloween. Otherwise 
he’d have come bursting in here.” 

Hermione shuddered. 

All around them, people were asking one another the 
same question: “How did he get in?” 

“Maybe he knows how to Apparate,” said a Ravenclaw 
a few feet away. “Just appear out of thin air, you 
know.” 

Page | 181 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Disguised himself, probably,” said a Hufflepuff fifth 
year. 

“He could’ve flown in,” suggested Dean Thomas. 

“Honestly, am I the only person who’s ever bothered 
to read Hogwarts, A History?” said Hermione crossly 
to Harry and Ron. 

“Probably,” said Ron. “Why?” 

“Because the castle’s protected by more than walls, 
you know,” said Hermione. “There are all sorts of 
enchantments on it, to stop people entering by 
stealth. You can’t just Apparate in here. And I’d like 
to see the disguise that could fool those dementors. 
They’re guarding every single entrance to the 
grounds. They’d have seen him fly in too. And Filch 
knows all the secret passages, they’ll have them 
covered. ...” 

“The lights are going out now!” Percy shouted. “I want 
everyone in their sleeping bags and no more talking!” 

The candles all went out at once. The only light now 
came from the silvery ghosts, who were drifting about 
talking seriously to the prefects, and the enchanted 
ceiling, which, like the sky outside, was scattered 
with stars. What with that, and the whispering that 
still filled the hall, Harry felt as though he were 
sleeping outdoors in a light wind. 

Once every hour, a teacher would reappear in the hall 
to check that everything was quiet. Around three in 
the morning, when many students had finally fallen 
asleep, Professor Dumbledore came in. Harry watched 
him looking around for Percy, who had been prowling 
between the sleeping bags, telling people off for 
talking. Percy was only a short way away from Harry, 
Page | 182 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Ron, and Hermione, who quickly pretended to be 
asleep as Dumbledore’s footsteps drew nearer. 

“Any sign of him, Professor?” asked Percy in a 
whisper. 

“No. All well here?” 

“Everything under control, sir.” 

“Good. There’s no point moving them all now. I’ve 
