      Winifred’s face hardened; she drew herself up, and they walked to
      the carriage. And, all through that silent drive back to Green
      Street, the souls of both of them revolved a single thought:
      “Why, oh! why should I have to expose my misfortune to the public
      like this? Why have to employ spies to peer into my private
      troubles? They were not of my making.”




      CHAPTER V JOLLY SITS IN JUDGMENT


      The possessive instinct, which, so determinedly balked, was
      animating two members of the Forsyte family towards riddance of
      what they could no longer possess, was hardening daily in the
      British body politic. Nicholas, originally so doubtful concerning
      a war which must affect property, had been heard to say that
      these Boers were a pig-headed lot; they were causing a lot of
      expense, and the sooner they had their lesson the better. _He_
      would send out Wolseley! Seeing always a little further than
      other people—whence the most considerable fortune of all the
      Forsytes—he had perceived already that Buller was not the man—“a
      bull of a chap, who just went butting, and if they didn’t look
      out Ladysmith would fall.” This was early in December, so that
      when Black Week came, he was enabled to say to everybody: “I told
      you so.” During that week of gloom such as no Forsyte could
      remember, very young Nicholas attended so many drills in his
      corps, “The Devil’s Own,” that young Nicholas consulted the
      family physician about his son’s health and was alarmed to find
      that he was perfectly sound. The boy had only just eaten his
      dinners and been called to the bar, at some expense, and it was
      in a way a nightmare to his father and mother that he should be
      playing with military efficiency at a time when military
      efficiency in the civilian population might conceivably be
      wanted. His grandfather, of course, pooh-poohed the notion, too
      thoroughly educated in the feeling that no British war could be
      other than little and professional, and profoundly distrustful of
      Imperial commitments, by which, moreover, he stood to lose, for
      he owned De Beers, now going down fast, more than a sufficient
      sacrifice on the part of his grandson.

      At Oxford, however, rather different sentiments prevailed. The
      inherent effervescence of conglomerate youth had, during the two
      months of the term before Black Week, been gradually
      crystallising out into vivid oppositions. Normal adolescence,
      ever in England of a conservative tendency though not taking
      things too seriously, was vehement for a fight to a finish and a
      good licking for the Boers. Of this larger faction Val Dartie was
      naturally a member. Radical youth, on the other hand, a small but
      perhaps more vocal body, was for stopping the war and giving the
      Boers autonomy. Until Black Week, however, the groups were
      amorphous, without sharp edges, and argument remained but
      academic. Jolly was one of those who knew not where he stood. A
      streak of his grandfather old Jolyon’s love of justice prevented,
      him from seeing one side only. Moreover, in his set of “the best”
      there was a “jumping-Jesus” of extremely advanced opinions and
      some personal magnetism. Jolly wavered. His father, too, seemed
      doubtful in his views. And though, as was proper at the age of
      twenty, he kept a sharp eye on his father, watchful for defects
      which might still be remedied, still that father had an “air”
      which gave a sort of glamour to his creed of ironic tolerance.
      Artists, of course, were notoriously Hamlet-like, and to this
      extent one must discount for one’s father, even if one loved him.
      But Jolyon’s original view, that to “put your nose in where you
      aren’t wanted” (as the Uitlanders had done) “and then work the
      oracle till you get on top is not being quite the clean potato,”
      had, whether founded in fact or no, a certain attraction for his
      son, who thought a deal about gentility. On the other hand Jolly
      could not abide such as his set called “cranks,” and Val’s set
      called “smugs,” so that he was still balancing when the clock of
      Black Week struck. One—two—three, came those ominous repulses at
      Stormberg, Magersfontein, Colenso. The sturdy English soul
      reacting after the first cried, “Ah! but Methuen!” after the
      second: “Ah! but Buller!” then, in inspissated gloom, hardened.
      And Jolly said to himself: “No, damn it! We’ve got to lick the
      beggars now; I don’t care whether we’re right or wrong.” And, if
      he had known it, his father was thinking the same thought.

      That next Sunday, last of the term, Jolly was bidden to wine with
      “one of the best.” After the second toast, “Buller and damnation
      to the Boers,” drunk—no heel taps—in the college Burgundy, he
      noticed that Val Dartie, also a guest, was looking at him with a
      grin and saying something to his neighbour. He was sure it was
      disparaging. The last boy in the world to make himself
      conspicuous or cause public disturbance, Jolly grew rather red
      and shut his lips. The queer hostility he had always felt towards
      his second-cousin was strongly and suddenly reinforced. “All
      right!” he thought, “you wait, my friend!” More wine than was
      good for him, as the custom was, helped him to remember, when
      they all trooped forth to a secluded spot, to touch Val on the
      arm.

      “What did you say about me in there?”

      “Mayn’t I say what I like?”

      “No.”

      “Well, I said you were a pro-Boer—and so you are!”

      “You’re a liar!”

      “D’you want a row?”

      “Of course, but not here; in the garden.”

      “All right. Come on.”

      They went, eyeing each other askance, unsteady, and unflinching;
      they climbed the garden railings. The spikes on the top slightly
      ripped Val’s sleeve, and occupied his mind. Jolly’s mind was
      occupied by the thought that they were going to fight in the
      precincts of a college foreign to them both. It was not the
      thing, but never mind—the young beast!

      They passed over the grass into very nearly darkness, and took
      off their coats.

      “You’re not screwed, are you?” said Jolly suddenly. “I can’t
      fight you if you’re screwed.”

      “No more than you.”

      “All right then.”

      Without shaking hands, they put themselves at once into postures
      of defence. They had drunk too much for science, and so were
      especially careful to assume correct attitudes, until Jolly smote
      Val almost accidentally on the nose. After that it was all a dark
      and ugly scrimmage in the deep shadow of the old trees, with no
      one to call “time,” till, battered and blown, they unclinched and
      staggered back from each other, as a voice said:

      “Your names, young gentlemen?”

      At this bland query spoken from under the lamp at the garden
      gate, like some demand of a god, their nerves gave way, and
      snatching up their coats, they ran at the railings, shinned up
      them, and made for the secluded spot whence they had issued to
      the fight. Here, in dim light, they mopped their faces, and
      without a word walked, ten paces apart, to the college gate. They
      went out silently, Val going towards the Broad along the Brewery,
      Jolly down the lane towards the High. His head, still fumed, was
      busy with regret that he had not displayed more science, passing
      in review the counters and knockout blows which he had not
      delivered. His mind strayed on to an imagined combat, infinitely
      unlike that which he had just been through, infinitely gallant,
      with sash and sword, with thrust and parry, as if he were in the
      pages of his beloved Dumas. He fancied himself La Mole, and
      Aramis, Bussy, Chicot, and D’Artagnan rolled into one, but he
      quite failed to envisage Val as Coconnas, Brissac, or Rochefort.
      The fellow was just a confounded cousin who didn’t come up to
      Cocker. Never mind! He had given him one or two. “Pro-Boer!” The
      word still rankled, and thoughts of enlisting jostled his aching
      head; of riding over the veldt, firing gallantly, while the Boers
      rolled over like rabbits. And, turning up his smarting eyes, he
      saw the stars shining between the housetops of the High, and
      himself lying out on the Karoo (whatever that was) rolled in a
      blanket, with his rifle ready and his gaze fixed on a glittering
      heaven.

      He had a fearful “head” next morning, which he doctored, as
      became one of “the best,” by soaking it in cold water, brewing
      strong coffee which he could not drink, and only sipping a little
      Hock at lunch. The legend that “some fool” had run into him round
      a corner accounted for a bruise on his cheek. He would on no
      account have mentioned the fight, for, on second thoughts, it
      fell far short of his standards.

      The next day he went “down,” and travelled through to Robin Hill.
      Nobody was there but June and Holly, for his father had gone to
      Paris. He spent a restless and unsettled Vacation, quite out of
      touch with either of his sisters. June, indeed, was occupied with
      lame ducks, whom, as a rule, Jolly could not stand, especially
      that Eric Cobbley and his family, “hopeless outsiders,” who were
      always littering up the house in the Vacation. And between Holly
      and himself there was a strange division, as if she were
      beginning to have opinions of her own, which was so—unnecessary.
      He punched viciously at a ball, rode furiously but alone in
      Richmond Park, making a point of jumping the stiff, high hurdles
      put up to close certain worn avenues of grass—keeping his nerve
      in, he called it. Jolly was more afraid of being afraid than most
      boys are. He bought a rifle, too, and put a range up in the home
      field, shooting across the pond into the kitchen-garden wall, to
      the peril of gardeners, with the thought that some day, perhaps,
      he would enlist and save South Africa for his country. In fact,
      now that they were appealing for Yeomanry recruits the boy was
      thoroughly upset. Ought he to go? None of “the best,” so far as
      he knew—and he was in correspondence with several—were thinking
      of joining. If they _had_ been making a move he would have gone
      at once—very competitive, and with a strong sense of form, he
      could not bear to be left behind in anything—but to do it off his
      own bat might look like “swagger”. because of course it wasn’t
      really necessary. Besides, he did not want to go, for the other
      side of this young Forsyte recoiled from leaping before he
      looked. It was altogether mixed pickles within him, hot and
      sickly pickles, and he became quite unlike his serene and rather
      lordly self.

      And then one day he saw that which moved him to uneasy wrath—two
      riders, in a glade of the Park close to the Ham Gate, of whom she
      on the left-hand was most assuredly Holly on her silver roan, and
      he on the right-hand as assuredly that “squirt” Val Dartie. His
      first impulse was to urge on his own horse and demand the meaning
      of this portent, tell the fellow to “bunk,” and take Holly home.
      His second—to feel that he would look a fool if they refused. He
      reined his horse in behind a tree, then perceived that it was
      equally impossible to spy on them. Nothing for it but to go home
      and await her coming! Sneaking out with that young bounder! He
      could not consult with June, because she had gone up that morning
      in the train of Eric Cobbley and his lot. And his father was
      still in “that rotten Paris.” He felt that this was emphatically
      one of those moments for which he had trained himself,
      assiduously, at school, where he and a boy called Brent had
      frequently set fire to newspapers and placed them in the centre
      of their studies to accustom them to coolness in moments of
      danger. He did not feel at all cool waiting in the stable-yard,
      idly stroking the dog Balthasar, who queasy as an old fat monk,
      and sad in the absence of his master, turned up his face, panting
      with gratitude for this attention. It was half an hour before
      Holly came, flushed and ever so much prettier than she had any
      right to look. He saw her look at him quickly—guiltily of
      course—then followed her in, and, taking her arm, conducted her
      into what had been their grandfather’s study. The room, not much
      used now, was still vaguely haunted for them both by a presence
      with which they associated tenderness, large drooping white
      moustaches, the scent of cigar smoke, and laughter. Here Jolly,
      in the prime of his youth, before he went to school at all, had
      been wont to wrestle with his grandfather, who even at eighty had
      an irresistible habit of crooking his leg. Here Holly, perched on
      the arm of the great leather chair, had stroked hair curving
      silvery over an ear into which she would whisper secrets. Through
      that window they had all three sallied times without number to
      cricket on the lawn, and a mysterious game called “Wopsy-doozle,”
      not to be understood by outsiders, which made old Jolyon very
      hot. Here once on a warm night Holly had appeared in her
      “nighty,” having had a bad dream, to have the clutch of it
      released. And here Jolly, having begun the day badly by
      introducing fizzy magnesia into Mademoiselle Beauce’s new-laid
      egg, and gone on to worse, had been sent down (in the absence of
      his father) to the ensuing dialogue:

      “Now, my boy, you mustn’t go on like this.”

      “Well, she boxed my ears, Gran, so I only boxed hers, and then
      she boxed mine again.”

      “Strike a lady? That’ll never do! Have you begged her pardon?”

      “Not yet.”

      “Then you must go and do it at once. Come along.”

      “But she began it, Gran; and she had two to my one.”

      “My dear, it was an outrageous thing to do.”

      “Well, she lost her temper; and I didn’t lose mine.”

      “Come along.”

      “You come too, then, Gran.”

      “Well—this time only.”

      And they had gone hand in hand.

      Here—where the Waverley novels and Byron’s works and Gibbon’s
      _Roman Empire_ and Humboldt’s _Cosmos_, and the bronzes on the
      mantelpiece, and that masterpiece of the oily school, “Dutch
      Fishing-Boats at Sunset,” were fixed as fate, and for all sign of
      change old Jolyon might have been sitting there still, with legs
      crossed, in the arm chair, and domed forehead and deep eyes grave
      above _The Times_—here they came, those two grandchildren. And
      Jolly said:

      “I saw you and that fellow in the Park.”

      The sight of blood rushing into her cheeks gave him some
      satisfaction; she _ought_ to be ashamed!

      “Well?” she said.

      Jolly was surprised; he had expected more, or less.

      “Do you know,” he said weightily, “that he called me a pro-Boer
      last term? And I had to fight him.”

      “Who won?”

      Jolly wished to answer: “I should have,” but it seemed beneath
      him.

      “Look here!” he said, “what’s the meaning of it? Without telling
      anybody!”

      “Why should I? Dad isn’t here; why shouldn’t I ride with him?”

      “You’ve got me to ride with. I think he’s an awful young rotter.”

      Holly went pale with anger.

      “He isn’t. It’s your own fault for not liking him.”

      And slipping past her brother she went out, leaving him staring
      at the bronze Venus sitting on a tortoise, which had been
      shielded from him so far by his sister’s dark head under her soft
      felt riding hat. He felt queerly disturbed, shaken to his young
      foundations. A lifelong domination lay shattered round his feet.
      He went up to the Venus and mechanically inspected the tortoise.

      Why didn’t he like Val Dartie? He could not tell. Ignorant of
      family history, barely aware of that vague feud which had started
      thirteen years before with Bosinney’s defection from June in
      favour of Soames’ wife, knowing really almost nothing about Val
      he was at sea. He just _did_ dislike him. The question, however,
      was: What should he do? Val Dartie, it was true, was a
      second-cousin, but it was not the thing for Holly to go about
      with him. And yet to “tell” of what he had chanced on was against
      his creed. In this dilemma he went and sat in the old leather
      chair and crossed his legs. It grew dark while he sat there
      staring out through the long window at the old oak-tree, ample
      yet bare of leaves, becoming slowly just a shape of deeper dark
      printed on the dusk.

      “Grandfather!” he thought without sequence, and took out his
      watch. He could not see the hands, but he set the repeater going.
      “Five o’clock!” His grandfather’s first gold hunter watch,
      butter-smooth with age—all the milling worn from it, and dented
      with the mark of many a fall. The chime was like a little voice
      from out of that golden age, when they first came from St. John’s
      Wood, London, to this house—came driving with grandfather in his
      carriage, and almost instantly took to the trees. Trees to climb,
      and grandfather watering the geranium-beds below! What was to be
      done? Tell Dad he must come home? Confide in June?—only she was
      so—so sudden! Do nothing and trust to luck? After all, the Vac.
      would soon be over. Go up and see Val and warn him off? But how
      get his address? Holly wouldn’t give it him! A maze of paths, a
      cloud of possibilities! He lit a cigarette. When he had smoked it
      halfway through his brow relaxed, almost as if some thin old hand
      had been passed gently over it; and in his ear something seemed
      to whisper: “Do nothing; be nice to Holly, be nice to her, my
      dear!” And Jolly heaved a sigh of contentment, blowing smoke
      through his nostrils....

      But up in her room, divested of her habit, Holly was still
      frowning. “He is _not_—he is _not!_” were the words which kept
      forming on her lips.




      CHAPTER VI JOLYON IN TWO MINDS


      A little private hotel over a well-known restaurant near the Gare
      St. Lazare was Jolyon’s haunt in Paris. He hated his fellow
      Forsytes abroad—vapid as fish out of water in their well-trodden
      runs, the Opera, Rue de Rivoli, and Moulin Rouge. Their air of
      having come because they wanted to be somewhere else as soon as
      possible annoyed him. But no other Forsyte came near this haunt,
      where he had a wood fire in his bedroom and the coffee was
      excellent. Paris was always to him more attractive in winter. The
      acrid savour from woodsmoke and chestnut-roasting braziers, the
      sharpness of the wintry sunshine on bright rays, the open cafés
      defying keen-aired winter, the self-contained brisk boulevard
      crowds, all informed him that in winter Paris possessed a soul
      which, like a migrant bird, in high summer flew away.

      He spoke French well, had some friends, knew little places where
      pleasant dishes could be met with, queer types observed. He felt
      philosophic in Paris, the edge of irony sharpened; life took on a
      subtle, purposeless meaning, became a bunch of flavours tasted, a
      darkness shot with shifting gleams of light.

      When in the first week of December he decided to go to Paris, he
      was far from admitting that Irene’s presence was influencing him.
      He had not been there two days before he owned that the wish to
      see her had been more than half the reason. In England one did
      not admit what was natural. He had thought it might be well to
      speak to her about the letting of her flat and other matters, but
      in Paris he at once knew better. There was a glamour over the
      city. On the third day he wrote to her, and received an answer
      which procured him a pleasurable shiver of the nerves:

      “MY DEAR JOLYON,
          “It will be a happiness for me to see you.

      “IRENE.”

      He took his way to her hotel on a bright day with a feeling such
      as he had often had going to visit an adored picture. No woman,
      so far as he remembered, had ever inspired in him this special
      sensuous and yet impersonal sensation. He was going to sit and
      feast his eyes, and come away knowing her no better, but ready to
      go and feast his eyes again to-morrow. Such was his feeling, when
      in the tarnished and ornate little lounge of a quiet hotel near
      the river she came to him preceded by a small page-boy who
      uttered the word, “_Madame_,” and vanished. Her face, her smile,
      the poise of her figure, were just as he had pictured, and the
      expression of her face said plainly: “A friend!”

      “Well,” he said, “what news, poor exile?”

      “None.”

      “Nothing from Soames?”

      “Nothing.”

      “I have let the flat for you, and like a good steward I bring you
      some money. How do you like Paris?”

      While he put her through this catechism, it seemed to him that he
      had never seen lips so fine and sensitive, the lower lip curving
      just a little upwards, the upper touched at one corner by the
      least conceivable dimple. It was like discovering a woman in what
      had hitherto been a sort of soft and breathed-on statue, almost
      impersonally admired. She owned that to be alone in Paris was a
      little difficult; and yet, Paris was so full of its own life that
      it was often, she confessed, as innocuous as a desert. Besides,
      the English were not liked just now!

      “That will hardly be your case,” said Jolyon; “you should appeal
      to the French.”

      “It has its disadvantages.”

      Jolyon nodded.

      “Well, you must let _me_ take you about while I’m here. We’ll
      start to-morrow. Come and dine at my pet restaurant; and we’ll go
      to the Opéra-Comique.”

      It was the beginning of daily meetings.

      Jolyon soon found that for those who desired a static condition
      of the affections, Paris was at once the first and last place in
      which to be friendly with a pretty woman. Revelation was
      alighting like a bird in his heart, singing: “_Elle est ton rêve!
      Elle est ton rêve!_” Sometimes this seemed natural, sometimes
      ludicrous—a bad case of elderly rapture. Having once been
      ostracised by Society, he had never since had any real regard for
      conventional morality; but the idea of a love which she could
      never return—and how could she at his age?—hardly mounted beyond
      his subconscious mind. He was full, too, of resentment, at the
      waste and loneliness of her life. Aware of being some comfort to
      her, and of the pleasure she clearly took in their many little
      outings, he was amiably desirous of doing and saying nothing to
      destroy that pleasure. It was like watching a starved plant draw
      up water, to see her drink in his companionship. So far as they
      could tell, no one knew her address except himself; she was
      unknown in Paris, and he but little known, so that discretion
      seemed unnecessary in those walks, talks, visits to concerts,
      picture-galleries, theatres, little dinners, expeditions to
      Versailles, St. Cloud, even Fontainebleau. And time fled—one of
      those full months without past to it or future. What in his youth
      would certainly have been headlong passion, was now perhaps as
      deep a feeling, but far gentler, tempered to protective
      companionship by admiration, hopelessness, and a sense of
      chivalry—arrested in his veins at least so long as she was there,
      smiling and happy in their friendship, and always to him more
      beautiful and spiritually responsive: for her philosophy of life
      seemed to march in admirable step with his own, conditioned by
      emotion more than by reason, ironically mistrustful, susceptible
      to beauty, almost passionately humane and tolerant, yet subject
      to instinctive rigidities of which as a mere man he was less
      capable. And during all this companionable month he never quite
      lost that feeling with which he had set out on the first day as
      if to visit an adored work of art, a well-nigh impersonal desire.
      The future—inexorable pendant to the present he took care not to
      face, for fear of breaking up his untroubled manner; but he made
      plans to renew this time in places still more delightful, where
      the sun was hot and there were strange things to see and paint.
      The end came swiftly on the 20th of January with a telegram:

      “Have enlisted in Imperial Yeomanry.—JOLLY.”

      Jolyon received it just as he was setting out to meet her at the
      Louvre. It brought him up with a round turn. While he was
      lotus-eating here, his boy, whose philosopher and guide he ought
      to be, had taken this great step towards danger, hardship,
      perhaps even death. He felt disturbed to the soul, realising
      suddenly how Irene had twined herself round the roots of his
      being. Thus threatened with severance, the tie between them—for
      it had become a kind of tie—no longer had impersonal quality. The
      tranquil enjoyment of things in common, Jolyon perceived, was
      gone for ever. He saw his feeling as it was, in the nature of an
      infatuation. Ridiculous, perhaps, but so real that sooner or
      later it must disclose itself. And now, as it seemed to him, he
      could not, must not, make any such disclosure. The news of Jolly
      stood inexorably in the way. He was proud of this enlistment;
      proud of his boy for going off to fight for the country; for on
      Jolyon’s pro-Boerism, too, Black Week had left its mark. And so
      the end was reached before the beginning! Well, luckily he had
      never made a sign!

      When he came into the Gallery she was standing before the “Virgin
      of the Rocks,” graceful, absorbed, smiling and unconscious. “Have
      I to give up seeing _that?_” he thought. “It’s unnatural, so long
      as she’s willing that I should see her.” He stood, unnoticed,
      watching her, storing up the image of her figure, envying the
      picture on which she was bending that long scrutiny. Twice she
      turned her head towards the entrance, and he thought: “That’s for
      me!” At last he went forward.

      “Look!” he said.

      She read the telegram, and he heard her sigh.

      That sigh, too, was for him! His position was really cruel! To be
      loyal to his son he must just shake her hand and go. To be loyal
      to the feeling in his heart he must at least tell her what that
      feeling was. Could she, would she understand the silence in which
      he was gazing at that picture?

      “I’m afraid I must go home at once,” he said at last. “I shall
      miss all this awfully.”

      “So shall I; but, of course, you must go.”

      “Well!” said Jolyon holding out his hand.

      Meeting her eyes, a flood of feeling nearly mastered him.

      “Such is life!” he said. “Take care of yourself, my dear!”

      He had a stumbling sensation in his legs and feet, as if his
      brain refused to steer him away from her. From the doorway, he
      saw her lift her hand and touch its fingers with her lips. He
      raised his hat solemnly, and did not look back again.




      CHAPTER VII DARTIE VERSUS DARTIE


      The suit—Dartie _versus_ Dartie—for restitution of those conjugal
      rights concerning which Winifred was at heart so deeply
      undecided, followed the laws of subtraction towards day of
      judgment. This was not reached before the Courts rose for
      Christmas, but the case was third on the list when they sat
      again. Winifred spent the Christmas holidays a thought more
      fashionably than usual, with the matter locked up in her low-cut
      bosom. James was particularly liberal to her that Christmas,
      expressing thereby his sympathy, and relief, at the approaching
      dissolution of her marriage with that “precious rascal,” which
      his old heart felt but his old lips could not utter.

      The disappearance of Dartie made the fall in Consols a
      comparatively small matter; and as to the scandal—the real animus
      he felt against that fellow, and the increasing lead which
      property was attaining over reputation in a true Forsyte about to
      leave this world, served to drug a mind from which all allusions
      to the matter (except his own) were studiously kept. What worried
      him as a lawyer and a parent was the fear that Dartie might
      suddenly turn up and obey the Order of the Court when made. That
      would be a pretty how-de-do! The fear preyed on him in fact so
      much that, in presenting Winifred with a large Christmas cheque,
      he said: “It’s chiefly for that chap out there; to keep him from
      coming back.” It was, of course, to pitch away good money, but
      all in the nature of insurance against that bankruptcy which
      would no longer hang over him if only the divorce went through;
      and he questioned Winifred rigorously until she could assure him
      that the money had been sent. Poor woman!—it cost her many a pang
      to send what must find its way into the vanity-bag of “that
      creature!” Soames, hearing of it, shook his head. They were not
      dealing with a Forsyte, reasonably tenacious of his purpose. It
      was very risky without knowing how the land lay out there. Still,
      it would look well with the Court; and he would see that Dreamer
      brought it out. “I wonder,” he said suddenly, “where that ballet
      goes after the Argentine”; never omitting a chance of reminder;
      for he knew that Winifred still had a weakness, if not for
      Dartie, at least for not laundering him in public. Though not
      good at showing admiration, he admitted that she was behaving
      extremely well, with all her children at home gaping like young
      birds for news of their father—Imogen just on the point of coming
      out, and Val very restive about the whole thing. He felt that Val
      was the real heart of the matter to Winifred, who certainly loved
      him beyond her other children. The boy could spoke the wheel of
      this divorce yet if he set his mind to it. And Soames was very
      careful to keep the proximity of the preliminary proceedings from
      his nephew’s ears. He did more. He asked him to dine at the
      Remove, and over Val’s cigar introduced the subject which he knew
      to be nearest to his heart.

      “I hear,” he said, “that you want to play polo up at Oxford.”

      Val became less recumbent in his chair.

      “Rather!” he said.

      “Well,” continued Soames, “that’s a very expensive business. Your
      grandfather isn’t likely to consent to it unless he can make sure
      that he’s not got any other drain on him.” And he paused to see
      whether the boy understood his meaning.

      Val’s thick dark lashes concealed his eyes, but a slight grimace
      appeared on his wide mouth, and he muttered:

      “I suppose you mean my Dad!”

      “Yes,” said Soames; “I’m afraid it depends on whether he
      continues to be a drag or not;” and said no more, letting the boy
      dream it over.

      But Val was also dreaming in those days of a silver-roan palfrey
      and a girl riding it. Though Crum was in town and an introduction
      to Cynthia Dark to be had for the asking, Val did not ask;
      indeed, he shunned Crum and lived a life strange even to himself,
      except in so far as accounts with tailor and livery stable were
      concerned. To his mother, his sisters, his young brother, he
      seemed to spend this Vacation in “seeing fellows,” and his
      evenings sleepily at home. They could not propose anything in
      daylight that did not meet with the one response: “Sorry; I’ve
      got to see a fellow”; and he was put to extraordinary shifts to
      get in and out of the house unobserved in riding clothes; until,
      being made a member of the Goat’s Club, he was able to transport
      them there, where he could change unregarded and slip off on his
      hack to Richmond Park. He kept his growing sentiment religiously
      to himself. Not for a world would he breathe to the “fellows,”
      whom he was not “seeing,” anything so ridiculous from the point
      of view of their creed and his. But he could not help its
      destroying his other appetites. It was coming between him and the
      legitimate pleasures of youth at last on its own in a way which
      must, he knew, make him a milksop in the eyes of Crum. All he
      cared for was to dress in his last-created riding togs, and steal
      away to the Robin Hill Gate, where presently the silver roan
      would come demurely sidling with its slim and dark-haired rider,
      and in the glades bare of leaves they would go off side by side,
      not talking very much, riding races sometimes, and sometimes
      holding hands. More than once of an evening, in a moment of
      expansion, he had been tempted to tell his mother how this shy
      sweet cousin had stolen in upon him and wrecked his “life.” But
      bitter experience, that all persons above thirty-five were
      spoil-sports, prevented him. After all, he supposed he would have
      to go through with College, and she would have to “come out,”
      before they could be married; so why complicate things, so long
      as he could see her? Sisters were teasing and unsympathetic
      beings, a brother worse, so there was no one to confide in. Ah!
      And this beastly divorce business! What a misfortune to have a
      name which other people hadn’t! If only he had been called Gordon
      or Scott or Howard or something fairly common! But Dartie—there
      wasn’t another in the directory! One might as well have been
      named Morkin for all the covert it afforded! So matters went on,
      till one day in the middle of January the silver-roan palfrey and
      its rider were missing at the tryst. Lingering in the cold, he
      debated whether he should ride on to the house: But Jolly might
      be there, and the memory of their dark encounter was still fresh
      within him. One could not be always fighting with her brother! So
      he returned dismally to town and spent an evening plunged in
      gloom. At breakfast next day he noticed that his mother had on an
      unfamiliar dress and was wearing her hat. The dress was black
      with a glimpse of peacock blue, the hat black and large—she
      looked exceptionally well. But when after breakfast she said to
      him, “Come in here, Val,” and led the way to the drawing-room, he
      was at once beset by qualms. Winifred carefully shut the door and
      passed her handkerchief over her lips; inhaling the violette de
      Parme with which it had been soaked, Val thought: “Has she found
      out about Holly?”

      Her voice interrupted

      “Are you going to be nice to me, dear boy?”

      Val grinned doubtfully.

      “Will you come with me this morning....”

      “I’ve got to see....” began Val, but something in her face
      stopped him. “I say,” he said, “you don’t mean....”

      “Yes, I have to go to the Court this morning.” Already!—that d—-d
      business which he had almost succeeded in forgetting, since
      nobody ever mentioned it. In self-commiseration he stood picking
      little bits of skin off his fingers. Then noticing that his
      mother’s lips were all awry, he said impulsively: “All right,
      mother; I’ll come. The brutes!” What brutes he did not know, but
      the expression exactly summed up their joint feeling, and
      restored a measure of equanimity.

      “I suppose I’d better change into a ‘shooter,’” he muttered,
      escaping to his room. He put on the “shooter,” a higher collar, a
      pearl pin, and his neatest grey spats, to a somewhat blasphemous
      accompaniment. Looking at himself in the glass, he said, “Well,
      I’m damned if I’m going to show anything!” and went down. He
      found his grandfather’s carriage at the door, and his mother in
      furs, with the appearance of one going to a Mansion House
      Assembly. They seated themselves side by side in the closed
      barouche, and all the way to the Courts of Justice Val made but
      one allusion to the business in hand. “There’ll be nothing about
      those pearls, will there?”

      The little tufted white tails of Winifred’s muff began to shiver.

      “Oh, no,” she said, “it’ll be quite harmless to-day. Your
      grandmother wanted to come too, but I wouldn’t let her. I thought
      you could take care of me. You look so nice, Val. Just pull your
      coat collar up a little more at the back—that’s right.”

      “If they bully you....” began Val.

      “Oh! they won’t. I shall be very cool. It’s the only way.”

      “They won’t want me to give evidence or anything?”

      “No, dear; it’s all arranged.” And she patted his hand. The
      determined front she was putting on it stayed the turmoil in
      Val’s chest, and he busied himself in drawing his gloves off and
      on. He had taken what he now saw was the wrong pair to go with
      his spats; they should have been grey, but were deerskin of a
      dark tan; whether to keep them on or not he could not decide.
      They arrived soon after ten. It was his first visit to the Law
      Courts, and the building struck him at once.

      “By Jove!” he said as they passed into the hall, “this’d make
      four or five jolly good racket courts.”

      Soames was awaiting them at the foot of some stairs.

      “Here you are!” he said, without shaking hands, as if the event
      had made them too familiar for such formalities. “It’s Happerly
      Browne, Court I. We shall be on first.”

      A sensation such as he had known when going in to bat was playing
      now in the top of Val’s chest, but he followed his mother and
      uncle doggedly, looking at no more than he could help, and
      thinking that the place smelled “fuggy.” People seemed to be
      lurking everywhere, and he plucked Soames by the sleeve.

      “I say, Uncle, you’re not going to let those beastly papers in,
      are you?”

      Soames gave him the sideway look which had reduced many to
      silence in its time.

      “In here,” he said. “You needn’t take off your furs, Winifred.”

      Val entered behind them, nettled and with his head up. In this
      confounded hole everybody—and there were a good many of
      them—seemed sitting on everybody else’s knee, though really
      divided from each other by pews; and Val had a feeling that they
      might all slip down together into the well. This, however, was
      but a momentary vision—of mahogany, and black gowns, and white
      blobs of wigs and faces and papers, all rather secret and
      whispery—before he was sitting next his mother in the front row,
      with his back to it all, glad of her violette de Parme, and
      taking off his gloves for the last time. His mother was looking
      at him; he was suddenly conscious that she had really wanted him
      there next to her, and that he counted for something in this
      business.

      All right! He would show them! Squaring his shoulders, he crossed
      his legs and gazed inscrutably at his spats. But just then an
      “old Johnny” in a gown and long wig, looking awfully like a funny
      raddled woman, came through a door into the high pew opposite,
      and he had to uncross his legs hastily, and stand up with
      everybody else.

      “Dartie _versus_ Dartie!”

      It seemed to Val unspeakably disgusting to have one’s name called
      out like this in public! And, suddenly conscious that someone
      nearly behind him had begun talking about his family, he screwed
      his face round to see an old be-wigged buffer, who spoke as if he
      were eating his own words—queer-looking old cuss, the sort of man
      he had seen once or twice dining at Park Lane and punishing the
      port; he knew now where they “dug them up.” All the same he found
      the old buffer quite fascinating, and would have continued to
      stare if his mother had not touched his arm. Reduced to gazing
      before him, he fixed his eyes on the Judge’s face instead. Why
      should that old “sportsman” with his sarcastic mouth and his
      quick-moving eyes have the power to meddle with their private
      affairs—hadn’t he affairs of his own, just as many, and probably
      just as nasty? And there moved in Val, like an illness, all the
      deep-seated individualism of his breed. The voice behind him
      droned along: “Differences about money matters—extravagance of
      the respondent” (What a word! Was that his father?)—“strained
      situation—frequent absences on the part of Mr. Dartie. My client,
      very rightly, your Ludship will agree, was anxious to check a
      course—but lead to ruin—remonstrated—gambling at cards and on the
      racecourse—” (“That’s right!” thought Val, “pile it on!”) “Crisis
      early in October, when the respondent wrote her this letter from
      his Club.” Val sat up and his ears burned. “I propose to read it
      with the emendations necessary to the epistle of a gentleman who
      has been—shall we say dining, me Lud?”

      “Old brute!” thought Val, flushing deeper; “you’re not paid to
      make jokes!”

      “‘You will not get the chance to insult me again in my own house.
      I am leaving the country to-morrow. It’s played out’—an
      expression, your Ludship, not unknown in the mouths of those who
      have not met with conspicuous success.”

      “Sniggering owls!” thought Val, and his flush deepened.

      “‘I am tired of being insulted by you.’ My client will tell your
      Ludship that these so-called insults consisted in her calling him
      ‘the limit’,—a very mild expression, I venture to suggest, in all
      the circumstances.”

      Val glanced sideways at his mother’s impassive face, it had a
      hunted look in the eyes. “Poor mother,” he thought, and touched
      her arm with his own. The voice behind droned on.

      “‘I am going to live a new life. M. D.’”

      “And next day, me Lud, the respondent left by the steamship
      _Tuscarora_ for Buenos Aires. Since then we have nothing from him
      but a cabled refusal in answer to the letter which my client
      wrote the following day in great distress, begging him to return
      to her. With your Ludship’s permission. I shall now put Mrs.
      Dartie in the box.”

      When his mother rose, Val had a tremendous impulse to rise too
      and say: “Look here! I’m going to see you jolly well treat her
      decently.” He subdued it, however; heard her saying, “the truth,
      the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,” and looked up. She
      made a rich figure of it, in her furs and large hat, with a
      slight flush on her cheek-bones, calm, matter-of-fact; and he
      felt proud of her thus confronting all these “confounded
      lawyers.” The examination began. Knowing that this was only the
      preliminary to divorce, Val followed with a certain glee the
      questions framed so as to give the impression that she really
      wanted his father back. It seemed to him that they were “foxing
      Old Bagwigs finely.”

      And he received a most unpleasant jar when the Judge said
      suddenly:

      “Now, why did your husband leave you—not because you called him
      ‘the limit,’ you know?”

      Val saw his uncle lift his eyes to the witness box, without
      moving his face; heard a shuffle of papers behind him; and
      instinct told him that the issue was in peril. Had Uncle Soames
      and the old buffer behind made a mess of it? His mother was
      speaking with a slight drawl.

      “No, my Lord, but it had gone on a long time.”

      “What had gone on?”

      “Our differences about money.”

      “But you supplied the money. Do you suggest that he left you to
      better his position?”

      “The brute! The old brute, and nothing but the brute!” thought
      Val suddenly. “He smells a rat he’s trying to get at the pastry!”
      And his heart stood still. If—if he did, then, of course, he
      would know that his mother didn’t really want his father back.
      His mother spoke again, a thought more fashionably.

      “No, my Lord, but you see I had refused to give him any more
      money. It took him a long time to believe that, but he did at
      last—and when he did....”

      “I see, you had refused. But you’ve sent him some since.”

      “My Lord, I wanted him back.”

      “And you thought that would bring him?”

      “I don’t know, my Lord, I acted on my father’s advice.”

      Something in the Judge’s face, in the sound of the papers behind
      him, in the sudden crossing of his uncle’s legs, told Val that
      she had made just the right answer. “Crafty!” he thought; “by
      Jove, what humbug it all is!”

      The Judge was speaking:

      “Just one more question, Mrs. Dartie. Are you still fond of your
      husband?”

      Val’s hands, slack behind him, became fists. What business had
      that Judge to make things human suddenly? To make his mother
      speak out of her heart, and say what, perhaps, she didn’t know
      herself, before all these people! It wasn’t decent. His mother
      answered, rather low: “Yes, my Lord.” Val saw the Judge nod.
      “Wish I could take a cock-shy at your head!” he thought
      irreverently, as his mother came back to her seat beside him.
      Witnesses to his father’s departure and continued absence
      followed—one of their own maids even, which struck Val as
      particularly beastly; there was more talking, all humbug; and
      then the Judge pronounced the decree for restitution, and they
      got up to go. Val walked out behind his mother, chin squared,
      eyelids drooped, doing his level best to despise everybody. His
      mother’s voice in the corridor roused him from an angry trance.

      “You behaved beautifully, dear. It was such a comfort to have
      you. Your uncle and I are going to lunch.”

      “All right,” said Val; “I shall have time to go and see that
      fellow.” And, parting from them abruptly, he ran down the stairs
      and out into the air. He bolted into a hansom, and drove to the
      Goat’s Club. His thoughts were on Holly and what he must do
      before her brother showed her this thing in to-morrow’s paper.

      When Val had left them Soames and Winifred made their way to the
      Cheshire Cheese. He had suggested it as a meeting place with Mr.
      Bellby. At that early hour of noon they would have it to
      themselves, and Winifred had thought it would be “amusing” to see
      this far-famed hostelry. Having ordered a light repast, to the
      consternation of the waiter, they awaited its arrival together
      with that of Mr. Bellby, in silent reaction after the hour and a
      half’s suspense on the tenterhooks of publicity. Mr. Bellby
      entered presently, preceded by his nose, as cheerful as they were
      glum. Well! they had got the decree of restitution, and what was
      the matter with that!

      “Quite,” said Soames in a suitably low voice, “but we shall have
      to begin again to get evidence. He’ll probably try the divorce—it
      will look fishy if it comes out that we knew of misconduct from
      the start. His questions showed well enough that he doesn’t like
      this restitution dodge.”

      “Pho!” said Mr. Bellby cheerily, “he’ll forget! Why, man, he’ll
      have tried a hundred cases between now and then. Besides, he’s
      bound by precedent to give ye your divorce, if the evidence is
      satisfactory. We won’t let um know that Mrs. Dartie had knowledge
      of the facts. Dreamer did it very nicely—he’s got a fatherly
      touch about um!”

      Soames nodded.

      “And I compliment ye, Mrs. Dartie,” went on Mr. Bellby; “ye’ve a
      natural gift for giving evidence. Steady as a rock.”

      Here the waiter arrived with three plates balanced on one arm,
      and the remark: “I ’urried up the pudden, sir. You’ll find plenty
      o’ lark in it to-day.”

      Mr. Bellby applauded his forethought with a dip of his nose. But
      Soames and Winifred looked with dismay at their light lunch of
      gravified brown masses, touching them gingerly with their forks
      in the hope of distinguishing the bodies of the tasty little
      song-givers. Having begun, however, they found they were hungrier
      than they thought, and finished the lot, with a glass of port
      apiece. Conversation turned on the war. Soames thought Ladysmith
      would fall, and it might last a year. Bellby thought it would be
      over by the summer. Both agreed that they wanted more men. There
      was nothing for it but complete victory, since it was now a
      question of prestige. Winifred brought things back to more solid
      ground by saying that she did not want the divorce suit to come
      on till after the summer holidays had begun at Oxford, then the
      boys would have forgotten about it before Val had to go up again;
      the London season too would be over. The lawyers reassured her,
      an interval of six months was necessary—after that the earlier
      the better. People were now beginning to come in, and they
      parted—Soames to the city, Bellby to his chambers, Winifred in a
      hansom to Park Lane to let her mother know how she had fared. The
      issue had been so satisfactory on the whole that it was
      considered advisable to tell James, who never failed to say day
      after day that he didn’t know about Winifred’s affair, he
      couldn’t tell. As his sands ran out; the importance of mundane
      matters became increasingly grave to him, as if he were feeling:
      “I must make the most of it, and worry well; I shall soon have
      nothing to worry about.”

      He received the report grudgingly. It was a new-fangled way of
      going about things, and he didn’t know! But he gave Winifred a
      cheque, saying:

      “I expect you’ll have a lot of expense. That’s a new hat you’ve
      got on. Why doesn’t Val come and see us?”

      Winifred promised to bring him to dinner soon. And, going home,
      she sought her bedroom where she could be alone. Now that her
      husband had been ordered back into her custody with a view to
      putting him away from her for ever, she would try once more to
      find out from her sore and lonely heart what she really wanted.




      CHAPTER VIII THE CHALLENGE


      The morning had been misty, verging on frost, but the sun came
      out while Val was jogging towards the Roehampton Gate, whence he
      would canter on to the usual tryst. His spirits were rising
      rapidly. There had been nothing so very terrible in the morning’s
      proceedings beyond the general disgrace of violated privacy. “If
      we were engaged!” he thought, “what happens wouldn’t matter.” He
      felt, indeed, like human society, which kicks and clamours at the
      results of matrimony, and hastens to get married. And he galloped
      over the winter-dried grass of Richmond Park, fearing to be late.
      But again he was alone at the trysting spot, and this second
      defection on the part of Holly upset him dreadfully. He could not
      go back without seeing her to-day! Emerging from the Park, he
      proceeded towards Robin Hill. He could not make up his mind for
      whom to ask. Suppose her father were back, or her sister or
      brother were in! He decided to gamble, and ask for them all
      first, so that if he were in luck and they were not there, it
      would be quite natural in the end to ask for Holly; while if any
