
AGAINST DARK FORCES 

The Wizarding community is currently under threat 
from an organization calling itself the Death Eaters. 
Observing the following simple security guidelines will 
help protect you, your family, and your home from 
attack. 

1. You are advised not to leave the house alone. 

2. Particular care should be taken during the 
hours of darkness. Wherever possible, arrange to 
complete journeys before night has fallen. 

3. Review the security arrangements around your 
house, making sure that all family members are 
aware of emergency measures such as Shield and 



Page | 46 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Disillusionment Charms, and, in the case of underage 
family members, Side-Along-Apparition. 

4. Agree on security questions with close friends 
and family so as to detect Death Eaters masquerading 
as others by use of the Polyjuice Potion (see page 2). 

5. Should you feel that a family member, 
colleague, friend, or neighbor is acting in a strange 
manner, contact the Magical Law Enforcement Squad 
at once. They may have been put under the Imperius 
Curse (see page 4). 

6. Should the Dark Mark appear over any dwelling 
place or other building, DO NOT ENTER, but contact 
the Auror office immediately. 

7. Unconfirmed sightings suggest that the Death 
Eaters may now be using Inferi (see page 10). Any 
sighting of an Inferius, or encounter with same, 
should be reported to the Ministry IMMEDIATELY. 

Harry grunted in his sleep and his face slid down the 
window an inch or so, making his glasses still more 
lopsided, but he did not wake up. An alarm clock, 
repaired by Harry several years ago, ticked loudly on 
the sill, showing one minute to eleven. Beside it, held 
in place by Harry’s relaxed hand, was a piece of 
parchment covered in thin, slanting writing. Harry 
had read this letter so often since its arrival three 
days ago that although it had been delivered in a 
tightly furled scroll, it now lay quite flat. 

Dear Harry, 

If it is convenient to you, I shall call at number four, 
Privet Drive this coming Friday at eleven p.m. to escort 
you to the Burrow, where you have been invited to 
spend the remainder of your school holidays. 

Page | 47 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




If you are agreeable, I should also be glad of your 
assistance in a matter to which I hope to attend on the 
way to the Burrow. I shall explain this more fully when 
I see you. 

Kindly send your answer by return of this owl. Hoping 
to see you this Friday, 

I am, yours most sincerely, 

Albus Dumbledore 

Though he already knew it by heart, Harry had been 
stealing glances at this missive every few minutes 
since seven o’clock that evening, when he had first 
taken up his position beside his bedroom window, 
which had a reasonable view of both ends of Privet 
Drive. He knew it was pointless to keep rereading 
Dumbledore ’s words; Harry had sent back his “yes” 
with the delivering owl, as requested, and all he could 
do now was wait: Either Dumbledore was going to 
come, or he was not. 

But Harry had not packed. It just seemed too good to 
be true that he was going to be rescued from the 
Dursleys after a mere fortnight of their company. He 
could not shrug off the feeling that something was 
going to go wrong — his reply to Dumbledore ’s letter 
might have gone astray; Dumbledore could be 
prevented from collecting him; the letter might turn 
out not to be from Dumbledore at all, but a trick or 
joke or trap. Harry had not been able to face packing 
and then being let down and having to unpack again. 
The only gesture he had made to the possibility of a 
journey was to shut his snowy owl, Hedwig, safely in 
her cage. 



Page | 48 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




The minute hand on the alarm clock reached the 
number twelve and, at that precise moment, the 
streetlamp outside the window went out. 

Harry awoke as though the sudden darkness were an 
alarm. Hastily straightening his glasses and 
unsticking his cheek from the glass, he pressed his 
nose against the window instead and squinted down 
at the pavement. A tall figure in a long, billowing 
cloak was walking up the garden path. 

Harry jumped up as though he had received an 
electric shock, knocked over his chair, and started 
snatching anything and everything within reach from 
the floor and throwing it into the trunk. Even as he 
lobbed a set of robes, two spellbooks, and a packet of 
crisps across the room, the doorbell rang. Downstairs 
in the living room his Uncle Vernon shouted, “Who 
the blazes is calling at this time of night?” 

Harry froze with a brass telescope in one hand and a 
pair of trainers in the other. He had completely 
forgotten to warn the Dursleys that Dumbledore 
might be coming. Feeling both panicky and close to 
laughter, he clambered over the trunk and wrenched 
open his bedroom door in time to hear a deep voice 
say, “Good evening. You must be Mr. Dursley. I 
daresay Harry has told you I would be coming for 
him?” 

Harry ran down the stairs two at a time, coming to an 
abrupt halt several steps from the bottom, as long 
experience had taught him to remain out of arm’s 
reach of his uncle whenever possible. There in the 
doorway stood a tall, thin man with waist-length 
silver hair and beard. Half-moon spectacles were 
perched on his crooked nose, and he was wearing a 
long black traveling cloak and a pointed hat. Vernon 
Dursley, whose mustache was quite as bushy as 
Page | 49 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore ’s, though black, and who was wearing a 
puce dressing gown, was staring at the visitor as 
though he could not believe his tiny eyes. 

“Judging by your look of stunned disbelief, Harry did 
not warn you that I was coming,” said Dumbledore 
pleasantly. “However, let us assume that you have 
invited me warmly into your house. It is unwise to 
linger overlong on doorsteps in these troubled times.” 

He stepped smartly over the threshold and closed the 
front door behind him. 

“It is a long time since my last visit,” said 
Dumbledore, peering down his crooked nose at Uncle 
Vernon. “I must say, your agapanthus are 
flourishing.” 

Vernon Dursley said nothing at all. Harry did not 
doubt that speech would return to him, and soon — 
the vein pulsing in his uncle’s temple was reaching 
danger point — but something about Dumbledore 
seemed to have robbed him temporarily of breath. It 
might have been the blatant wizardishness of his 
appearance, but it might, too, have been that even 
Uncle Vernon could sense that here was a man whom 
it would be very difficult to bully. 

“Ah, good evening Harry,” said Dumbledore, looking 
up at him through his half-moon glasses with a most 
satisfied expression. “Excellent, excellent.” 

These words seemed to rouse Uncle Vernon. It was 
clear that as far as he was concerned, any man who 
could look at Harry and say “excellent” was a man 
with whom he could never see eye to eye. 

“I don’t mean to be rude — ” he began, in a tone that 
threatened rudeness in every syllable. 

Page | 50 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




“ — yet, sadly, accidental rudeness occurs alarmingly 
often,” Dumbledore finished the sentence gravely. 
“Best to say nothing at all, my dear man. Ah, and this 
must be Petunia.” 

The kitchen door had opened, and there stood Harry’s 
aunt, wearing rubber gloves and a housecoat over her 
nightdress, clearly halfway through her usual pre- 
bedtime wipe-down of all the kitchen surfaces. Her 
rather horsey face registered nothing but shock. 

“Albus Dumbledore,” said Dumbledore, when Uncle 
Vernon failed to effect an introduction. “We have 
corresponded, of course.” Harry thought this an odd 
way of reminding Aunt Petunia that he had once sent 
her an exploding letter, but Aunt Petunia did not 
challenge the term. “And this must be your son, 
Dudley?” 

Dudley had that moment peered round the living 
room door. His large, blond head rising out of the 
stripy collar of his pajamas looked oddly disembodied, 
his mouth gaping in astonishment and fear. 
Dumbledore waited a moment or two, apparently to 
see whether any of the Dursleys were going to say 
anything, but as the silence stretched on he smiled. 

“Shall we assume that you have invited me into your 
sitting room? 

Dudley scrambled out of the way as Dumbledore 
passed him. Harry, still clutching the telescope and 
trainers, jumped the last few stairs and followed 
Dumbledore, who had settled himself in the armchair 
nearest the fire and was taking in the surroundings 
with an expression of benign interest. He looked quite 
extraordinarily out of place. 



Page | 51 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Aren’t — aren’t we leaving, sir?” Harry asked 
anxiously. 

“Yes, indeed we are, but there are a few matters we 
need to discuss first,” said Dumbledore. “And I would 
prefer not to do so in the open. We shall trespass 
upon your aunt and uncle’s hospitality only a little 
longer.” 

“You will, will you?” 

Vernon Dursley had entered the room, Petunia at his 
shoulder, and Dudley skulking behind them both. 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore simply, “I shall.” 

He drew his wand so rapidly that Harry barely saw it; 
with a casual flick, the sofa zoomed forward and 
knocked the knees out from under all three of the 
Dursley s so that they collapsed upon it in a heap. 
Another flick of the wand and the sofa zoomed back 
to its original position. 

“We may as well be comfortable,” said Dumbledore 
pleasantly. 

As he replaced his wand in his pocket, Harry saw that 
his hand was blackened and shriveled; it looked as 
though his flesh had been burned away. 

“Sir — what happened to your — ?” 

“Later, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Please sit down.” 

Harry took the remaining armchair, choosing not to 
look at the Dursleys, who seemed stunned into 
silence. 



Page | 52 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I would assume that you were going to offer me 
refreshment,” Dumbledore said to Uncle Vernon, “but 
the evidence so far suggests that that would be 
optimistic to the point of foolishness.” 

A third twitch of the wand, and a dusty bottle and five 
glasses appeared in midair. The bottle tipped and 
poured a generous measure of honey-colored liquid 
into each of the glasses, which then floated to each 
person in the room. 

“Madam Rosmerta’s finest oak-matured mead,” said 
Dumbledore, raising his glass to Harry, who caught 
hold of his own and sipped. He had never tasted 
anything like it before, but enjoyed it immensely. The 
Dursleys, after quick, scared looks at one another, 
tried to ignore their glasses completely, a difficult feat, 
as they were nudging them gently on the sides of their 
heads. Harry could not suppress a suspicion that 
Dumbledore was rather enjoying himself. 

“Well, Harry,” said Dumbledore, turning toward him, 
“a difficulty has arisen which I hope you will be able 
to solve for us. By us, I mean the Order of the 
Phoenix. But first of all I must tell you that Sirius’s 
will was discovered a week ago and that he left you 
everything he owned.” 

Over on the sofa, Uncle Vernon’s head turned, but 
Harry did not look at him, nor could he think of 
anything to say except, “Oh. Right.” 

“This is, in the main, fairly straightforward,” 
Dumbledore went on. “You add a reasonable amount 
of gold to your account at Gringotts, and you inherit 
all of Sirius’s personal possessions. The slightly 
problematic part of the legacy — ” 



Page | 53 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“His godfather’s dead?” said Uncle Vernon loudly from 
the sofa. Dumbledore and Harry both turned to look 
at him. The glass of mead was now knocking quite 
insistently on the side of Vernon’s head; he attempted 
to beat it away. “He’s dead? His godfather?” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. He did not ask Harry why he 
had not confided in the Dursleys. “Our problem,” he 
continued to Harry, as if there had been no 
interruption, “is that Sirius also left you number 
twelve, Grimmauld Place.” 

“He’s been left a house?” said Uncle Vernon greedily, 
his small eyes narrowing, but nobody answered him. 

“You can keep using it as headquarters,” said Harry. 

“I don’t care. You can have it, I don’t really want it.” 
Harry never wanted to set foot in number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place again if he could help it. He thought 
he would be haunted forever by the memory of Sirius 
prowling its dark musty rooms alone, imprisoned 
within the place he had wanted so desperately to 
leave. 

“That is generous,” said Dumbledore. “We have, 
however, vacated the building temporarily.” 

“Why?” 

“Well,” said Dumbledore, ignoring the mutterings of 
Uncle Vernon, who was now being rapped smartly 
over the head by the persistent glass of mead, “Black 
family tradition decreed that the house was handed 
down the direct line, to the next male with the name 
of ‘Black. ’ Sirius was the very last of the line as his 
younger brother, Regulus, predeceased him and both 
were childless. While his will makes it perfectly plain 
that he wants you to have the house, it is 
nevertheless possible that some spell or enchantment 
Page | 54 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




has been set upon the place to ensure that it cannot 
be owned by anyone other than a pureblood.” 



A vivid image of the shrieking, spitting portrait of 
Sirius’s mother that hung in the hall of number 
twelve, Grimmauld Place flashed into Harry’s mind. “I 
bet there has,” he said. 

“Quite,” said Dumbledore. “And if such an 
enchantment exists, then the ownership of the house 
is most likely to pass to the eldest of Sirius’s living 
relatives, which would mean his cousin, Bellatrix 
Lestrange.” 

Without realizing what he was doing, Harry sprang to 
his feet; the telescope and trainers in his lap rolled 
across the floor. Bellatrix Lestrange, Sirius’s killer, 
inherit his house? 

“No,” he said. 

“Well, obviously we would prefer that she didn’t get it 
either,” said Dumbledore calmly. “The situation is 
fraught with complications. We do not know whether 
the enchantments we ourselves have placed upon it, 
for example, making it Unplottable, will hold now that 
ownership has passed from Sirius’s hands. It might 
be that Bellatrix will arrive on the doorstep at any 
moment. Naturally we had to move out until such 
time as we have clarified the position.” 

“But how are you going to find out if I’m allowed to 
own it?” 

“Fortunately,” said Dumbledore, “there is a simple 
test.” 

He placed his empty glass on a small table beside his 
chair, but before he could do anything else, Uncle 

Page | 55 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Vernon shouted, “ Will you get these ruddy things off 
us?” 

Harry looked around; all three of the Dursleys were 
cowering with their arms over their heads as their 
glasses bounced up and down on their skulls, their 
contents flying everywhere. 

“Oh, I’m so sorry,” said Dumbledore politely, and he 
raised his wand again. All three glasses vanished. 

“But it would have been better manners to drink it, 
you know.” 

It looked as though Uncle Vernon was bursting with 
any number of unpleasant retorts, but he merely 
shrank back into the cushions with Aunt Petunia and 
Dudley and said nothing, keeping his small piggy eyes 
on Dumbledore ’s wand. 

“You see,” Dumbledore said, turning back to Harry 
and again speaking as though Uncle Vernon had not 
uttered, “if you have indeed inherited the house, you 
have also inherited — ” 

He flicked his wand for a fifth time. There was a loud 
crack, and a house-elf appeared, with a snout for a 
nose, giant bat’s ears, and enormous bloodshot eyes, 
crouching on the Dursleys’ shag carpet and covered 
in grimy rags. Aunt Petunia let out a hair-raising 
shriek; nothing this filthy had entered her house in 
living memory. Dudley drew his large, bare, pink feet 
off the floor and sat with them raised almost above 
his head, as though he thought the creature might 
run up his pajama trousers, and Uncle Vernon 
bellowed, “What the hell is that?” 

“Kreacher,” finished Dumbledore. 



Page | 56 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Kreacher won’t, Kreacher won’t, Kreacher won’t!” 
croaked the house-elf, quite as loudly as Uncle 
Vernon, stamping his long, gnarled feet and pulling 
his ears. “Kreacher belongs to Miss Bellatrix, oh yes, 
Kreacher belongs to the Blacks, Kreacher wants his 
new mistress, Kreacher won’t go to the Potter brat, 
Kreacher won’t, won’t, won’t — ” 

“As you can see, Harry,” said Dumbledore loudly, over 
Kreacher’s continued croaks of “won’t, won’t, won’t,” 
“Kreacher is showing a certain reluctance to pass into 
your ownership.” 

“I don’t care,” said Harry again, looking with disgust 
at the writhing, stamping house-elf. “I don’t want 
him.” 

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t — ” 

“You would prefer him to pass into the ownership of 
Bellatrix Lestrange? Bearing in mind that he has lived 
at the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix for 
the past year?” 

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t — ” 

Harry stared at Dumbledore. He knew that Kreacher 
could not be permitted to go and live with Bellatrix 
Lestrange, but the idea of owning him, of having 
responsibility for the creature that had betrayed 
Sirius, was repugnant. 

“Give him an order,” said Dumbledore. “If he has 
passed into your ownership, he will have to obey. If 
not, then we shall have to think of some other means 
of keeping him from his rightful mistress.” 

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, WON’T.” 



Page | 57 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Kreacher’s voice had risen to a scream. Harry could 
think of nothing to say, except, “Kreacher, shut up!” 

It looked for a moment as though Kreacher was going 
to choke. He grabbed his throat, his mouth still 
working furiously, his eyes bulging. After a few 
seconds of frantic gulping, he threw himself face 
forward onto the carpet (Aunt Petunia whimpered) 
and beat the floor with his hands and feet, giving 
himself over to a violent, but entirely silent, tantrum. 

“Well, that simplifies matters,” said Dumbledore 
cheerfully. “It seems that Sirius knew what he was 
doing. You are the rightful owner of number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place and of Kreacher.” 

“Do I — do I have to keep him with me?” Harry asked, 
aghast, as Kreacher thrashed around at his feet. 

“Not if you don’t want to,” said Dumbledore. “If I 
might make a suggestion, you could send him to 
Hogwarts to work in the kitchen there. In that way, 
the other house-elves could keep an eye on him.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry in relief, “yeah, I’ll do that. Er — 
Kreacher — I want you to go to Hogwarts and work in 
the kitchens there with the other house-elves.” 

Kreacher, who was now lying flat on his back with his 
arms and legs in the air, gave Harry one upside-down 
look of deepest loathing and, with another loud crack, 
vanished. 

“Good,” said Dumbledore. “There is also the matter of 
the hippogriff, Buckbeak. Hagrid has been looking 
after him since Sirius died, but Buckbeak is yours 
now, so if you would prefer to make different 
arrangements — ” 



Page | 58 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry at once, “he can stay with Hagrid. I 
think Buckbeak would prefer that.” 

“Hagrid will be delighted,” said Dumbledore, smiling. 
“He was thrilled to see Buckbeak again. Incidentally, 
we have decided, in the interests of Buckbeak’s 
safety, to rechristen him ‘Witherwings’ for the time 
being, though I doubt that the Ministry would ever 
guess he is the hippogriff they once sentenced to 
death. Now, Harry, is your trunk packed?” 

“Erm ...” 

“Doubtful that I would turn up?” Dumbledore 
suggested shrewdly. 

“I’ll just go and — er — finish off,” said Harry hastily, 
hurrying to pick up his fallen telescope and trainers. 

It took him a little over ten minutes to track down 
everything he needed; at last he had managed to 
extract his Invisibility Cloak from under the bed, 
screwed the top back on his jar of color-change ink, 
and forced the lid of his trunk shut on his cauldron. 
Then, heaving his trunk in one hand and holding 
Hedwig’s cage in the other, he made his way back 
downstairs. 

He was disappointed to discover that Dumbledore was 
not waiting in the hall, which meant that he had to 
return to the living room. 

Nobody was talking. Dumbledore was humming 
quietly, apparently quite at his ease, but the 
atmosphere was thicker than cold custard, and Harry 
did not dare look at the Dursleys as he said, 

“Professor — I’m ready now.” 



Page | 59 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Good,” said Dumbledore. “Just one last thing, then.” 
And he turned to speak to the Dursleys once more. 

“As you will no doubt be aware, Harry comes of age in 
a year’s time — ” 

“No,” said Aunt Petunia, speaking for the first time 
since Dumbledore’s arrival. 

“I’m sorry?” said Dumbledore politely. 

“No, he doesn’t. He’s a month younger than Dudley, 
and Dudders doesn’t turn eighteen until the year after 
next.” 

“Ah,” said Dumbledore pleasantly, “but in the 
Wizarding world, we come of age at seventeen.” 

Uncle Vernon muttered, “Preposterous,” but 
Dumbledore ignored him. 

“Now, as you already know, the wizard called Lord 
Voldemort has returned to this country. The 
Wizarding community is currently in a state of open 
warfare. Harry, whom Lord Voldemort has already 
attempted to kill on a number of occasions, is in even 
greater danger now than the day when I left him upon 
your doorstep fifteen years ago, with a letter 
explaining about his parents’ murder and expressing 
the hope that you would care for him as though he 
were your own.” 

Dumbledore paused, and although his voice remained 
light and calm, and he gave no obvious sign of anger, 
Harry felt a kind of chill emanating from him and 
noticed that the Dursleys drew very slightly closer 
together. 



Page | 60 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You did not do as I asked. You have never treated 
Harry as a son. He has known nothing but neglect 
and often cruelty at your hands. The best that can be 
said is that he has at least escaped the appalling 
damage you have inflicted upon the unfortunate boy 
sitting between you.” 

Both Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon looked around 
instinctively, as though expecting to see someone 
other than Dudley squeezed between them. 

“Us — mistreat Dudders? What d’you — ?” began 
Uncle Vernon furiously, but Dumbledore raised his 
finger for silence, a silence which fell as though he 
had struck Uncle Vernon dumb. 

“The magic I evoked fifteen years ago means that 
Harry has powerful protection while he can still call 
this house ‘home.’ However miserable he has been 
here, however unwelcome, however badly treated, you 
have at least, grudgingly, allowed him houseroom. 
This magic will cease to operate the moment that 
Harry turns seventeen; in other words, at the moment 
he becomes a man. I ask only this: that you allow 
Harry to return, once more, to this house, before his 
seventeenth birthday, which will ensure that the 
protection continues until that time.” 

None of the Dursleys said anything. Dudley was 
frowning slightly, as though he was still trying to 
work out when he had ever been mistreated. Uncle 
Vernon looked as though he had something stuck in 
his throat; Aunt Petunia, however, was oddly flushed. 

“Well, Harry ... time for us to be off,” said Dumbledore 
at last, standing up and straightening his long black 
cloak. “Until we meet again,” he said to the Dursleys, 
who looked as though that moment could wait forever 



Page | 61 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




as far as they were concerned, and after doffing his 
hat, he swept from the room. 

“Bye,” said Harry hastily to the Dursleys, and followed 
Dumbledore, who paused beside Harry’s trunk, upon 
which Hedwig’s cage was perched. 

“We do not want to be encumbered by these just 
now,” he said, pulling out his wand again. “I shall 
send them to the Burrow to await us there. However, I 
would like you to bring your Invisibility Cloak ... just 
in case.” 

Harry extracted his cloak from his trunk with some 
difficulty, trying not to show Dumbledore the mess 
within. When he had stuffed it into an inside pocket 
of his jacket, Dumbledore waved his wand and the 
trunk, cage, and Hedwig vanished. Dumbledore then 
waved his wand again, and the front door opened 
onto cool, misty darkness. 

“And now, Harry, let us step out into the night and 
pursue that flighty temptress, adventure.” 



Page | 62 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






HORACE SLUGHORN 

Despite the fact that he had spent every waking 
moment of the past few days hoping desperately that 
Dumbledore would indeed come to fetch him, Harry 
felt distinctly awkward as they set off down Privet 
Drive together. He had never had a proper 
conversation with the headmaster outside of 
Hogwarts before; there was usually a desk between 
them. The memory of their last face-to-face encounter 
kept intruding too, and it rather heightened Harry’s 
sense of embarrassment; he had shouted a lot on that 
occasion, not to mention done his best to smash 
several of Dumbledore ’s most prized possessions. 

Dumbledore, however, seemed completely relaxed. 

“Keep your wand at the ready, Harry,” he said 
brightly. 

“But I thought I’m not allowed to use magic outside 
school, sir?” 



Page | 63 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“If there is an attack,” said Dumbledore, “I give you 
permission to use any counterjinx or curse that might 
occur to you. However, I do not think you need worry 
about being attacked tonight.” 

“Why not, sir?” 

“You are with me,” said Dumbledore simply. “This will 
do, Harry.” 

He came to an abrupt halt at the end of Privet Drive. 

“You have not, of course, passed your Apparition 
Test,” he said. 

“No,” said Harry. “I thought you had to be seventeen?” 

“You do,” said Dumbledore. “So you will need to hold 
on to my arm very tightly. My left, if you don’t mind — 
as you have noticed, my wand arm is a little fragile at 
the moment.” 

Harry gripped Dumbledore’s proffered forearm. 

“Very good,” said Dumbledore. “Well, here we go.” 

Harry felt Dumbledore’s arm twist away from him and 
redoubled his grip; the next thing he knew, everything 
went black; he was being pressed very hard from all 
directions; he could not breathe, there were iron 
bands tightening around his chest; his eyeballs were 
being forced back into his head; his eardrums were 
being pushed deeper into his skull and then — 

He gulped great lungfuls of cold night air and opened 
his streaming eyes. He felt as though he had just 
been forced through a very tight rubber tube. It was a 
few seconds before he realized that Privet Drive had 
vanished. He and Dumbledore were now standing in 
Page | 64 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




what appeared to be a deserted village square, in the 
center of which stood an old war memorial and a few 
benches. His comprehension catching up with his 
senses, Harry realized that he had just Apparated for 
the first time in his life. 

“Are you all right?” asked Dumbledore, looking down 
at him solicitously. “The sensation does take some 
getting used to.” 

“I’m fine,” said Harry, rubbing his ears, which felt as 
though they had left Privet Drive rather reluctantly. 
“But I think I might prefer brooms. ...” 

Dumbledore smiled, drew his traveling cloak a little 
more tightly around his neck, and said, “This way.” 

He set off at a brisk pace, past an empty inn and a 
few houses. According to a clock on a nearby church, 
it was almost midnight. 

“So tell me, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Your scar ... 
has it been hurting at all?” 

Harry raised a hand unconsciously to his forehead 
and rubbed the lightning-shaped mark. 

“No,” he said, “and IVe been wondering about that. I 
thought it would be burning all the time now 
Voldemort’s getting so powerful again.” 

He glanced up at Dumbledore and saw that he was 
wearing a satisfied expression. 

“I, on the other hand, thought otherwise,” said 
Dumbledore. “Lord Voldemort has finally realized the 
dangerous access to his thoughts and feelings you 
have been enjoying. It appears that he is now 
employing Occlumency against you.” 

Page | 65 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, I’m not complaining,” said Harry, who missed 
neither the disturbing dreams nor the startling 
flashes of insight into Voldemort’s mind. 

They turned a corner, passing a telephone box and a 
bus shelter. Harry looked sideways at Dumbledore 
again. “Professor?” 

“Harry?” 

“Er — where exactly are we?” 

“This, Harry, is the charming village of Budleigh 
Babberton.” 

“And what are we doing here?” 

“Ah yes, of course, I haven’t told you,” said 
Dumbledore. “Well, I have lost count of the number of 
times I have said this in recent years, but we are, 
once again, one member of staff short. We are here to 
persuade an old colleague of mine to come out of 
retirement and return to Hogwarts.” 

“How can I help with that, sir?” 

“Oh, I think we’ll find a use for you,” said Dumbledore 
vaguely. “Left here, Harry.” 

They proceeded up a steep, narrow street lined with 
houses. All the windows were dark. The odd chill that 
had lain over Privet Drive for two weeks persisted here 
too. Thinking of dementors, Harry cast a look over his 
shoulder and grasped his wand reassuringly in his 
pocket. 

“Professor, why couldn’t we just Apparate directly into 
your old colleague’s house?” 



Page | 66 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Because it would be quite as rude as kicking down 
the front door,” said Dumbledore. “Courtesy dictates 
that we offer fellow wizards the opportunity of denying 
us entry. In any case, most Wizarding dwellings are 
magically protected from unwanted Apparators. At 
Hogwarts, for instance — ” 

“ — you can’t Apparate anywhere inside the buildings 
or grounds,” said Harry quickly. “Hermione Granger 
told me.” 

“And she is quite right. We turn left again.” 

The church clock chimed midnight behind them. 

Harry wondered why Dumbledore did not consider it 
rude to call on his old colleague so late, but now that 
conversation had been established, he had more 
pressing questions to ask. 

“Sir, I saw in the Daily Prophet that Fudge has been 
sacked. ...” 

“Correct,” said Dumbledore, now turning up a steep 
side street. “He has been replaced, as I am sure you 
also saw, by Rufus Scrimgeour, who used to be Head 
of the Auror office.” 

“Is he ... Do you think he’s good?” asked Harry. 

“An interesting question,” said Dumbledore. “He is 
able, certainly. A more decisive and forceful 
personality than Cornelius.” 

“Yes, but I meant — ” 

“I know what you meant. Rufus is a man of action 
and, having fought Dark wizards for most of his 
working life, does not underestimate Lord Voldemort.” 



Page | 67 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not say anything 
about the disagreement with Scrimgeour that the 
Daily Prophet had reported, and he did not have the 
nerve to pursue the subject, so he changed it. “And ... 
sir ... I saw about Madam Bones.” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore quietly. “A terrible loss. She 
was a great witch. Just up here, I think — ouch.” 

He had pointed with his injured hand. 

“Professor, what happened to your — ?” 

“I have no time to explain now,” said Dumbledore. “It 
is a thrilling tale, I wish to do it justice.” 

He smiled at Harry, who understood that he was not 
being snubbed, and that he had permission to keep 
asking questions. 

“Sir — I got a Ministry of Magic leaflet by owl, about 
security measures we should all take against the 
Death Eaters. ...” 

“Yes, I received one myself,” said Dumbledore, still 
smiling. “Did you find it useful?” 

“Not really.” 

“No, I thought not. You have not asked me, for 
instance, what is my favorite flavor of jam, to check 
that I am indeed Professor Dumbledore and not an 
impostor.” 

“I didn’t ...” Harry began, not entirely sure whether he 
was being reprimanded or not. 

“For future reference, Harry, it is raspberry ... 
although of course, if I were a Death Eater, I would 

Page | 68 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




have been sure to research my own jam preferences 
before impersonating myself.” 

“Er ... right,” said Harry. “Well, on that leaflet, it said 
something about Inferi. What exactly are they? The 
