
But not until March did luck favor Ron at last. Harry 
was sitting in the tent entrance, on guard duty, 
staring idly at a clump of grape hyacinths that had 
forced their way through the chilly ground, when Ron 
shouted excitedly from inside the tent. 

“I’ve got it, I’ve got it! Password was Altars’! Get in 
here, Harry!” 

Roused for the first time in days from his 
contemplation of the Deathly Hallows, Harry hurried 
back inside the tent to find Ron and Hermione 
kneeling on the floor beside the little radio. Hermione, 
who had been polishing the sword of Gryffindor just 
for something to do, was sitting open-mouthed, 
staring at the tiny speaker, from which a most 
familiar voice was issuing. 

"... apologize for our temporary absence from the 
airwaves, which was due to a number of house calls 
in our area by those charming Death Eaters.” 

“But that’s Lee Jordan!” said Hermione. 

“I know!” beamed Ron. “Cool, eh?” 

"... now found ourselves another secure location,” Lee 
was saying, “and I’m pleased to tell you that two of 



Page | 494 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




our regular contributors have joined me here this 
evening. Evening, boys!” 

“Hi.” 

“Evening, River.” 

“ ‘River,’ that’s Lee,” Ron explained. “They’ve all got 
code names, but you can usually tell — ” 

“Shh!” said Hermione. 

“But before we hear from Royal and Romulus,” Lee 
went on, “let’s take a moment to report those deaths 
that the Wizarding Wireless Network News and Daily 
Prophet don’t think important enough to mention. It is 
with great regret that we inform our listeners of the 
murders of Ted Tonks and Dirk Cresswell.” 

Harry felt a sick, swooping in his belly. He, Ron, and 
Hermione gazed at one another in horror. 

“A goblin by the name of Gornuk was also killed. It is 
believed that Muggle-born Dean Thomas and a 
second goblin, both believed to have been traveling 
with Tonks, Cresswell, and Gornuk, may have 
escaped. If Dean is listening, or if anyone has any 
knowledge of his whereabouts, his parents and sisters 
are desperate for news. 

“Meanwhile, in Gaddley, a Muggle family of five has 
been found dead in their home. Muggle authorities 
are attributing the deaths to a gas leak, but members 
of the Order of the Phoenix inform me that it was the 
Killing Curse — more evidence, as if it were needed, of 
the fact that Muggle slaughter is becoming little more 
than a recreational sport under the new regime. 



Page | 495 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Finally, we regret to inform our listeners that the 
remains of Bathilda Bagshot have been discovered in 
Godric’s Hollow. The evidence is that she died several 
months ago. The Order of the Phoenix informs us that 
her body showed unmistakable signs of injuries 
inflicted by Dark Magic. 

“Listeners, I’d like to invite you now to join us in a 
minute’s silence in memory of Ted Tonks, Dirk 
Cresswell, Bathilda Bagshot, Gornuk, and the 
unnamed, but no less regretted, Muggles murdered 
by the Death Eaters.” 

Silence fell, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not 
speak. Half of Harry yearned to hear more, half of him 
was afraid of what might come next. It was the first 
time he had felt fully connected to the outside world 
for a long time. 

“Thank you,” said Lee’s voice. “And now we turn to 
regular contributor Royal, for an update on how the 
new Wizarding order is affecting the Muggle world.” 

“Thanks, River,” said an unmistakable voice, deep, 
measured, reassuring. 

“Kingsley!” burst out Ron. 

“We know!” said Hermione, hushing him. 

“Muggles remain ignorant of the source of their 
suffering as they continue to sustain heavy 
casualties,” said Kingsley. “However, we continue to 
hear truly inspirational stories of wizards and witches 
risking their own safety to protect Muggle friends and 
neighbors, often without the Muggles’ knowledge. I’d 
like to appeal to all our listeners to emulate their 
example, perhaps by casting a protective charm over 



Page | 496 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




any Muggle dwellings in your street. Many lives could 
be saved if such simple measures are taken.” 

“And what would you say, Royal, to those listeners 
who reply that in these dangerous times, it should be 
Wizards first’?” asked Lee. 

“I’d say that it’s one short step from Wizards first’ to 
‘Purebloods first,’ and then to ‘Death Eaters,’ ” replied 
Kingsley. “We’re all human, aren’t we? Every human 
life is worth the same, and worth saving.” 

“Excellently put, Royal, and you’ve got my vote for 
Minister of Magic if ever we get out of this mess,” said 
Lee. “And now, over to Romulus for our popular 
feature ‘Pals of Potter. ’ ” 

“Thanks, River,” said another very familiar voice; Ron 
started to speak, but Hermione forestalled him in a 
whisper. 

“We know it’s Lupin\” 

“Romulus, do you maintain, as you have every time 
you’ve appeared on our program, that Harry Potter is 
still alive?” 

“I do,” said Lupin firmly. “There is no doubt at all in 
my mind that his death would be proclaimed as 
widely as possible by the Death Eaters if it had 
happened, because it would strike a deadly blow at 
the morale of those resisting the new regime. The Boy 
Who Lived’ remains a symbol of everything for which 
we are fighting: the triumph of good, the power of 
innocence, the need to keep resisting.” 

A mixture of gratitude and shame welled up in Harry. 
Had Lupin forgiven him, then, for the terrible things 
he had said when they had last met? 

Page | 497 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“And what would you say to Harry if you knew he was 
listening, Romulus?” 



“I’d tell him we’re all with him in spirit,” said Lupin, 
then hesitated slightly. “And I’d tell him to follow his 
instincts, which are good and nearly always right.” 

Harry looked at Hermione, whose eyes were full of 
tears. 

“Nearly always right,” she repeated. 

“Oh, didn’t I tell you?” said Ron in surprise. “Bill told 
me Lupin’s living with Tonks again! And apparently 
she’s getting pretty big too. ...” 

“... and our usual update on those friends of Harry 
Potter’s who are suffering for their allegiance?” Lee 
was saying. 

“Well, as regular listeners will know, several of the 
more outspoken supporters of Harry Potter have now 
been imprisoned, including Xenophilius Lovegood, 
erstwhile editor of The Quibbler,” said Lupin. 

“At least he’s still alive!” muttered Ron. 

“We have also heard within the last few hours that 
Rubeus Hagrid” — all three of them gasped, and so 
nearly missed the rest of the sentence — “well-known 
gamekeeper at Hogwarts School, has narrowly 
escaped arrest within the grounds of Hogwarts, where 
he is rumored to have hosted a ‘Support Harry Potter’ 
party in his house. However, Hagrid was not taken 
into custody, and is, we believe, on the run.” 

“I suppose it helps, when escaping from Death Eaters, 
if you’ve got a sixteen-foot-high half brother?” asked 
Lee. 

Page | 498 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“It would tend to give you an edge,” agreed Lupin 
gravely. “May I just add that while we here at 
Potterwatch applaud Hagrid’s spirit, we would urge 
even the most devoted of Harry’s supporters against 
following Hagrid’s lead. ‘Support Harry Potter’ parties 
are unwise in the present climate.” 

“Indeed they are, Romulus,” said Lee, “so we suggest 
that you continue to show your devotion to the man 
with the lightning scar by listening to PotterwatcM 
And now let’s move to news concerning the wizard 
who is proving just as elusive as Harry Potter. We like 
to refer to him as the Chief Death Eater, and here to 
give his views on some of the more insane rumors 
circulating about him, I’d like to introduce a new 
correspondent: Rodent.” 

“ ‘Rodent’?” said yet another familiar voice, and Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione cried out together: 

“Fred!” 

“No — is it George?” 

“It’s Fred, I think,” said Ron, leaning in closer, as 
whichever twin it was said, 

“I’m not being ‘Rodent,’ no way, I told you I wanted to 
be ‘Rapier’!” 

“Oh, all right then. ‘Rapier,’ could you please give us 
your take on the various stories we’ve been hearing 
about the Chief Death Eater?” 

“Yes, River, I can,” said Fred. “As our listeners will 
know, unless they’ve taken refuge at the bottom of a 
garden pond or somewhere similar, You-Know-Who’s 
strategy of remaining in the shadows is creating a 
nice little climate of panic. Mind you, if all the alleged 
Page | 499 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




sightings of him are genuine, we must have a good 
nineteen You-Know-Whos running around the place.” 



“Which suits him, of course,” said Kingsley. “The air 
of mystery is creating more terror than actually 
showing himself.” 

“Agreed,” said Fred. “So, people, let’s try and calm 
down a bit. Things are bad enough without inventing 
stuff as well. For instance, this new idea that You- 
Know-Who can kill with a single glance from his eyes. 
That’s a basilisk, listeners. One simple test: Check 
whether the thing that’s glaring at you has got legs. If 
it has, it’s safe to look into its eyes, although if it 
really is You-Know-Who, that’s still likely to be the 
last thing you ever do.” 

For the first time in weeks and weeks, Harry was 
laughing: He could feel the weight of tension leaving 
him. 

“And the rumors that he keeps being sighted abroad?” 
asked Lee. 

“Well, who wouldn’t want a nice little holiday after all 
the hard work he’s been putting in?” asked Fred. 
“Point is, people, don’t get lulled into a false sense of 
security, thinking he’s out of the country. Maybe he 
is, maybe he isn’t, but the fact remains he can move 
faster than Severus Snape confronted with shampoo 
when he wants to, so don’t count on him being a long 
way away if you’re planning on taking any risks. I 
never thought I’d hear myself say it, but safety first!” 

“Thank you very much for those wise words, Rapier,” 
said Lee. “Listeners, that brings us to the end of 
another Potterwatch. We don’t know when it will be 
possible to broadcast again, but you can be sure we 
shall be back. Keep twiddling those dials: The next 
Page | 500 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




password will be ‘Mad-Eye.’ Keep each other safe: 
Keep faith. Good night.” 



The radio’s dial twirled and the lights behind the 
tuning panel went out. Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
were still beaming. Hearing familiar, friendly voices 
was an extraordinary tonic; Harry had become so 
used to their isolation he had nearly forgotten that 
other people were resisting Voldemort. It was like 
waking from a long sleep. 

“Good, eh?” said Ron happily. 

“Brilliant,” said Harry. 

“It’s so brave of them,” sighed Hermione admiringly. 
“If they were found ...” 

“Well, they keep on the move, don’t they?” said Ron. 
“Like us.” 

“But did you hear what Fred said?” asked Harry 
excitedly; now the broadcast was over, his thoughts 
turned again toward his all-consuming obsession. 
“He’s abroad! He’s still looking for the Wand, I knew 
it!” 



“Harry — ” 

“Come on, Hermione, why are you so determined not 
to admit it? Vol — ” 

“HARRY, NO!” 

“ — demort’s after the Elder Wand!” 

“The name’s Taboo!” Ron bellowed, leaping to his feet 
as a loud crack sounded outside the tent. “I told you, 
Harry, I told you, we can’t say it anymore — we’ve got 

Page | 501 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




to put the protection back around us — quickly — it’s 
how they find — ” 

But Ron stopped talking, and Harry knew why. The 
Sneakoscope on the table had lit up and begun to 
spin; they could hear voices coming nearer and 
nearer: rough, excited voices. Ron pulled the 
Deluminator out of his pocket and clicked it: Their 
lamps went out. 

“Come out of there with your hands up!” came a 
rasping voice through the darkness. “We know you’re 
in there! You’ve got half a dozen wands pointing at 
you and we don’t care who we curse!” 



Page | 502 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






MALFOY MANOR 

Harry looked around at the other two, now mere 
outlines in the darkness. He saw Hermione point her 
wand, not toward the outside, but into his face; there 
was a bang, a burst of white light, and he buckled in 
agony, unable to see. He could feel his face swelling 
rapidly under his hands as heavy footfalls 
surrounded him. 

“Get up, vermin.” 

Unknown hands dragged Harry roughly off the 
ground. Before he could stop them, someone had 
rummaged through his pockets and removed the 
blackthorn wand. Harry clutched at his excruciatingly 
painful face, which felt unrecognizable beneath his 
fingers, tight, swollen, and puffy as though he had 
suffered some violent allergic reaction. His eyes had 
been reduced to slits through which he could barely 
see; his glasses fell off as he was bundled out of the 
tent; all he could make out were the blurred shapes of 
four or five people wrestling Ron and Hermione 
outside too. 

Page | 503 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“Get — off — her!” Ron shouted. There was the 
unmistakable sound of knuckles hitting flesh: Ron 
grunted in pain and Hermione screamed, “No! Leave 
him alone, leave him alone!” 

“Your boyfriend’s going to have worse than that done 
to him if he’s on my list,” said the horribly familiar, 
rasping voice. “Delicious girl ... What a treat ... I do 
enjoy the softness of the skin. ...” 

Harry’s stomach turned over. He knew who this was: 
Fenrir Grey back, the werewolf who was permitted to 
wear Death Eater robes in return for his hired 
savagery. 

“Search the tent!” said another voice. 

Harry was thrown facedown onto the ground. A thud 
told him that Ron had been cast down beside him. 
They could hear footsteps and crashes; the men were 
pushing over chairs inside the tent as they searched. 

“Now, let’s see who we’ve got,” said Greyback’s 
gloating voice from overhead, and Harry was rolled 
over onto his back. A beam of wandlight fell into his 
face and Grey back laughed. 

“I’ll be needing butterbeer to wash this one down. 
What happened to you, ugly?” 

Harry did not answer immediately. 

“I said,” repeated Greyback, and Harry received a 
blow to the diaphragm that made him double over in 
pain, “what happened to you?” 

“Stung,” Harry muttered. “Been stung.” 

“Yeah, looks like it,” said a second voice. 

Page | 504 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s your name?” snarled Greyback. 

“Dudley,” said Harry. 

“And your first name?” 

“I — Vernon. Vernon Dudley.” 

“Check the list, Scabior,” said Greyback, and Harry 
heard him move sideways to look down at Ron, 
instead. “And what about you, ginger?” 

“Stan Shunpike,” said Ron. 

“Like ’ell you are,” said the man called Scabior. “We 
know Stan Shunpike, ’e’s put a bit of work our way.” 

There was another thud. 

“I’b Bardy,” said Ron, and Harry could tell that his 
mouth was full of blood. “Bardy Weadley.” 

“A Weasley?” rasped Greyback. “So you’re related to 
blood traitors even if you’re not a Mudblood. And 
lastly, your pretty little friend ...” The relish in his 
voice made Harry’s flesh crawl. 

“Easy, Greyback,” said Scabior over the jeering of the 
others. 

“Oh, I’m not going to bite just yet. We’ll see if she’s a 
bit quicker at remembering her name than Barny. 
Who are you, girly?” 

“Penelope Clearwater,” said Hermione. She sounded 
terrified, but convincing. 

“What’s your blood status?” 



Page | 505 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Half-blood,” said Hermione. 



“Easy enough to check,” said Scabior. “But the ’ole lot 
of ’em look like they could still be ’ogwarts age — ” 

“Weh lebt,” said Ron. 

“Left, ’ave you, ginger?” said Scabior. “And you 
decided to go camping? And you thought, just for a 
laugh, you’d use the Dark Lord’s name?” 

“Nod a laugh,” said Ron. “Aggiden.” 

“Accident?” There was more jeering laughter. 

“You know who used to like using the Dark Lord’s 
name, Weasley?” growled Greyback. “The Order of the 
Phoenix. Mean anything to you?” 

“Doh.” 

“Well, they don’t show the Dark Lord proper respect, 
so the name’s been Tabooed. A few Order members 
have been tracked that way. We’ll see. Bind them up 
with the other two prisoners!” 

Someone yanked Harry up by the hair, dragged him a 
short way, pushed him down into a sitting position, 
then started binding him back-to-back with other 
people. Harry was still half blind, barely able to see 
anything through his puffed-up eyes. When at last 
the man tying them had walked away, Harry 
whispered to the other prisoners. 

“Anyone still got a wand?” 

“No,” said Ron and Hermione from either side of him. 

“This is all my fault. I said the name, I’m sorry — ” 

Page | 506 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry?” 



It was a new, but familiar, voice, and it came from 
directly behind Harry, from the person tied to 
Hermione’s left. 

“Dean?” 

“It is you! If they find out who they’ve got — ! They’re 
Snatchers, they’re only looking for truants to sell for 
gold — ” 

“Not a bad little haul for one night,” Greyback was 
saying, as a pair of hobnailed boots marched close by 
Harry and they heard more crashes from inside the 
tent. “A Mudblood, a runaway goblin, and three 
truants. You checked their names on the list yet, 
Scabior?” he roared. 

“Yeah. There’s no Vernon Dudley on ’ere, Greyback.” 

“Interesting,” said Greyback. “That’s interesting.” 

He crouched down beside Harry, who saw, through 
the infinitesimal gap left between his swollen eyelids, 
a face covered in matted gray hair and whiskers, with 
pointed brown teeth and sores at the corners of his 
mouth. Greyback smelled as he had done at the top of 
the tower where Dumbledore had died: of dirt, sweat, 
and blood. 

“So you aren’t wanted, then, Vernon? Or are you on 
that list under a different name? What House were 
you in at Hogwarts?” 

“Slytherin,” said Harry automatically. 



Page | 507 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Funny ’ow they all thinks we wants to ’ear that,” 
jeered Scabior out of the shadows. “But none of ’em 
can tell us where the common room is.” 

“It’s in the dungeons,” said Harry clearly. “You enter 
through the wall. It’s full of skulls and stuff and it’s 
under the lake, so the light’s all green.” 

There was a short pause. 

“Well, well, looks like we really ’ave caught a little 
Slytherin,” said Scabior. “Good for you, Vernon, 

’cause there ain’t a lot of Mudblood Slytherins. Who’s 
your father?” 

“He works at the Ministry,” Harry lied. He knew that 
his whole story would collapse with the smallest 
investigation, but on the other hand, he only had 
until his face regained its usual appearance before 
the game was up in any case. “Department of Magical 
Accidents and Catastrophes.” 

“You know what, Greyback,” said Scabior. “I think 
there is a Dudley in there.” 

Harry could barely breathe: Could luck, sheer luck, 
get them safely out of this? 

“Well, well,” said Greyback, and Harry could hear the 
tiniest note of trepidation in that callous voice, and 
knew that Greyback was wondering whether he had 
indeed just attacked and bound the son of a Ministry 
official. Harry’s heart was pounding against the ropes 
around his ribs; he would not have been surprised to 
know that Greyback could see it. “If you’re telling the 
truth, ugly, you’ve got nothing to fear from a trip to 
the Ministry. I expect your father’ll reward us just for 
picking you up.” 



Page | 508 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But,” said Harry, his mouth bone dry, “if you just let 
us — ” 



“Hey!” came a shout from inside the tent. “Look at 
this, Greyback!” 

A dark figure came bustling toward them, and Harry 
saw a glint of silver in the light of their wands. They 
had found Gryffindor’s sword. 

“Ve-e-ry nice,” said Greyback appreciatively, taking it 
from his companion. “Oh, very nice indeed. Looks 
goblin-made, that. Where did you get something like 
this?” 

“It’s my father’s,” Harry lied, hoping against hope that 
it was too dark for Greyback to see the name etched 
just below the hilt. “We borrowed it to cut firewood — ” 

“ ’ang on a minute, Greyback! Look at this, in the 
Propheti” 

As Scabior said it, Harry’s scar, which was stretched 
tight across his distended forehead, burned savagely. 
More clearly than he could make out anything around 
him, he saw a towering building, a grim fortress, jet- 
black and forbidding; Voldemort’s thoughts had 
suddenly become razor-sharp again; he was gliding 
toward the gigantic building with a sense of calmly 
euphoric purpose. ... 

So close ...So close . . . 

With a huge effort of will Harry closed his mind to 
Voldemort’s thoughts, pulling himself back to where 
he sat, tied to Ron, Hermione, Dean, and Griphook in 
the darkness, listening to Greyback and Scabior. 



Page | 509 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ ‘’ermione Granger,’ ” Scabior was saying, “ ‘the 
Mudblood who is known to be traveling with ’arry 
Potter.’ ” 

Harry’s scar burned in the silence, but he made a 
supreme effort to keep himself present, not to slip 
into Voldemort’s mind. He heard the creak of 
Greyback’s boots as he crouched down in front of 
Hermione. 

“You know what, little girly? This picture looks a hell 
of a lot like you.” 

“It isn’t! It isn’t me!” 

Hermione ’s terrified squeak was as good as a 
confession. 

“ ‘... known to be traveling with Harry Potter,’ ” 
repeated Grey back quietly. 

A stillness had settled over the scene. Harry’s scar 
was exquisitely painful, but he struggled with all his 
strength against the pull of Voldemort’s thoughts: It 
had never been so important to remain in his own 
right mind. 

“Well, this changes things, doesn’t it?” whispered 
Greyback. Nobody spoke: Harry sensed the gang of 
Snatchers watching, frozen, and felt Hermione ’s arm 
trembling against his. Greyback got up and took a 
couple of steps to where Harry sat, crouching down 
again to stare closely at his misshapen features. 

“What’s that on your forehead, Vernon?” he asked 
softly, his breath foul in Harry’s nostrils as he 
pressed a filthy finger to the taut scar. 



Page | 510 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t touch it!” Harry yelled; he could not stop 
himself; he thought he might be sick from the pain of 
it. 



“I thought you wore glasses, Potter?” breathed 
Greyback. 

“I found glasses!” yelped one of the Snatchers 
skulking in the background. “There was glasses in the 
tent, Greyback, wait — ” 

And seconds later Harry’s glasses had been rammed 
back onto his face. The Snatchers were closing in 
now, peering at him. 

“It is!” rasped Greyback. “We’ve caught Potter!” 

They all took several steps backward, stunned by 
what they had done. Harry, still fighting to remain 
present inside his own splitting head, could think of 
nothing to say: Fragmented visions were breaking 
across the surface of his mind — 

— He was gliding around the high walls of the black 
fortress — 

No, he was Harry, tied up and wandless, in grave 
danger — 

— looking up, up to the topmost window, the highest 
tower — 

He was Harry, and they were discussing his fate in 
low voices — 

— Time to fly ... 

“...to the Ministry?” 

Page | 511 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“To hell with the Ministry,” growled Greyback. “They’ll 
take the credit, and we won’t get a look in. I say we 
take him straight to You-Know-Who.” 

“Will you summon ’im? ’ere?” said Scabior, sounding 
awed, terrified. 

“No,” snarled Greyback, “I haven’t got — they say he’s 
using the Malfoys’ place as a base. We’ll take the boy 
there.” 

Harry thought he knew why Greyback was not calling 
Voldemort. The werewolf might be allowed to wear 
Death Eater robes when they wanted to use him, but 
only Voldemort’s inner circle were branded with the 
Dark Mark: Greyback had not been granted this 
highest honor. 

Harry’s scar seared again — 

— and he rose into the night, flying straight up to the 
window at the very top of the tower — 

"... completely sure it’s him? ’Cause if it ain’t, 
Greyback, we’re dead.” 

“Who’s in charge here?” roared Greyback, covering his 
moment of inadequacy. “I say that’s Potter, and him 
plus his wand, that’s two hundred thousand Galleons 
right there! But if you’re too gutless to come along, 
any of you, it’s all for me, and with any luck, I’ll get 
the girl thrown in!” 

— The window was the merest slit in the black rock, 
not big enough for a man to enter. ...A skeletal figure 
was just visible through it, curled beneath a blanket. . . . 
Dead, or sleeping ... ? 



Page | 512 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“All right!” said Scabior. “All right, we’re in! And what 
about the rest of ’em, Greyback, what’ll we do with 



’em? 






“Might as well take the lot. We’ve got two Mudbloods, 
that’s another ten Galleons. Give me the sword as 
well. If they’re rubies, that’s another small fortune 
right there.” 

The prisoners were dragged to their feet. Harry could 
hear Hermione’s breathing, fast and terrified. 

“Grab hold and make it tight. I’ll do Potter!” said 
Greyback, seizing a fistful of Harry’s hair; Harry could 
feel his long yellow nails scratching his scalp. “On 
three! One — two — three — ” 

They Disapparated, pulling the prisoners with them. 
Harry struggled, trying to throw off Greyback’s hand, 
but it was hopeless: Ron and Hermione were 
squeezed tightly against him on either side, he could 
not separate from the group, and as the breath was 
squeezed out of him his scar seared more painfully 
still — 

— as he forced himself through the slit of a window 
like a snake and landed, lightly as vapor, inside the 
cell-like room — 

The prisoners lurched into one another as they 
landed in a country lane. Harry’s eyes, still puffy, took 
a moment to acclimatize, then he saw a pair of 
wrought-iron gates at the foot of what looked like a 
long drive. He experienced the tiniest trickle of relief. 
The worst had not happened yet: Voldemort was not 
here. He was, Harry knew, for he was fighting to 
resist the vision, in some strange, fortresslike place, 
at the top of a tower. How long it would take 



Page | 513 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort to get to this place, once he knew that 
Harry was here, was another matter. ... 

One of the Snatchers strode to the gates and shook 
them. 

“How do we get in? They’re locked, Greyback, I can’t 
— blimey!” 

He whipped his hands away in fright. The iron was 
contorting, twisting itself out of the abstract furls and 
coils into a frightening face, which spoke in a 
clanging, echoing voice: “State your purpose!” 

“We’ve got Potter!” Greyback roared triumphantly. 
“We’ve captured Harry Potter!” 

The gates swung open. 

“Come on!” said Greyback to his men, and the 
prisoners were shunted through the gates and up the 
drive, between high hedges that muffled their 
footsteps. Harry saw a ghostly white shape above 
him, and realized it was an albino peacock. He 
stumbled and was dragged onto his feet by Greyback; 
now he was staggering along sideways, tied back-to- 
back to the four other prisoners. Closing his puffy 
eyes, he allowed the pain in his scar to overcome him 
for a moment, wanting to know what Voldemort was 
doing, whether he knew yet that Harry was caught. ... 

The emaciated figure stirred beneath its thin blanket 
and rolled over toward him, eyes opening in a skull of 
a face. ... The frail man sat up, great sunken eyes 
fixed upon him, upon Voldemort, and then he smiled. 
Most of his teeth were gone. ... 

“So, you have come. I thought you would ... one day. 
But your journey was pointless. I never had it.” 

Page | 514 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ You lie]” 



As Voldemort’s anger throbbed inside him, Harry’s 
scar threatened to burst with pain, and he wrenched 
his mind back to his own body, fighting to remain 
present as the prisoners were pushed over gravel. 

Light spilled out over all of them. 

“What is this?” said a woman’s cold voice. 

“We’re here to see He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!” 
rasped Greyback. 

“Who are you?” 

“You know me!” There was resentment in the 
werewolf’s voice. “Fenrir Greyback! We’ve caught 
Harry Potter!” 

Greyback seized Harry and dragged him around to 
face the light, forcing the other prisoners to shuffle 
around too. 

“I know ’e’s swollen, ma’am, but it’s ’im!” piped up 
Scabior. “If you look a bit closer, you’ll see ’is scar. 
And this ’ere, see the girl? The Mudblood who’s been 
traveling around with ’im, ma’am. There’s no doubt 
it’s ’im, and we’ve got ’is wand as well! ’Ere, ma’am — ” 

Through his puffy eyelids Harry saw Narcissa Malfoy 
scrutinizing his swollen face. Scabior thrust the 
blackthorn wand at her. She raised her eyebrows. 

“Bring them in,” she said. 

Harry and the others were shoved and kicked up 
broad stone steps into a hallway lined with portraits. 



Page | 515 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Follow me,” said Narcissa, leading the way across the 
hall. “My son, Draco, is home for his Easter holidays. 
If that is Harry Potter, he will know.” 

The drawing room dazzled after the darkness outside; 
even with his eyes almost closed Harry could make 
out the wide proportions of the room. A crystal 
chandelier hung from the ceiling, more portraits 
against the dark purple walls. Two figures rose from 
chairs in front of an ornate marble fireplace as the 
prisoners were forced into the room by the Snatchers. 

“What is this?” 

The dreadfully familiar, drawling voice of Lucius 
Malfoy fell on Harry’s ears. He was panicking now: He 
could see no way out, and it was easier, as his fear 
mounted, to block out Voldemort’s thoughts, though 
his scar was still burning. 

“They say they’ve got Potter,” said Narcissa’s cold 
voice. “Draco, come here.” 

Harry did not dare look directly at Draco, but saw 
him obliquely: a figure slightly taller than he was, 
rising from an armchair, his face a pale and pointed 
blur beneath white-blond hair. 
