they were all thinking the same thing. There had been 
a horrible incident the day before, when Hannah 
Abbott had been taken out of Herbology to be told her 
mother had been found dead. They had not seen 
Hannah since. 

When they left the Gryffindor table five minutes later 
to head down to the Quidditch pitch, they passed 
Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil. Remembering what 
Hermione had said about the Patil twins’ parents 
wanting them to leave Hogwarts, Harry was 
unsurprised to see that the two best friends were 
whispering together, looking distressed. What did 
surprise him was that when Ron drew level with 
them, Parvati suddenly nudged Lavender, who looked 
around and gave Ron a wide smile. Ron blinked at 
her, then returned the smile uncertainly. His walk 
instantly became something more like a strut. Harry 
resisted the temptation to laugh, remembering that 
Ron had refrained from doing so after Malfoy had 
broken Harry’s nose; Hermione, however, looked cold 
and distant all the way down to the stadium through 
the cool, misty drizzle, and departed to find a place in 
the stands without wishing Ron good luck. 

As Harry had expected, the trials took most of the 
morning. Half of Gryffindor House seemed to have 
turned up, from first years who were nervously 
clutching a selection of the dreadful old school 
brooms, to seventh years who towered over the rest, 
looking coolly intimidating. The latter included a 
large, wiry-haired boy Harry recognized immediately 
from the Hogwarts Express. 



Page | 249 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“We met on the train, in old Sluggy’s compartment,” 
he said confidently, stepping out of the crowd to 
shake Harry’s hand. “Cormac McLaggen, Keeper.” 

“You didn’t try out last year, did you?” asked Harry, 
taking note of the breadth of McLaggen and thinking 
that he would probably block all three goal hoops 
without even moving. 

“I was in the hospital wing when they held the trials,” 
said McLaggen, with something of a swagger. “Ate a 
pound of doxy eggs for a bet.” 

“Right,” said Harry. “Well ... if you wait over there ...” 

He pointed over to the edge of the pitch, close to 
where Hermione was sitting. He thought he saw a 
flicker of annoyance pass over McLaggen’s face and 
wondered whether McLaggen expected preferential 
treatment because they were both “old Sluggy’s” 
favorites. 

Harry decided to start with a basic test, asking all 
applicants for the team to divide into groups of ten 
and fly once around the pitch. This was a good 
decision: The first ten was made up of first years and 
it could not have been plainer that they had hardly 
ever flown before. Only one boy managed to remain 
airborne for more than a few seconds, and he was so 
surprised he promptly crashed into one of the goal 
posts. 

The second group was comprised of ten of the silliest 
girls Harry had ever encountered, who, when he blew 
his whistle, merely fell about giggling and clutching 
one another. Romilda Vane was amongst them. When 
he told them to leave the pitch, they did so quite 
cheerfully and went to sit in the stands to heckle 
everyone else. 

Page | 250 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




The third group had a pileup halfway around the 
pitch. Most of the fourth group had come without 
broomsticks. The fifth group were Hufflepuffs. 

“If there’s anyone else here who’s not from 
Gryffindor,” roared Harry, who was starting to get 
seriously annoyed, “leave now, please!” 

There was a pause, then a couple of little Ravenclaws 
went sprinting off the pitch, snorting with laughter. 

After two hours, many complaints, and several 
tantrums, one involving a crashed Comet Two Sixty 
and several broken teeth, Harry had found himself 
three Chasers: Katie Bell, returned to the team after 
an excellent trial; a new find called Demelza Robins, 
who was particularly good at dodging Bludgers; and 
Ginny Weasley, who had outflown all the competition 
and scored seventeen goals to boot. Pleased though 
he was with his choices, Harry had also shouted 
himself hoarse at the many complainers and was now 
enduring a similar battle with the rejected Beaters. 

“That’s my final decision and if you don’t get out of 
the way for the Keepers I’ll hex you,” he bellowed. 

Neither of his chosen Beaters had the old brilliance of 
Fred and George, but he was still reasonably pleased 
with them: Jimmy Peakes, a short but broad-chested 
third-year boy who had managed to raise a lump the 
size of an egg on the back of Harry’s head with a 
ferociously hit Bludger, and Ritchie Coote, who looked 
weedy but aimed well. They now joined Katie, 

Demelza, and Ginny in the stands to watch the 
selection of their last team member. 

Harry had deliberately left the trial of the Keepers 
until last, hoping for an emptier stadium and less 
pressure on all concerned. Unfortunately, however, all 

Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




the rejected players and a number of people who had 
come down to watch after a lengthy breakfast had 
joined the crowd by now, so that it was larger than 
ever. As each Keeper flew up to the goal hoops, the 
crowd roared and jeered in equal measure. Harry 
glanced over at Ron, who had always had a problem 
with nerves; Harry had hoped that winning their final 
match last term might have cured it, but apparently 
not: Ron was a delicate shade of green. 

None of the first five applicants saved more than two 
goals apiece. To Harry’s great disappointment, 

Cormac McLaggen saved four penalties out of five. On 
the last one, however, he shot off in completely the 
wrong direction; the crowd laughed and booed and 
McLaggen returned to the ground grinding his teeth. 

Ron looked ready to pass out as he mounted his 
Cleansweep Eleven. “Good luck!” cried a voice from 
the stands. Harry looked around, expecting to see 
Hermione, but it was Lavender Brown. He would have 
quite liked to have hidden his face in his hands, as 
she did a moment later, but thought that as the 
Captain he ought to show slightly more grit, and so 
turned to watch Ron do his trial. 

Yet he need not have worried: Ron saved one, two, 
three, four, five penalties in a row. Delighted, and 
resisting joining in the cheers of the crowd with 
difficulty, Harry turned to McLaggen to tell him that, 
most unfortunately, Ron had beaten him, only to find 
McLaggen’s red face inches from his own. He stepped 
back hastily. 

“His sister didn’t really try,” said McLaggen 
menacingly. There was a vein pulsing in his temple 
like the one Harry had often admired in Uncle 
Vernon’s. “She gave him an easy save.” 



Page | 252 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Rubbish,” said Harry coldly. “That was the one he 
nearly missed.” 

McLaggen took a step nearer Harry, who stood his 
ground this time. 

“Give me another go.” 

“No,” said Harry. “You’ve had your go. You saved four. 
Ron saved five. Ron’s Keeper, he won it fair and 
square. Get out of my way.” 

He thought for a moment that McLaggen might punch 
him, but he contented himself with an ugly grimace 
and stormed away, growling what sounded like 
threats to thin air. 

Harry turned around to find his new team beaming at 
him. 

“Well done,” he croaked. “You flew really well — ” 

“You did brilliantly, Ron!” 

This time it really was Hermione running toward 
them from the stands; Harry saw Lavender walking 
off the pitch, arm in arm with Parvati, a rather 
grumpy expression on her face. Ron looked extremely 
pleased with himself and even taller than usual as he 
grinned at the team and at Hermione. 

After fixing the time of their first full practice for the 
following Thursday, Harry, Ron, and Hermione bade 
good-bye to the rest of the team and headed off 
toward Hagrid’s. A watery sun was trying to break 
through the clouds now and it had stopped drizzling 
at last. Harry felt extremely hungry; he hoped there 
would be something to eat at Hagrid’s. 



Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I thought I was going to miss that fourth penalty,” 
Ron was saying happily. “Tricky shot from Demelza, 
did you see, had a bit of spin on it — ” 

“Yes, yes, you were magnificent,” said Hermione, 
looking amused. 

“I was better than that McLaggen anyway,” said Ron 
in a highly satisfied voice. “Did you see him 
lumbering off in the wrong direction on his fifth? 
Looked like he’d been Confunded. ...” 

To Harry’s surprise, Hermione turned a very deep 
shade of pink at these words. Ron noticed nothing; he 
was too busy describing each of his other penalties in 
loving detail. 

The great gray hippogriff, Buckbeak, was tethered in 
front of Hagrid’s cabin. He clicked his razor-sharp 
beak at their approach and turned his huge head 
toward them. 

“Oh dear,” said Hermione nervously. “He’s still a bit 
scary, isn’t he?” 

“Come off it, you’ve ridden him, haven’t you?” said 
Ron. 

Harry stepped forward and bowed low to the 
hippogriff without breaking eye contact or blinking. 
After a few seconds, Buckbeak sank into a bow too. 

“How are you?” Harry asked him in a low voice, 
moving forward to stroke the feathery head. “Missing 
him? But you’re okay here with Hagrid, aren’t you?” 

“Oi!” said a loud voice. 



Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid had come striding around the corner of his 
cabin wearing a large flowery apron and carrying a 
sack of potatoes. His enormous boarhound, Fang, 
was at his heels; Fang gave a booming bark and 
bounded forward. 

“Git away from him! Hell have yer fingers — oh. It’s 
yeh lot.” 

Fang was jumping up at Hermione and Ron, 
attempting to lick their ears. Hagrid stood and looked 
at them all for a split second, then turned and strode 
into his cabin, slamming the door behind him. 

“Oh dear!” said Hermione, looking stricken. 

“Don’t worry about it,” said Harry grimly. He walked 
over to the door and knocked loudly. 

“Hagrid! Open up, we want to talk to you!” 

There was no sound from within. 

“If you don’t open the door, we’ll blast it open!” Harry 
said, pulling out his wand. 

“Harry!” said Hermione, sounding shocked. “You can’t 
possibly — ” 

“Yeah, I can!” said Harry. “Stand back — ” 

But before he could say anything else, the door flew 
open again as Harry had known it would, and there 
stood Hagrid, glowering down at him and looking, 
despite the flowery apron, positively alarming. 

“I’m a teacher!” he roared at Harry. “A teacher, Potter! 
How dare yeh threaten ter break down my door!” 



Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm sorry, sir,” said Harry, emphasizing the last word 
as he stowed his wand inside his robes. 

Hagrid looked stunned. “Since when have yeh called 
me ‘sir’?” 



“Since when have you called me ‘Potter’?” 

“Oh, very clever,” growled Hagrid. “Very amusin’. 
That’s me outsmarted, innit? All righ’, come in then, 
yeh ungrateful little ...” 

Mumbling darkly, he stood back to let them pass. 
Hermione scurried in after Harry, looking rather 
frightened. 

“Well?” said Hagrid grumpily, as Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione sat down around his enormous wooden 
table, Fang laying his head immediately upon Harry’s 
knee and drooling all over his robes. “What’s this? 
Feelin’ sorry for me? Reckon I’m lonely or summat?” 

“No,” said Harry at once. “We wanted to see you.” 

“We’ve missed you!” said Hermione tremulously. 

“Missed me, have yeh?” snorted Hagrid. “Yeah. Righ’.” 

He stomped around, brewing up tea in his enormous 
copper kettle, muttering all the while. Finally he 
slammed down three bucket-sized mugs of 
mahogany-brown tea in front of them and a plate of 
his rock cakes. Harry was hungry enough even for 
Hagrid’s cooking, and took one at once. 

“Hagrid,” said Hermione timidly, when he joined them 
at the table and started peeling his potatoes with a 
brutality that suggested that each tuber had done 



Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




him a great personal wrong, “we really wanted to 
carry on with Care of Magical Creatures, you know.” 



Hagrid gave another great snort. Harry rather thought 
some bogeys landed on the potatoes, and was 
inwardly thankful that they were not staying for 
dinner. 

“We did!” said Hermione. “But none of us could fit it 
into our schedules!” 

“Yeah. Righ’,” said Hagrid again. 

There was a funny squelching sound and they all 
looked around: Hermione let out a tiny shriek, and 
Ron leapt out of his seat and hurried around the table 
away from the large barrel standing in the corner that 
they had only just noticed. It was full of what looked 
like foot-long maggots, slimy, white, and writhing. 

“What are they, Hagrid?” asked Harry, trying to sound 
interested rather than revolted, but putting down his 
rock cake all the same. 

“Jus’ giant grubs,” said Hagrid. 

“And they grow into ... ?” said Ron, looking 
apprehensive. 

“They won’ grow inter nuthin’,” said Hagrid. “I got ’em 
ter feed ter Aragog.” 

And without warning, he burst into tears. 

“Hagrid!” cried Hermione, leaping up, hurrying 
around the table the long way to avoid the barrel of 
maggots, and putting an arm around his shaking 
shoulders. “What is it?” 

Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s ... him ...” gulped Hagrid, his beetle-black eyes 
streaming as he mopped his face with his apron. “It’s 
... Aragog. ... I think he’s dyin’. ... He got ill over the 
summer an’ he’s not gettin’ better. ... I don’ know 
what I’ll do if he ... if he ... We’ve bin tergether so 
long. ...” 

Hermione patted Hagrid’s shoulder, looking at a 
complete loss for anything to say. Harry knew how 
she felt. He had known Hagrid to present a vicious 
baby dragon with a teddy bear, seen him croon over 
giant scorpions with suckers and stingers, attempt to 
reason with his brutal giant of a half-brother, but this 
was perhaps the most incomprehensible of all his 
monster fancies: the gigantic talking spider, Aragog, 
who dwelled deep in the Forbidden Forest and which 
he and Ron had only narrowly escaped four years 
previously. 

“Is there — is there anything we can do?” Hermione 
asked, ignoring Ron’s frantic grimaces and head- 
shakings. 

“I don’ think there is, Hermione,” choked Hagrid, 
attempting to stem the flood of his tears. “See, the 
rest o’ the tribe ... Aragog’s family ... they’re gettin’ a 
bit funny now he’s ill ... bit restive ...” 

“Yeah, I think we saw a bit of that side of them,” said 
Ron in an undertone. 

"... I don’ reckon it’d be safe fer anyone but me ter go 
near the colony at the mo’,” Hagrid finished, blowing 
his nose hard on his apron and looking up. “But 
thanks fer offerin’, Hermione. ... It means a lot. ...” 

After that, the atmosphere lightened considerably, for 
although neither Harry nor Ron had shown any 
inclination to go and feed giant grubs to a murderous, 

Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




gargantuan spider, Hagrid seemed to take it for 
granted that they would have liked to have done and 
became his usual self once more. 

“Ar, I always knew yeh’d find it hard ter squeeze me 
inter yer timetables,” he said gruffly, pouring them 
more tea. “Even if yeh applied fer Time-Turners — ” 

“We couldn’t have done,” said Hermione. “We 
smashed the entire stock of Ministry Time-Turners 
when we were there last summer. It was in the Daily 
Prophet.” 

“Ar, well then,” said Hagrid. “There’s no way yeh 
could’ve done it. ... I’m sorry I’ve bin — yeh know — 
I’ve jus’ bin worried abou’ Aragog ... an’ I did wonder 
whether, if Professor Grubbly-Plank had bin teachin’ 
yeh 

At which all three of them stated categorically and 
untruthfully that Professor Grubbly-Plank, who had 
substituted for Hagrid a few times, was a dreadful 
teacher, with the result that by the time Hagrid waved 
them off the premises at dusk, he looked quite 
cheerful. 

“I’m starving,” said Harry, once the door had closed 
behind them and they were hurrying through the 
dark and deserted grounds; he had abandoned the 
rock cake after an ominous cracking noise from one 
of his back teeth. “And I’ve got that detention with 
Snape tonight, I haven’t got much time for dinner. ...” 

As they came into the castle they spotted Cormac 
McLaggen entering the Great Hall. It took him two 
attempts to get through the doors; he ricocheted off 
the frame on the first attempt. Ron merely guffawed 
gloatingly and strode off into the Hall after him, but 
Harry caught Hermione ’s arm and held her back. 

Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” said Hermione defensively. 



“If you ask me,” said Harry quietly, “McLaggen looks 
like he was Confunded this morning. And he was 
standing right in front of where you were sitting.” 

Hermione blushed. 

“Oh, all right then, I did it,” she whispered. “But you 
should have heard the way he was talking about Ron 
and Ginny! Anyway, he’s got a nasty temper, you saw 
how he reacted when he didn’t get in — you wouldn’t 
have wanted someone like that on the team.” 

“No,” said Harry. “No, I suppose that’s true. But 
wasn’t that dishonest, Hermione? I mean, you’re a 
prefect, aren’t you?” 

“Oh, be quiet,” she snapped, as he smirked. 

“What are you two doing?” demanded Ron, 
reappearing in the doorway to the Great Hall and 
looking suspicious. 

“Nothing,” said Harry and Hermione together, and 
they hurried after Ron. The smell of roast beef made 
Harry’s stomach ache with hunger, but they had 
barely taken three steps toward the Gryffindor table 
when Professor Slughorn appeared in front of them, 
blocking their path. 

“Harry, Harry, just the man I was hoping to see!” he 
boomed genially, twiddling the ends of his walrus 
mustache and puffing out his enormous belly. “I was 
hoping to catch you before dinner! What do you say to 
a spot of supper tonight in my rooms instead? We’re 
having a little party, just a few rising stars, I’ve got 
McLaggen coming and Zabini, the charming Melinda 
Bobbin — I don’t know whether you know her? Her 
Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




family owns a large chain of apothecaries — and, of 
course, I hope very much that Miss Granger will favor 
me by coming too.” 

Slughorn made Hermione a little bow as he finished 
speaking. It was as though Ron was not present; 
Slughorn did not so much as look at him. 

“I can’t come, Professor,” said Harry at once. “I’ve got 
a detention with Professor Snape.” 

“Oh dear!” said Slughorn, his face falling comically. 
“Dear, dear, I was counting on you, Harry! Well, now, 
I’ll just have to have a word with Severus and explain 
the situation. I’m sure I’ll be able to persuade him to 
postpone your detention. Yes, I’ll see you both later!” 

He bustled away out of the Hall. 

“He’s got no chance of persuading Snape,” said Harry, 
the moment Slughorn was out of earshot. “This 
detention’s already been postponed once; Snape did it 
for Dumbledore, but he won’t do it for anyone else.” 

“Oh, I wish you could come, I don’t want to go on my 
own!” said Hermione anxiously; Harry knew that she 
was thinking about McLaggen. 

“I doubt you’ll be alone, Ginny’ll probably be invited,” 
snapped Ron, who did not seem to have taken kindly 
to being ignored by Slughorn. 

After dinner they made their way back to Gryffindor 
Tower. The common room was very crowded, as most 
people had finished dinner by now, but they managed 
to find a free table and sat down; Ron, who had been 
in a bad mood ever since the encounter with 
Slughorn, folded his arms and frowned at the ceiling. 
Hermione reached out for a copy of the Evening 
Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Prophet, which somebody had left abandoned on a 
chair. 

“Anything new?” said Harry. 

“Not really ...” Hermione had opened the newspaper 
and was scanning the inside pages. “Oh, look, your 
dad’s in here, Ron — he’s all right!” she added 
quickly, for Ron had looked around in alarm. “It just 
says he’s been to visit the Malfoys’ house. ‘This 
second search of the Death Eater’s residence does not 
seem to have yielded any results. Arthur Weasley of 
the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of 
Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Objects 
said that his team had been acting upon a confidential 
tip-off’” 

“Yeah, mine!” said Harry. “I told him at King’s Cross 
about Malfoy and that thing he was trying to get 
Borgin to fix! Well, if it’s not at their house, he must 
have brought whatever it is to Hogwarts with him — ” 

“But how can he have done, Harry?” said Hermione, 
putting down the newspaper with a surprised look. 
“We were all searched when we arrived, weren’t we?” 

“Were you?” said Harry, taken aback. “I wasn’t!” 

“Oh no, of course you weren’t, I forgot you were late. 

... Well, Filch ran over all of us with Secrecy Sensors 
when we got into the entrance hall. Any Dark object 
would have been found, I know for a fact Crabbe had 
a shrunken head confiscated. So you see, Malfoy can’t 
have brought in anything dangerous!” 

Momentarily stymied, Harry watched Ginny Weasley 
playing with Arnold the Pygmy Puff for a while before 
seeing a way around this objection. 



Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Someone’s sent it to him by owl, then,” he said. “His 
mother or someone.” 

“All the owls are being checked too,” said Hermione. 
“Filch told us so when he was jabbing those Secrecy 
Sensors everywhere he could reach.” 

Really stumped this time, Harry found nothing else to 
say. There did not seem to be any way Malfoy could 
have brought a dangerous or Dark object into the 
school. He looked hopefully at Ron, who was sitting 
with his arms folded, staring over at Lavender Brown. 

“Can you think of any way Malfoy — ?” 

“Oh, drop it, Harry,” said Ron. 

“Listen, it’s not my fault Slughorn invited Hermione 
and me to his stupid party, neither of us wanted to 
go, you know!” said Harry, firing up. 

“Well, as I’m not invited to any parties,” said Ron, 
getting to his feet again, “I think I’ll go to bed.” 

He stomped off toward the door to the boys’ 
dormitories, leaving Harry and Hermione staring after 
him. 

“Harry?” said the new Chaser, Demelza Robins, 
appearing suddenly at his shoulder. “I’ve got a 
message for you.” 

“From Professor Slughorn?” asked Harry, sitting up 
hopefully. 

“No ... from Professor Snape,” said Demelza. Harry’s 
heart sank. “He says you’re to come to his office at 
half past eight tonight to do your detention — er — no 
matter how many party invitations you’ve received. 

Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




And he wanted you to know you’ll be sorting out 
rotten flobberworms from good ones, to use in Potions 
and — and he says there’s no need to bring protective 
gloves.” 

“Right,” said Harry grimly. “Thanks a lot, Demelza.” 



Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






SILVER AND OPALS 

Where was Dumbledore, and what was he doing? 
Harry caught sight of the headmaster only twice over 
the next few weeks. He rarely appeared at meals 
anymore, and Harry was sure Hermione was right in 
thinking that he was leaving the school for days at a 
time. Had Dumbledore forgotten the lessons he was 
supposed to be giving Harry? Dumbledore had said 
that the lessons were leading to something to do with 
the prophecy; Harry had felt bolstered, comforted, 
and now he felt slightly abandoned. 

Halfway through October came their first trip of the 
term to Hogsmeade. Harry had wondered whether 
these trips would still be allowed, given the 
increasingly tight security measures around the 
school, but was pleased to know that they were going 
ahead; it was always good to get out of the castle 
grounds for a few hours. 

Harry woke early on the morning of the trip, which 
was proving stormy, and whiled away the time until 



Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



breakfast by reading his copy of Advanced Potion- 
Making. He did not usually lie in bed reading his 
textbooks; that sort of behavior, as Ron rightly said, 
was indecent in anybody except Hermione, who was 
simply weird that way. Harry felt, however, that the 
Half-Blood Prince’s copy of Advanced Potion-Making 
hardly qualified as a textbook. The more Harry pored 
over the book, the more he realized how much was in 
there, not only the handy hints and shortcuts on 
potions that were earning him such a glowing 
reputation with Slughorn, but also the imaginative 
little jinxes and hexes scribbled in the margins, which 
Harry was sure, judging by the crossings-out and 
revisions, that the Prince had invented himself. 

Harry had already attempted a few of the Prince’s self- 
invented spells. There had been a hex that caused 
toenails to grow alarmingly fast (he had tried this on 
Crabbe in the corridor, with very entertaining results); 
a jinx that glued the tongue to the roof of the mouth 
(which he had twice used, to general applause, on an 
unsuspecting Argus Filch); and, perhaps most useful 
of all, Muffliato, a spell that filled the ears of anyone 
nearby with an unidentifiable buzzing, so that lengthy 
conversations could be held in class without being 
overheard. The only person who did not find these 
charms amusing was Hermione, who maintained a 
rigidly disapproving expression throughout and 
refused to talk at all if Harry had used the Muffliato 
spell on anyone in the vicinity. 

Sitting up in bed, Harry turned the book sideways so 
as to examine more closely the scribbled instructions 
for a spell that seemed to have caused the Prince 
some trouble. There were many crossings-out and 
alterations, but finally, crammed into a corner of the 
page, the scribble: 

Levicorpus (nvbl) 

Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




While the wind and sleet pounded relentlessly on the 
windows, and Neville snored loudly, Harry stared at 
the letters in brackets. Nvbl ... that had to mean 
“nonverbal.” Harry rather doubted he would be able 
to bring off this particular spell; he was still having 
difficulty with nonverbal spells, something Snape had 
been quick to comment on in every D.A.D.A. class. On 
the other hand, the Prince had proved a much more 
effective teacher than Snape so far. 

Pointing his wand at nothing in particular, he gave it 
an upward flick and said Levicorpusl inside his head. 

“ Aaaaaaaargh ! ” 

There was a flash of light and the room was full of 
voices: Everyone had woken up as Ron had let out a 
yell. Harry sent Advanced Potion-Making flying in 
panic; Ron was dangling upside down in midair as 
though an invisible hook had hoisted him up by the 
ankle. 

“Sorry!” yelled Harry, as Dean and Seamus roared 
with laughter, and Neville picked himself up from the 
floor, having fallen out of bed. “Hang on — I’ll let you 
down — ” 

He groped for the potion book and riffled through it in 
a panic, trying to find the right page; at last he 
located it and deciphered one cramped word 
underneath the spell: Praying that this was the 
counter-jinx, Harry thought Liberacorpus\ with all his 
might. 

There was another flash of light, and Ron fell in a 
heap onto his mattress. 

“Sorry,” repeated Harry weakly, while Dean and 
Seamus continued to roar with laughter. 

Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Tomorrow,” said Ron in a muffled voice, “I’d rather 
you set the alarm clock.” 

By the time they had got dressed, padding themselves 
out with several of Mrs. Weasley’s hand-knitted 
sweaters and carrying cloaks, scarves, and gloves, 
Ron’s shock had subsided and he had decided that 
Harry’s new spell was highly amusing; so amusing, in 
fact, that he lost no time in regaling Hermione with 
the story as they sat down for breakfast. 

"... and then there was another flash of light and I 
landed on the bed again!” Ron grinned, helping 
himself to sausages. 

Hermione had not cracked a smile during this 
anecdote, and now turned an expression of wintry 
disapproval upon Harry. 

“Was this spell, by any chance, another one from that 
potion book of yours?” she asked. 

Harry frowned at her. 

“Always jump to the worst conclusion, don’t you?” 
“Was it?” 

“Well ... yeah, it was, but so what?” 

“So you just decided to try out an unknown, 
handwritten incantation and see what would 
happen?” 

“Why does it matter if it’s handwritten?” said Harry, 
preferring not to answer the rest of the question. 

“Because it’s probably not Ministry of Magic- 
approved,” said Hermione. “And also,” she added, as 

Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry and Ron rolled their eyes, “because I’m starting 
to think this Prince character was a bit dodgy.” 



Both Harry and Ron shouted her down at once. 

“It was a laugh!” said Ron, upending a ketchup bottle 
over his sausages. “Just a laugh, Hermione, that’s 
all!” 

“Dangling people upside down by the ankle?” said 
Hermione. “Who puts their time and energy into 
making up spells like that?” 

“Fred and George,” said Ron, shrugging, “it’s their 
kind of thing. And, er — ” 

“My dad,” said Harry. He had only just remembered. 

“What?” said Ron and Hermione together. 

“My dad used this spell,” said Harry. “I — Lupin told 
me.” 

This last part was not true; in fact, Harry had seen 
his father use the spell on Snape, but he had never 
told Ron and Hermione about that particular 
excursion into the Pensieve. Now, however, a 
wonderful possibility occurred to him. Could the Half- 
Blood Prince possibly be — ? 

“Maybe your dad did use it, Harry,” said Hermione, 
“but he’s not the only one. We’ve seen a whole bunch 
of people use it, in case you’ve forgotten. Dangling 
people in the air. Making them float along, asleep, 
helpless.” 

Harry stared at her. With a sinking feeling, he too 
remembered the behavior of the Death Eaters at the 
Quidditch World Cup. Ron came to his aid. 

Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“That was different,” he said robustly. “They were 
abusing it. Harry and his dad were just having a 
laugh. You don’t like the Prince, Hermione,” he added, 
pointing a sausage at her sternly, “because he’s better 
than you at Potions — ” 

“It’s got nothing to do with that!” said Hermione, her 
cheeks reddening. “I just think it’s very irresponsible 
to start performing spells when you don’t even know 
what they’re for, and stop talking about ‘the Prince’ as 
if it’s his title, I bet it’s just a stupid nickname, and it 
doesn’t seem as though he was a very nice person to 
me!” 

“I don’t see where you get that from,” said Harry 
heatedly. “If he’d been a budding Death Eater he 
wouldn’t have been boasting about being ‘half-blood,’ 
would he?” 

Even as he said it, Harry remembered that his father 
had been pure-blood, but he pushed the thought out 
of his mind; he would worry about that later. ... 

“The Death Eaters can’t all be pure-blood, there aren’t 
enough pure-blood wizards left,” said Hermione 
stubbornly. “I expect most of them are half-bloods 
pretending to be pure. It’s only Muggle-borns they 
hate, they’d be quite happy to let you and Ron join 
up.” 

“There is no way they’d let me be a Death Eater!” said 
Ron indignantly, a bit of sausage flying off the fork he 
was now brandishing at Hermione and hitting Ernie 
Macmillan on the head. “My whole family are blood 
traitors! That’s as bad as Muggle-borns to Death 
Eaters!” 



Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“And they’d love to have me,” said Harry sarcastically. 
“We’d be best pals if they didn’t keep trying to do me 



in. 






This made Ron laugh; even Hermione gave a grudging 
smile, and a distraction arrived in the shape of Ginny. 

“Hey, Harry, I’m supposed to give you this.” 

It was a scroll of parchment with Harry’s name 
written upon it in familiar thin, slanting writing. 

“Thanks, Ginny ... It’s Dumbledore’s next lesson!” 
Harry told Ron and Hermione, pulling open the 
parchment and quickly reading its contents. “Monday 
evening!” He felt suddenly light and happy. “Want to 
join us in Hogsmeade, Ginny?” he asked. 

“I’m going with Dean — might see you there,” she 
replied, waving at them as she left. 

Filch was standing at the oak front doors as usual, 
checking off the names of people who had permission 
to go into Hogsmeade. The process took even longer 
than normal as Filch was triple-checking everybody 
with his Secrecy Sensor. 

“What does it matter if we’re smuggling Dark stuff 
OUT?” demanded Ron, eyeing the long thin Secrecy 
Sensor with apprehension. “Surely you ought to be 
checking what we bring back IN?” 

His cheek earned him a few extra jabs with the 
Sensor, and he was still wincing as they stepped out 
into the wind and sleet. 

The walk into Hogsmeade was not enjoyable. Harry 
wrapped his scarf over his lower face; the exposed 
part soon felt both raw and numb. The road to the 
