
He bustled back into the castle, and Harry sped off to 
Hagrid ’s, delighted with himself. 

“Yeh came,” croaked Hagrid, when he opened the door 
and saw Harry emerging from the Invisibility Cloak in 
front of him. 

“Yeah — Ron and Hermione couldn’t, though,” said 
Harry. “They’re really sorry.” 

“Don’ — don’ matter ... He’d’ve bin touched yeh’re 
here, though, Harry. ...” 

Hagrid gave a great sob. He had made himself a black 
armband out of what looked like a rag dipped in boot 
polish, and his eyes were puffy, red, and swollen. 
Harry patted him consolingly on the elbow, which was 
the highest point of Hagrid he could easily reach. 

“Where are we burying him?” he asked. “The forest?” 

Page | 541 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Blimey, no,” said Hagrid, wiping his streaming eyes 
on the bottom of his shirt. “The other spiders won’ let 
me anywhere near their webs now Aragog’s gone. 
Turns out it was on’y on his orders they didn’ eat me! 
Can yeh believe that, Harry?” 

The honest answer was “yes”; Harry recalled with 
painful ease the scene when he and Ron had come 
face-to-face with the acromantulas: They had been 
quite clear that Aragog was the only thing that 
stopped them from eating Hagrid. 

“Never bin an area o’ the forest I couldn’ go before!” 
said Hagrid, shaking his head. “It wasn’ easy, gettin’ 
Aragog’s body out o’ there, I can tell yeh — they 
usually eat their dead, see. ... But I wanted ter give 
’im a nice burial ... a proper send-off ...” 

He broke into sobs again and Harry resumed the 
patting of his elbow, saying as he did so (for the 
potion seemed to indicate that it was the right thing 
to do), “Professor Slughorn met me coming down 
here, Hagrid.” 

“Not in trouble, are yeh?” said Hagrid, looking up, 
alarmed. “Yeh shouldn’ be outta the castle in the 
evenin’, I know it, it’s my fault — ” 

“No, no, when he heard what I was doing he said he’d 
like to come and pay his last respects to Aragog too,” 
said Harry. “He’s gone to change into something more 
suitable, I think ... and he said he’d bring some 
bottles so we can drink to Aragog’s memory. . . . 

“Did he?” said Hagrid, looking both astonished and 
touched. “Tha’s — tha’s righ’ nice of him, that is, an’ 
not turnin’ yeh in either. I’ve never really had a lot ter 
do with Horace Slughorn before. ... Cornin’ ter see old 



Page | 542 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Aragog off, though, eh? Well ... he ’d’ve liked that, 
Aragog would. ...” 

Harry thought privately that what Aragog would have 
liked most about Slughorn was the ample amount of 
edible flesh he provided, but he merely moved to the 
rear window of Hagrid ’s hut, where he saw the rather 
horrible sight of the enormous dead spider lying on its 
back outside, its legs curled and tangled. 

“Are we going to bury him here, Hagrid, in your 
garden?” 

“Jus’ beyond the pumpkin patch, I thought,” said 
Hagrid in a choked voice. “I’ve already dug the — yeh 
know — grave. Jus’ thought we’d say a few nice 
things over him — happy memories, yeh know — ” 

His voice quivered and broke. There was a knock on 
the door, and he turned to answer it, blowing his nose 
on his great spotted handkerchief as he did so. 
Slughorn hurried over the threshold, several bottles 
in his arms, and wearing a somber black cravat. 

“Hagrid,” he said, in a deep, grave voice. “So very 
sorry to hear of your loss.” 

“Tha’s very nice of yeh,” said Hagrid. “Thanks a lot. 

An’ thanks fer not givin’ Harry detention neither. ...” 

“Wouldn’t have dreamed of it,” said Slughorn. “Sad 
night, sad night ... Where is the poor creature?” 

“Out here,” said Hagrid in a shaking voice. “Shall we 
— shall we do it, then?” 

The three of them stepped out into the back garden. 
The moon was glistening palely through the trees 
now, and its rays mingled with the light spilling from 

Page | 543 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid’s window to illuminate Aragog’s body lying on 
the edge of a massive pit beside a ten-foot-high 
mound of freshly dug earth. 

“Magnificent,” said Slughorn, approaching the 
spider’s head, where eight milky eyes stared blankly 
at the sky and two huge, curved pincers shone, 
motionless, in the moonlight. Harry thought he heard 
the tinkle of bottles as Slughorn bent over the 
pincers, apparently examining the enormous hairy 
head. 

“It’s not ev’ryone appreciates how beau’iful they are,” 
said Hagrid to Slughorn ’s back, tears leaking from the 
corners of his crinkled eyes. “I didn’ know yeh were 
int’rested in creatures like Aragog, Horace.” 

“Interested? My dear Hagrid, I revere them,” said 
Slughorn, stepping back from the body. Harry saw 
the glint of a bottle disappear beneath his cloak, 
though Hagrid, mopping his eyes once more, noticed 
nothing. “Now ... shall we proceed to the burial?” 

Hagrid nodded and moved forward. He heaved the 
gigantic spider into his arms and, with an enormous 
grunt, rolled it into the dark pit. It hit the bottom with 
a rather horrible, crunchy thud. Hagrid started to cry 
again. 

“Of course, it’s difficult for you, who knew him best,” 
said Slughorn, who like Harry could reach no higher 
than Hagrid’s elbow, but patted it all the same. “Why 
don’t I say a few words?” 

He must have got a lot of good quality venom from 
Aragog, Harry thought, for Slughorn wore a satisfied 
smirk as he stepped up to the rim of the pit and said, 
in a slow, impressive voice, “Farewell, Aragog, king of 
arachnids, whose long and faithful friendship those 
Page | 544 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




who knew you won’t forget! Though your body will 
decay, your spirit lingers on in the quiet, web-spun 
places of your forest home. May your many-eyed 
descendants ever flourish and your human friends 
find solace for the loss they have sustained.” 

“Tha’ was ... tha’ was ... beau’iful!” howled Hagrid, 
and he collapsed onto the compost heap, crying 
harder than ever. 

“There, there,” said Slughorn, waving his wand so 
that the huge pile of earth rose up and then fell, with 
a muffled sort of crash, onto the dead spider, forming 
a smooth mound. “Let’s get inside and have a drink. 
Get on his other side, Harry. ... That’s it. ... Up you 
come, Hagrid ... Well done ...” 

They deposited Hagrid in a chair at the table. Fang, 
who had been skulking in his basket during the 
burial, now came padding softly across to them and 
put his heavy head into Harry’s lap as usual. 

Slughorn uncorked one of the bottles of wine he had 
brought. 

“I have had it all tested for poison,” he assured Harry, 
pouring most of the first bottle into one of Hagrid ’s 
bucket- sized mugs and handing it to Hagrid. “Had a 
house-elf taste every bottle after what happened to 
your poor friend Rupert.” 

Harry saw, in his mind’s eye, the expression on 
Hermione’s face if she ever heard about this abuse of 
house-elves, and decided never to mention it to her. 

“One for Harry ...” said Slughorn, dividing a second 
bottle between two mugs, "... and one for me. Well” — 
he raised his mug high — “to Aragog.” 

“Aragog,” said Harry and Hagrid together. 

Page | 545 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Both Slughorn and Hagrid drank deeply. Harry, 
however, with the way ahead illuminated for him by 
Felix Felicis, knew that he must not drink, so he 
merely pretended to take a gulp and then set the mug 
back on the table before him. 

“I had him from an egg, yeh know,” said Hagrid 
morosely. “Tiny little thing he was when he hatched. 
Bout the size of a Pekingese.” 

“Sweet,” said Slughorn. 

“Used ter keep him in a cupboard up at the school 
until ... well ...” 

Hagrid ’s face darkened and Harry knew why: Tom 
Riddle had contrived to have Hagrid thrown out of 
school, blamed for opening the Chamber of Secrets. 
Slughorn, however, did not seem to be listening; he 
was looking up at the ceiling, from which a number of 
brass pots hung, and also a long, silky skein of bright 
white hair. 

“That’s never unicorn hair, Hagrid?” 

“Oh, yeah,” said Hagrid indifferently. “Gets pulled out 
of their tails, they catch it on branches an’ stuff in the 
forest, yeh know ...” 

“But my dear chap, do you know how much that’s 
worth?” 

“I use it fer bindin’ on bandages an’ stuff if a creature 
gets injured,” said Hagrid, shrugging. “It’s dead useful 
... very strong, see.” 

Slughorn took another deep draught from his mug, 
his eyes moving carefully around the cabin now, 
looking, Harry knew, for more treasures that he might 

Page | 546 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




be able to convert into a plentiful supply of oak- 
matured mead, crystalized pineapple, and velvet 
smoking jackets. He refilled Hagrid’s mug and his 
own, and questioned him about the creatures that 
lived in the forest these days and how Hagrid was 
able to look after them all. Hagrid, becoming 
expansive under the influence of the drink and 
Slughorn ’s flattering interest, stopped mopping his 
eyes and entered happily into a long explanation of 
bowtruckle husbandry. 

The Felix Felicis gave Harry a little nudge at this 
point, and he noticed that the supply of drink that 
Slughorn had brought was running out fast. Harry 
had not yet managed to bring off the Refilling Charm 
without saying the incantation aloud, but the idea 
that he might not be able to do it tonight was 
laughable: Indeed, Harry grinned to himself as, 
unnoticed by either Hagrid or Slughorn (now 
swapping tales of the illegal trade in dragon eggs) he 
pointed his wand under the table at the emptying 
bottles and they immediately began to refill. 

After an hour or so, Hagrid and Slughorn began 
making extravagant toasts: to Hogwarts, to 
Dumbledore, to elf-made wine, and to — 

“Harry Potter!” bellowed Hagrid, slopping some of his 
fourteenth bucket of wine down his chin as he 
drained it. 

“Yes, indeed,” cried Slughorn a little thickly, “Parry 
Otter, the Chosen Boy Who — well — something of 
that sort,” he mumbled, and drained his mug too. 

Not long after this, Hagrid became tearful again and 
pressed the whole unicorn tail upon Slughorn, who 
pocketed it with cries of, “To friendship! To generosity! 
To ten Galleons a hair!” 

Page | 547 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




And for a while after that, Hagrid and Slughorn were 
sitting side by side, arms around each other, singing 
a slow sad song about a dying wizard called Odo. 

“Aaargh, the good die young,” muttered Hagrid, 
slumping low onto the table, a little cross-eyed, while 
Slughorn continued to warble the refrain. “Me dad 
was no age ter go ... nor were yer mum an’ dad, 
Harry...” 

Great fat tears oozed out of the corners of Hagrid ’s 
crinkled eyes again; he grasped Harry’s arm and 
shook it. 

“Bes’ wiz and witchard o’ their age I never knew ... 
terrible thing ... terrible thing ...” 

And Odo the hero, they bore him back home 
To the place that he’d known as a lad, 

sang Slughorn plaintively. 

They laid him to rest with his hat inside out 
And his wand snapped in two, which was sad. 

"... terrible,” Hagrid grunted, and his great shaggy 
head rolled sideways onto his arms and he fell asleep, 
snoring deeply. 

“Sorry,” said Slughorn with a hiccup. “Can’t carry a 
tune to save my life.” 

“Hagrid wasn’t talking about your singing,” said Harry 
quietly. “He was talking about my mum and dad 
dying.” 

“Oh,” said Slughorn, repressing a large belch. “Oh 
dear. Yes, that was — was terrible indeed. Terrible ... 
terrible ...” 

Page | 548 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




He looked quite at a loss for what to say, and resorted 
to refilling their mugs. 



“I don’t — don’t suppose you remember it, Harry?” he 
asked awkwardly. 

“No — well, I was only one when they died,” said 
Harry, his eyes on the flame of the candle flickering in 
Hagrid’s heavy snores. “But I’ve found out pretty 
much what happened since. My dad died first. Did 
you know that?” 

“I — I didn’t,” said Slughorn in a hushed voice. 

“Yeah . . . Voldemort murdered him and then stepped 
over his body toward my mum,” said Harry. 

Slughorn gave a great shudder, but he did not seem 
able to tear his horrified gaze away from Harry’s face. 

“He told her to get out of the way,” said Harry 
remorselessly. “He told me she needn’t have died. He 
only wanted me. She could have run.” 

“Oh dear,” breathed Slughorn. “She could have ... she 
needn’t ... That’s awful. ...” 

“It is, isn’t it?” said Harry, in a voice barely more than 
a whisper. “But she didn’t move. Dad was already 
dead, but she didn’t want me to go too. She tried to 
plead with Voldemort ... but he just laughed. ...” 

“That’s enough!” said Slughorn suddenly, raising a 
shaking hand. “Really, my dear boy, enough ... I’m an 
old man ... I don’t need to hear ... I don’t want to hear 



“I forgot,” lied Harry, Felix Felicis leading him on. 

“You liked her, didn’t you?” 

Page | 549 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Liked her?” said Slughorn, his eyes brimming with 
tears once more. “I don’t imagine anyone who met her 
wouldn’t have liked her. ... Very brave ... Very funny 
...It was the most horrible thing. ...” 

“But you won’t help her son,” said Harry. “She gave 
me her life, but you won’t give me a memory.” 

Hagrid’s rumbling snores filled the cabin. Harry 
looked steadily into Slughorn ’s tear-filled eyes. The 
Potions master seemed unable to look away. 

“Don’t say that,” he whispered. “It isn’t a question ... 

If it were to help you, of course ... but no purpose can 
be served ...” 

“It can,” said Harry clearly. “Dumbledore needs 
information. I need information.” 

He knew he was safe: Felix was telling him that 
Slughorn would remember nothing of this in the 
morning. Looking Slughorn straight in the eye, Harry 
leaned forward a little. 

“I am the Chosen One. I have to kill him. I need that 
memory.” 

Slughorn turned paler than ever; his shiny forehead 
gleamed with sweat. 

“You are the Chosen One?” 

“Of course I am,” said Harry calmly. 

“But then ... my dear boy ... you’re asking a great deal 
... you’re asking me, in fact, to aid you in your 
attempt to destroy — ” 



Page | 550 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You don’t want to get rid of the wizard who killed Lily 
Evans?” 

“Harry, Harry, of course I do, but — ” 

“You’re scared he’ll find out you helped me?” 

Slughorn said nothing; he looked terrified. 

“Be brave like my mother, Professor. ...” 

Slughorn raised a pudgy hand and pressed his 
shaking fingers to his mouth; he looked for a moment 
like an enormously overgrown baby. 

“I am not proud ...” he whispered through his fingers. 
“I am ashamed of what — of what that memory 
shows. ... I think I may have done great damage that 
day. ...” 

“You’d cancel out anything you did by giving me the 
memory,” said Harry. “It would be a very brave and 
noble thing to do.” 

Hagrid twitched in his sleep and snored on. Slughorn 
and Harry stared at each other over the guttering 
candle. There was a long, long silence, but Felix 
Felicis told Harry not to break it, to wait. 

Then, very slowly, Slughorn put his hand in his 
pocket and pulled out his wand. He put his other 
hand inside his cloak and took out a small, empty 
bottle. Still looking into Harry’s eyes, Slughorn 
touched the tip of his wand to his temple and 
withdrew it, so that a long, silver thread of memory 
came away too, clinging to the wand tip. Longer and 
longer the memory stretched until it broke and 
swung, silvery bright, from the wand. Slughorn 
lowered it into the bottle where it coiled, then spread, 
Page | 551 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




swirling like gas. He corked the bottle with a 
trembling hand and then passed it across the table to 
Harry. 

“Thank you very much, Professor.” 

“You’re a good boy,” said Professor Slughorn, tears 
trickling down his fat cheeks into his walrus 
mustache. “And you’ve got her eyes. ... Just don’t 
think too badly of me once you’ve seen it. ...” 

And he too put his head on his arms, gave a deep 
sigh, and fell asleep. 



Page | 552 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






HORCRUXES 

Harry could feel the Felix Felicis wearing off as he 
crept back into the castle. The front door had 
remained unlocked for him, but on the third floor he 
met Peeves and only narrowly avoided detection by 
diving sideways through one of his shortcuts. By the 
time he got up to the portrait of the Fat Lady and 
pulled off his Invisibility Cloak, he was not surprised 
to find her in a most unhelpful mood. 

“What sort of time do you call this?” 

“I’m really sorry — I had to go out for something 
important — ” 

“Well, the password changed at midnight, so you’ll 
just have to sleep in the corridor, won’t you?” 

“You’re joking!” said Harry. “Why did it have to 
change at midnight?” 



Page | 553 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“That’s the way it is,” said the Fat Lady. “If you’re 
angry, go and take it up with the headmaster, he’s the 
one who’s tightened security.” 

“Fantastic,” said Harry bitterly, looking around at the 
hard floor. “Really brilliant. Yeah, I would go and take 
it up with Dumbledore if he was here, because he’s 
the one who wanted me to — ” 

“He is here,” said a voice behind Harry. “Professor 
Dumbledore returned to the school an hour ago.” 

Nearly Headless Nick was gliding toward Harry, his 
head wobbling as usual upon his ruff. 

“I had it from the Bloody Baron, who saw him arrive,” 
said Nick. “He appeared, according to the Baron, to be 
in good spirits, though a little tired, of course.” 

“Where is he?” said Harry, his heart leaping. 

“Oh, groaning and clanking up on the Astronomy 
Tower, it’s a favorite pastime of his — ” 

“Not the Bloody Baron — Dumbledore!” 

“Oh — in his office,” said Nick. “I believe, from what 
the Baron said, that he had business to attend to 
before turning in — ” 

“Yeah, he has,” said Harry, excitement blazing in his 
chest at the prospect of telling Dumbledore he had 
secured the memory. He wheeled about and sprinted 
off again, ignoring the Fat Lady who was calling after 
him. 

“Come back! All right, I lied! I was annoyed you woke 
me up! The password’s still ‘tapeworm’!” 



Page | 554 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




But Harry was already hurtling back along the 
corridor and within minutes, he was saying “toffee 
eclairs” to Dumbledore’s gargoyle, which leapt aside, 
permitting Harry entrance onto the spiral staircase. 

“Enter,” said Dumbledore when Harry knocked. He 
sounded exhausted. 

Harry pushed open the door. There was Dumbledore’s 
office, looking the same as ever, but with black, star- 
strewn skies beyond the windows. 

“Good gracious, Harry,” said Dumbledore in surprise. 
“To what do I owe this very late pleasure?” 

“Sir — I’ve got it. I’ve got the memory from Slughorn.” 

Harry pulled out the tiny glass bottle and showed it to 
Dumbledore. For a moment or two, the headmaster 
looked stunned. Then his face split in a wide smile. 

“Harry, this is spectacular news! Very well done 
indeed! I knew you could do it!” 

All thought of the lateness of the hour apparently 
forgotten, he hurried around his desk, took the bottle 
with Slughorn’s memory in his uninjured hand, and 
strode over to the cabinet where he kept the Pensieve. 

“And now,” said Dumbledore, placing the stone basin 
upon his desk and emptying the contents of the bottle 
into it. “Now, at last, we shall see. Harry, quickly ...” 

Harry bowed obediently over the Pensieve and felt his 
feet leave the office floor. . . . Once again he fell 
through darkness and landed in Horace Slughorn’s 
office many years before. 



Page | 555 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




There was the much younger Slughorn, with his 
thick, shiny, straw-colored hair and his gingery-blond 
mustache, sitting again in the comfortable winged 
armchair in his office, his feet resting upon a velvet 
pouffe, a small glass of wine in one hand, the other 
rummaging in a box of crystalized pineapple. And 
there were the half-dozen teenage boys sitting around 
Slughorn with Tom Riddle in the midst of them, 
Marvolo’s gold-and-black ring gleaming on his finger. 

Dumbledore landed beside Harry just as Riddle 
asked, “Sir, is it true that Professor Merrythought is 
retiring?” 

“Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell you,” said 
Slughorn, wagging his finger reprovingly at Riddle, 
though winking at the same time. “I must say, I’d like 
to know where you get your information, boy, more 
knowledgeable than half the staff, you are.” 

Riddle smiled; the other boys laughed and cast him 
admiring looks. 

“What with your uncanny ability to know things you 
shouldn’t, and your careful flattery of the people who 
matter — thank you for the pineapple, by the way, 
you’re quite right, it is my favorite — ” 

Several of the boys tittered again. 

“ — I confidently expect you to rise to Minister of 
Magic within twenty years. Fifteen, if you keep 
sending me pineapple, I have excellent contacts at the 
Ministry.” 

Tom Riddle merely smiled as the others laughed 
again. Harry noticed that he was by no means the 
eldest of the group of boys, but that they all seemed 
to look to him as their leader. 

Page | 556 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t know that politics would suit me, sir,” he said 
when the laughter had died away. “I don’t have the 
right kind of background, for one thing.” 

A couple of the boys around him smirked at each 
other. Harry was sure they were enjoying a private 
joke, undoubtedly about what they knew, or 
suspected, regarding their gang leader’s famous 
ancestor. 

“Nonsense,” said Slughorn briskly, “couldn’t be 
plainer you come from decent Wizarding stock, 
abilities like yours. No, you’ll go far, Tom, I’ve never 
been wrong about a student yet.” 

The small golden clock standing upon Slughorn ’s 
desk chimed eleven o’clock behind him and he looked 
around. 

“Good gracious, is it that time already? You’d better 
get going, boys, or we’ll all be in trouble. Lestrange, I 
want your essay by tomorrow or it’s detention. Same 
goes for you, Avery.” 

One by one, the boys filed out of the room. Slughorn 
heaved himself out of his armchair and carried his 
empty glass over to his desk. A movement behind him 
made him look around; Riddle was still standing 
there. 

“Look sharp, Tom, you don’t want to be caught out of 
bed out of hours, and you a prefect ...” 

“Sir, I wanted to ask you something.” 

“Ask away, then, m’boy, ask away. ...” 

“Sir, I wondered what you know about . . . about 
Horcruxes?” 

Page | 557 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Slughorn stared at him, his thick fingers 
absentmindedly caressing the stem of his wine glass. 

“Project for Defense Against the Dark Arts, is it?” 

But Harry could tell that Slughorn knew perfectly well 
that this was not schoolwork. 

“Not exactly, sir,” said Riddle. “I came across the term 
while reading and I didn’t fully understand it.” 

“No ... well ... you’d be hard-pushed to find a book at 
Hogwarts that’ll give you details on Horcruxes, Tom, 
that’s very Dark stuff, very Dark indeed,” said 
Slughorn. 

“But you obviously know all about them, sir? I mean, 
a wizard like you — sorry, I mean, if you can’t tell me, 
obviously — I just knew if anyone could tell me, you 
could — so I just thought I’d ask — ” 

It was very well done, thought Harry, the hesitancy, 
the casual tone, the careful flattery, none of it 
overdone. He, Harry, had had too much experience of 
trying to wheedle information out of reluctant people 
not to recognize a master at work. He could tell that 
Riddle wanted the information very, very much; 
perhaps had been working toward this moment for 
weeks. 

“Well,” said Slughorn, not looking at Riddle, but 
fiddling with the ribbon on top of his box of 
crystalized pineapple, “well, it can’t hurt to give you 
an overview, of course. Just so that you understand 
the term. A Horcrux is the word used for an object in 
which a person has concealed part of their soul.” 

“I don’t quite understand how that works, though, 
sir,” said Riddle. 

Page | 558 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




His voice was carefully controlled, but Harry could 
sense his excitement. 

“Well, you split your soul, you see,” said Slughorn, 
“and hide part of it in an object outside the body. 
Then, even if one’s body is attacked or destroyed, one 
cannot die, for part of the soul remains earthbound 
and undamaged. But of course, existence in such a 
form ...” 

Slughorn ’s face crumpled and Harry found himself 
remembering words he had heard nearly two years 
before: “ I was ripped from my body, I was less than 
spirit, less than the meanest ghost . . . but still, I was 
alive.” 

“... few would want it, Tom, very few. Death would be 
preferable.” 

But Riddle’s hunger was now apparent; his 
expression was greedy, he could no longer hide his 
longing. 

“How do you split your soul?” 

“Well,” said Slughorn uncomfortably, “you must 
understand that the soul is supposed to remain intact 
and whole. Splitting it is an act of violation, it is 
against nature.” 

“But how do you do it?” 

“By an act of evil — the supreme act of evil. By 
committing murder. Killing rips the soul apart. The 
wizard intent upon creating a Horcrux would use the 
damage to his advantage: He would encase the torn 
portion — ” 

“Encase? But how — ?” 

Page | 559 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“There is a spell, do not ask me, I don’t know!” said 
Slughorn, shaking his head like an old elephant 
bothered by mosquitoes. “Do I look as though I have 
tried it — do I look like a killer?” 

“No, sir, of course not,” said Riddle quickly. “I’m sorry 
...I didn’t mean to offend ...” 

“Not at all, not at all, not offended,” said Slughorn 
gruffly. “It’s natural to feel some curiosity about these 
things. ... Wizards of a certain caliber have always 
been drawn to that aspect of magic. ...” 

“Yes, sir,” said Riddle. “What I don’t understand, 
though — just out of curiosity — I mean, would one 
Horcrux be much use? Can you only split your soul 
once? Wouldn’t it be better, make you stronger, to 
have your soul in more pieces, I mean, for instance, 
isn’t seven the most powerfully magical number, 
wouldn’t seven — ?” 

“Merlin’s beard, Tom!” yelped Slughorn. “Seven! Isn’t 
it bad enough to think of killing one person? And in 
any case . . . bad enough to divide the soul . . . but to 
rip it into seven pieces ...” 

Slughorn looked deeply troubled now: He was gazing 
at Riddle as though he had never seen him plainly 
before, and Harry could tell that he was regretting 
entering into the conversation at all. 

“Of course,” he muttered, “this is all hypothetical, 
what we’re discussing, isn’t it? All academic ...” 

“Yes, sir, of course,” said Riddle quickly. 

“But all the same, Tom ... keep it quiet, what I’ve told 
— that’s to say, what we’ve discussed. People 
wouldn’t like to think we’ve been chatting about 

Page | 560 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Horcruxes. It’s a banned subject at Hogwarts, you 
know. ... Dumbledore’s particularly fierce about it. ...” 

“I won’t say a word, sir,” said Riddle, and he left, but 
not before Harry had glimpsed his face, which was 
full of that same wild happiness it had worn when he 
had first found out that he was a wizard, the sort of 
happiness that did not enhance his handsome 
features, but made them, somehow, less human. ... 

“Thank you, Harry,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Let us 
go. ...” ' 

When Harry landed back on the office floor 
Dumbledore was already sitting down behind his 
desk. Harry sat too and waited for Dumbledore to 
speak. 

“I have been hoping for this piece of evidence for a 
very long time,” said Dumbledore at last. “It confirms 
the theory on which I have been working, it tells me 
that I am right, and also how very far there is still to 
go. ...” 

Harry suddenly noticed that every single one of the 
old headmasters and headmistresses in the portraits 
around the walls was awake and listening in on their 
conversation. A corpulent, red-nosed wizard had 
actually taken out an ear trumpet. 

“Well, Harry,” said Dumbledore, “I am sure you 
understood the significance of what we just heard. At 
the same age as you are now, give or take a few 
months, Tom Riddle was doing all he could to find out 
how to make himself immortal.” 

“You think he succeeded then, sir?” asked Harry. “He 
made a Horcrux? And that’s why he didn’t die when 



Page | 561 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




he attacked me? He had a Horcrux hidden 
somewhere? A bit of his soul was safe?” 

“A bit ... or more,” said Dumbledore. “You heard 
Voldemort: What he particularly wanted from Horace 
was an opinion on what would happen to the wizard 
who created more than one Horcrux, what would 
happen to the wizard so determined to evade death 
that he would be prepared to murder many times, rip 
his soul repeatedly, so as to store it in many, 
separately concealed Horcruxes. No book would have 
given him that information. As far as I know — as far, 
I am sure, as Voldemort knew — no wizard had ever 
done more than tear his soul in two.” 

Dumbledore paused for a moment, marshaling his 
thoughts, and then said, “Four years ago, I received 
what I considered certain proof that Voldemort had 
split his soul.” 

“Where?” asked Harry “How?” 

“You handed it to me, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “The 
diary, Riddle’s diary, the one giving instructions on 
how to reopen the Chamber of Secrets.” 

“I don’t understand, sir,” said Harry. 

“Well, although I did not see the Riddle who came out 
of the diary, what you described to me was a 
phenomenon I had never witnessed. A mere memory 
starting to act and think for itself? A mere memory, 
sapping the life out of the girl into whose hands it had 
fallen? No, something much more sinister had lived 
inside that book. ... a fragment of soul, I was almost 
sure of it. The diary had been a Horcrux. But this 
raised as many questions as it answered. 



Page | 562 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What intrigued and alarmed me most was that that 
diary had been intended as a weapon as much as a 
safeguard.” 

“I still don’t understand,” said Harry. 

“Well, it worked as a Horcrux is supposed to work — 
in other words, the fragment of soul concealed inside 
it was kept safe and had undoubtedly played its part 
in preventing the death of its owner. But there could 
be no doubt that Riddle really wanted that diary read, 
wanted the piece of his soul to inhabit or possess 
somebody else, so that Slytherin’s monster would be 
unleashed again.” 

“Well, he didn’t want his hard work to be wasted,” 
said Harry. “He wanted people to know he was 
Slytherin’s heir, because he couldn’t take credit at the 
time.” 

“Quite correct,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “But don’t 
you see, Harry, that if he intended the diary to be 
passed to, or planted on, some future Hogwarts 
student, he was being remarkably blase about that 
precious fragment of his soul concealed within it. The 
point of a Horcrux is, as Professor Slughorn 
explained, to keep part of the self hidden and safe, 
not to fling it into somebody else’s path and run the 
risk that they might destroy it — as indeed happened: 
That particular fragment of soul is no more; you saw 
to that. 

“The careless way in which Voldemort regarded this 
Horcrux seemed most ominous to me. It suggested 
that he must have made — or been planning to make 
— more Horcruxes, so that the loss of his first would 
not be so detrimental. I did not wish to believe it, but 
nothing else seemed to make sense. 



Page | 563 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Then you told me, two years later, that on the night 
that Voldemort returned to his body, he made a most 
illuminating and alarming statement to his Death 
Eaters. % who have gone further than anybody along 
the path that leads to immortality.’ That was what you 
told me he said. ‘Further than anybody,’ And I thought 
I knew what that meant, though the Death Eaters did 
not. He was referring to his Horcruxes, Horcruxes in 
the plural, Harry, which I do not believe any other 
wizard has ever had. Yet it fitted: Lord Voldemort has 
seemed to grow less human with the passing years, 
and the transformation he has undergone seemed to 
me to be only explicable if his soul was mutilated 
