was pointing through the kitchen window. Three 
black specks were clearly visible in the sky, growing 
larger all the time. 

“They’re definitely owls,” said Ron hoarsely, jumping 
up to join Hermione at the window. 

“And there are three of them,” said Harry, hastening 
to her other side. 

“One for each of us,” said Hermione in a terrified 
whisper. “Oh no ... oh no ... oh no ...” 

Page | 113 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




She gripped both Harry and Ron tightly around the 
elbows. 



The owls were flying directly at the Burrow, three 
handsome tawnies, each of which, it became clear as 
they flew lower over the path leading up to the house, 
was carrying a large square envelope. 

“Oh no\” squealed Hermione. 

Mrs. Weasley squeezed past them and opened the 
kitchen window. One, two, three, the owls soared 
through it and landed on the table in a neat line. All 
three of them lifted their right legs. 

Harry moved forward. The letter addressed to him 
was tied to the leg of the owl in the middle. He untied 
it with fumbling fingers. To his left, Ron was trying to 
detach his own results; to his right, Hermione’s 
hands were shaking so much she was making her 
whole owl tremble. 

Nobody in the kitchen spoke. At last, Harry managed 
to detach the envelope. He slit it open quickly and 
unfolded the parchment inside. 

ORDINARY WIZARDING LEVEL RESULTS 



Pass Grades Fail Grades 

Outstanding (O) Poor (P) 

Exceeds Expectations (E) Dreadful (D) 

Acceptable (A) Troll (T) 

Harry James Potter has achieved: 

Astronomy A 

Care of Magical Creatures E 

Page | 114 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Charms E 

Defense Against the Dark ArtsO 
Divination P 

Herbology E 

History of Magic D 

Potions E 

Transfiguration E 



Harry read the parchment through several times, his 
breathing becoming easier with each reading. It was 
all right: He had always known that he would fail 
Divination, and he had had no chance of passing 
History of Magic, given that he had collapsed halfway 
through the examination, but he had passed 
everything else! He ran his finger down the grades ... 
he had passed well in Transfiguration and Herbology, 
he had even exceeded expectations at Potions! And 
best of all, he had achieved “Outstanding” at Defense 
Against the Dark Arts! 

He looked around. Hermione had her back to him and 
her head bent, but Ron was looking delighted. 

“Only failed Divination and History of Magic, and who 
cares about them?” he said happily to Harry. “Here — 
swap — ” 

Harry glanced down Ron’s grades: There were no 
“Outstandings” there. ... 

“Knew you’d be top at Defense Against the Dark Arts,” 
said Ron, punching Harry on the shoulder. “We’ve 
done all right, haven’t we?” 

“Well done!” said Mrs. Weasley proudly, ruffling Ron’s 
hair. “Seven O.W.L.s, that’s more than Fred and 
George got together!” 



Page | 115 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Hermione?” said Ginny tentatively, for Hermione still 
hadn’t turned around. “How did you do?” 

“I — not bad,” said Hermione in a small voice. 

“Oh, come off it,” said Ron, striding over to her and 
whipping her results out of her hand. “Yep — nine 
‘Outstandings’ and one ‘Exceeds Expectations’ at 
Defense Against the Dark Arts.” He looked down at 
her, half-amused, half-exasperated. “You’re actually 
disappointed, aren’t you?” 

Hermione shook her head, but Harry laughed. 

“Well, we’re N.E.W.T. students now!” grinned Ron. 
“Mum, are there any more sausages?” 

Harry looked back down at his results. They were as 
good as he could have hoped for. He felt just one tiny 
twinge of regret. ... This was the end of his ambition 
to become an Auror. He had not secured the required 
Potions grade. He had known all along that he 
wouldn’t, but he still felt a sinking in his stomach as 
he looked again at that small black E. 

It was odd, really, seeing that it had been a Death 
Eater in disguise who had first told Harry he would 
make a good Auror, but somehow the idea had taken 
hold of him, and he couldn’t really think of anything 
else he would like to be. Moreover, it had seemed the 
right destiny for him since he had heard the prophecy 
a few weeks ago. ... Neither can live while the other 
survives. ... Wouldn’t he be living up to the prophecy, 
and giving himself the best chance of survival, if he 
joined those highly trained wizards whose job it was 
to find and kill Voldemort? 



Page | 116 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




6 




DRACO’S DETOUR 

Harry remained within the confines of the Burrow’s 
garden over the next few weeks. He spent most of his 
days playing two-a-side Quidditch in the Weasleys’ 
orchard (he and Hermione against Ron and Ginny; 
Hermione was dreadful and Ginny good, so they were 
reasonably well matched) and his evenings eating 
triple helpings of everything Mrs. Weasley put in front 
of him. 

It would have been a happy, peaceful holiday had it 
not been for the stories of disappearances, odd 
accidents, even of deaths now appearing almost daily 
in the Prophet Sometimes Bill and Mr. Weasley 
brought home news before it even reached the paper. 
To Mrs. Weasley’s displeasure, Harry’s sixteenth 
birthday celebrations were marred by grisly tidings 
brought to the party by Remus Lupin, who was 
looking gaunt and grim, his brown hair streaked 
liberally with gray, his clothes more ragged and 
patched than ever. 



Page | 117 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



“There have been another couple of dementor 
attacks,” he announced, as Mrs. Weasley passed him 
a large slice of birthday cake. “And they’ve found Igor 
Karkaroff’s body in a shack up north. The Dark Mark 
had been set over it — well, frankly, I’m surprised he 
stayed alive for even a year after deserting the Death 
Eaters; Sirius’s brother, Regulus, only managed a few 
days as far as I can remember.” 

“Yes, well,” said Mrs. Weasley, frowning, “perhaps we 
should talk about something diff — ” 

“Did you hear about Florean Fortescue, Remus?” 
asked Bill, who was being plied with wine by Fleur. 
“The man who ran — ” 

“ — the ice-cream place in Diagon Alley?” Harry 
interrupted, with an unpleasant, hollow sensation in 
the pit of his stomach. “He used to give me free ice 
creams. What’s happened to him?” 

“Dragged off, by the look of his place.” 

“Why?” asked Ron, while Mrs. Weasley pointedly 
glared at Bill. 

“Who knows? He must’ve upset them somehow. He 
was a good man, Florean.” 

“Talking of Diagon Alley,” said Mr. Weasley, “looks 
like Ollivander’s gone too.” 

“The wandmaker?” said Ginny, looking startled. 

“That’s the one. Shop’s empty. No sign of a struggle. 
No one knows whether he left voluntarily or was 
kidnapped.” 

“But wands — what’ll people do for wands?” 

Page | 118 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“They’ll make do with other makers,” said Lupin. “But 
Ollivander was the best, and if the other side have got 
him it’s not so good for us.” 

The day after this rather gloomy birthday tea, their 
letters and booklists arrived from Hogwarts. Harry’s 
included a surprise: He had been made Quidditch 
Captain. 

“That gives you equal status with prefects!” cried 
Hermione happily. “You can use our special bathroom 
now and everything!” 

“Wow, I remember when Charlie wore one of these,” 
said Ron, examining the badge with glee. “Harry, this 
is so cool, you’re my Captain — if you let me back on 
the team, I suppose, ha ha. ...” 

“Well, I don’t suppose we can put off a trip to Diagon 
Alley much longer now you’ve got these,” sighed Mrs. 
Weasley, looking down Ron’s booklist. “We’ll go on 
Saturday as long as your father doesn’t have to go 
into work again. I’m not going there without him.” 

“Mum, d’you honestly think You-Know- Who’s going to 
be hiding behind a bookshelf in Flourish and Blotts?” 
sniggered Ron. 

“Fortescue and Ollivander went on holiday, did they?” 
said Mrs. Weasley, firing up at once. “If you think 
security’s a laughing matter you can stay behind and 
I’ll get your things myself — ” 

“No, I wanna come, I want to see Fred and George’s 
shop!” said Ron hastily. 

“Then you just buck up your ideas, young man, 
before I decide you’re too immature to come with us!” 
said Mrs. Weasley angrily, snatching up her clock, all 

Page | 119 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




nine hands of which were still pointing at “mortal 
peril,” and balancing it on top of a pile of just- 
laundered towels. “And that goes for returning to 
Hogwarts as well!” 

Ron turned to stare incredulously at Harry as his 
mother hoisted the laundry basket and the teetering 
clock into her arms and stormed out of the room. 

“Blimey ... you can’t even make a joke round here 
anymore. ...” 

But Ron was careful not to be flippant about 
Voldemort over the next few days. Saturday dawned 
without any more outbursts from Mrs. Weasley, 
though she seemed very tense at breakfast. Bill, who 
would be staying at home with Fleur (much to 
Hermione and Ginny’s pleasure), passed a full money 
bag across the table to Harry. 

“Where’s mine?” demanded Ron at once, his eyes 
wide. 

“That’s already Harry’s, idiot,” said Bill. “I got it out of 
your vault for you, Harry, because it’s taking about 
five hours for the public to get to their gold at the 
moment, the goblins have tightened security so 
much. Two days ago Arkie Philpott had a Probity 
Probe stuck up his ... Well, trust me, this way’s 
easier.” 

“Thanks, Bill,” said Harry, pocketing his gold. 

“ ’E is always so thoughtful,” purred Fleur adoringly, 
stroking Bill’s nose. Ginny mimed vomiting into her 
cereal behind Fleur. Harry choked over his 
cornflakes, and Ron thumped him on the back. 



Page | 120 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




It was an overcast, murky day. One of the special 
Ministry of Magic cars, in which Harry had ridden 
once before, was awaiting them in the front yard 
when they emerged from the house, pulling on their 
cloaks. 

“It’s good Dad can get us these again,” said Ron 
appreciatively, stretching luxuriously as the car 
moved smoothly away from the Burrow, Bill and Fleur 
waving from the kitchen window. He, Harry, 

Hermione, and Ginny were all sitting in roomy 
comfort in the wide backseat. 

“Don’t get used to it, it’s only because of Harry,” said 
Mr. Weasley over his shoulder. He and Mrs. Weasley 
were in front with the Ministry driver; the front 
passenger seat had obligingly stretched into what 
resembled a two-seater sofa. “He’s been given top- 
grade security status. And we’ll be joining up with 
additional security at the Leaky Cauldron too.” 

Harry said nothing; he did not much fancy doing his 
shopping while surrounded by a battalion of Aurors. 
He had stowed his Invisibility Cloak in his backpack 
and felt that, if that was good enough for 
Dumbledore, it ought to be good enough for the 
Ministry, though now he came to think of it, he was 
not sure the Ministry knew about his cloak. 

“Here you are, then,” said the driver, a surprisingly 
short while later, speaking for the first time as he 
slowed in Charing Cross Road and stopped outside 
the Leaky Cauldron. “I’m to wait for you, any idea 
how long you 11 be?” 

“A couple of hours, I expect,” said Mr. Weasley. “Ah, 
good, he’s here!” 



Page | 121 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry imitated Mr. Weasley and peered through the 
window; his heart leapt. There were no Aurors waiting 
outside the inn, but instead the gigantic, black- 
bearded form of Rubeus Hagrid, the Hogwarts 
gamekeeper, wearing a long beaverskin coat, beaming 
at the sight of Harry’s face and oblivious to the 
startled stares of passing Muggles. 

“Harry!” he boomed, sweeping Harry into a bone- 
crushing hug the moment Harry had stepped out of 
the car. “Buckbeak — Witherwings, I mean — yeh 
should see him, Harry, he’s so happy ter be back in 
the open air — ” 

“Glad he’s pleased,” said Harry, grinning as he 
massaged his ribs. “We didn’t know ‘security’ meant 
you!” 

“I know, jus’ like old times, innit? See, the Ministry 
wanted ter send a bunch o’ Aurors, but Dumbledore 
said I’d do,” said Hagrid proudly, throwing out his 
chest and tucking his thumbs into his pockets. “Let’s 
get goin’ then — after yeh, Molly, Arthur — ” 

The Leaky Cauldron was, for the first time in Harry’s 
memory, completely empty. Only Tom the landlord, 
wizened and toothless, remained of the old crowd. He 
looked up hopefully as they entered, but before he 
could speak, Hagrid said importantly, “Jus’ passin’ 
through today, Tom, sure yeh understand, Hogwarts 
business, yeh know.” 

Tom nodded gloomily and returned to wiping glasses; 
Harry, Hermione, Hagrid, and the Weasleys walked 
through the bar and out into the chilly little courtyard 
at the back where the dustbins stood. Hagrid raised 
his pink umbrella and rapped a certain brick in the 
wall, which opened at once to form an archway onto a 



Page | 122 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




winding cobbled street. They stepped through the 
entrance and paused, looking around. 

Diagon Alley had changed. The colorful, glittering 
window displays of spellbooks, potion ingredients, 
and cauldrons were lost to view, hidden behind the 
large Ministry of Magic posters that had been pasted 
over them. Most of these somber purple posters 
carried blown-up versions of the security advice on 
the Ministry pamphlets that had been sent out over 
the summer, but others bore moving black-and-white 
photographs of Death Eaters known to be on the 
loose. Bellatrix Lestrange was sneering from the front 
of the nearest apothecary. A few windows were 
boarded up, including those of Florean Fortescue’s Ice 
Cream Parlor. On the other hand, a number of 
shabby-looking stalls had sprung up along the street. 
The nearest one, which had been erected outside 
Flourish and Blotts, under a striped, stained awning, 
had a cardboard sign pinned to its front: 

AMULETS 

Effective Against Werewolves, Dementors, and Inferi 

A seedy-looking little wizard was rattling armfuls of 
silver symbols on chains at passersby. 

“One for your little girl, madam?” he called at Mrs. 
Weasley as they passed, leering at Ginny. “Protect her 
pretty neck?” 

“If I were on duty ...” said Mr. Weasley, glaring angrily 
at the amulet seller. 

“Yes, but don’t go arresting anyone now, dear, we’re 
in a hurry,” said Mrs. Weasley, nervously consulting a 
list. “I think we’d better do Madam Malkin’s first, 
Hermione wants new dress robes, and Ron’s showing 

Page | 123 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




much too much ankle in his school robes, and you 
must need new ones too, Harry, you’ve grown so 
much — come on, everyone — ” 

“Molly, it doesn’t make sense for all of us to go to 
Madam Malkin’s,” said Mr. Weasley. “Why don’t those 
three go with Hagrid, and we can go to Flourish and 
Blotts and get everyone’s schoolbooks?” 

“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Weasley anxiously, clearly 
torn between a desire to finish the shopping quickly 
and the wish to stick together in a pack. “Hagrid, do 
you think — ?” 

“Don’ fret, they’ll be fine with me, Molly,” said Hagrid 
soothingly, waving an airy hand the size of a dustbin 
lid. Mrs. Weasley did not look entirely convinced, but 
allowed the separation, scurrying off toward Flourish 
and Blotts with her husband and Ginny while Harry, 
Ron, Hermione, and Hagrid set off for Madam 
Malkin’s. 

Harry noticed that many of the people who passed 
them had the same harried, anxious look as Mrs. 
Weasley, and that nobody was stopping to talk 
anymore; the shoppers stayed together in their own 
tightly knit groups, moving intently about their 
business. Nobody seemed to be shopping alone. 

“Migh’ be a bit of a squeeze in there with all of us,” 
said Hagrid, stopping outside Madam Malkin’s and 
bending down to peer through the window. “I’ll stand 
guard outside, all right?” 

So Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the little shop 
together. It appeared, at first glance, to be empty, but 
no sooner had the door swung shut behind them than 
they heard a familiar voice issuing from behind a rack 
of dress robes in spangled green and blue. 

Page | 124 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




"... not a child, in case you haven’t noticed, Mother. I 
am perfectly capable of doing my shopping alone.” 

There was a clucking noise and a voice Harry 
recognized as that of Madam Malkin, the owner, said, 
“Now, dear, your mother’s quite right, none of us is 
supposed to go wandering around on our own 
anymore, it’s nothing to do with being a child — ” 

“Watch where you’re sticking that pin, will you!” 

A teenage boy with a pale, pointed face and white- 
blond hair appeared from behind the rack, wearing a 
handsome set of dark green robes that glittered with 
pins around the hem and the edges of the sleeves. He 
strode to the mirror and examined himself; it was a 
few moments before he noticed Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione reflected over his shoulder. His light gray 
eyes narrowed. 

“If you’re wondering what the smell is, Mother, a 
Mudblood just walked in,” said Draco Malfoy. 

“I don’t think there’s any need for language like that!” 
said Madam Malkin, scurrying out from behind the 
clothes rack holding a tape measure and a wand. 
“And I don’t want wands drawn in my shop either!” 
she added hastily, for a glance toward the door had 
shown her Harry and Ron both standing there with 
their wands out and pointing at Malfoy. Hermione, 
who was standing slightly behind them, whispered, 
“No, don’t, honestly, it’s not worth it. ...” 

“Yeah, like you’d dare do magic out of school,” 
sneered Malfoy. “Who blacked your eye, Granger? I 
want to send them flowers.” 



Page | 125 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s quite enough!” said Madam Malkin sharply, 
looking over her shoulder for support. “Madam — 
please — ” 

Narcissa Malfoy strolled out from behind the clothes 
rack. 

“Put those away,” she said coldly to Harry and Ron. 

“If you attack my son again, I shall ensure that it is 
the last thing you ever do.” 

“Really?” said Harry, taking a step forward and gazing 
into the smoothly arrogant face that, for all its pallor, 
still resembled her sister’s. He was as tall as she was 
now. “Going to get a few Death Eater pals to do us in, 
are you?” 

Madam Malkin squealed and clutched at her heart. 

“Really, you shouldn’t accuse — dangerous thing to 
say — wands away, please!” 

But Harry did not lower his wand. Narcissa Malfoy 
smiled unpleasantly. 

“I see that being Dumbledore’s favorite has given you 
a false sense of security, Harry Potter. But 
Dumbledore won’t always be there to protect you.” 

Harry looked mockingly all around the shop. “Wow ... 
look at that ... he’s not here now! So why not have a 
go? They might be able to find you a double cell in 
Azkaban with your loser of a husband!” 

Malfoy made an angry movement toward Harry, but 
stumbled over his overlong robe. Ron laughed loudly. 

“Don’t you dare talk to my mother like that, Potter!” 
Malfoy snarled. 

Page | 126 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s all right, Draco,” said Narcissa, restraining him 
with her thin white fingers upon his shoulder. “I 
expect Potter will be reunited with dear Sirius before I 
am reunited with Lucius.” 

Harry raised his wand higher. 

“Harry, no!” moaned Hermione, grabbing his arm and 
attempting to push it down by his side. “Think. ... 

You mustn’t. ... You’ll be in such trouble. ...” 

Madam Malkin dithered for a moment on the spot, 
then seemed to decide to act as though nothing was 
happening in the hope that it wouldn’t. She bent 
toward Malfoy, who was still glaring at Harry. 

“I think this left sleeve could come up a little bit more, 
dear, let me just — ” 

“Ouch!” bellowed Malfoy, slapping her hand away. 
“Watch where you’re putting your pins, woman! 
Mother — I don’t think I want these anymore — ” 

He pulled the robes over his head and threw them 
onto the floor at Madam Malkin’s feet. 

“You’re right, Draco,” said Narcissa, with a 
contemptuous glance at Hermione, “now I know the 
kind of scum that shops here. ... We’ll do better at 
Twilfitt and Tatting’s.” 

And with that, the pair of them strode out of the 
shop, Malfoy taking care to bang as hard as he could 
into Ron on the way out. 

“Well, reallyl” said Madam Malkin, snatching up the 
fallen robes and moving the tip of her wand over them 
like a vacuum cleaner, so that it removed all the dust. 



Page | 127 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




She was distracted all through the fitting of Ron’s and 
Harry’s new robes, tried to sell Hermione wizard’s 
dress robes instead of witch’s, and when she finally 
bowed them out of the shop it was with an air of 
being glad to see the back of them. 

“Got ev’rything?” asked Hagrid brightly when they 
reappeared at his side. 

“Just about,” said Harry. “Did you see the Malfoys?” 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, unconcerned. “Bu’ they wouldn’ 
dare make trouble in the middle o’ Diagon Alley, 
Harry. Don’ worry abou’ them.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged looks, but 
before they could disabuse Hagrid of this comfortable 
notion, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Ginny appeared, all 
clutching heavy packages of books. 

“Everyone all right?” said Mrs. Weasley. “Got your 
robes? Right then, we can pop in at the Apothecary 
and Eeylops on the way to Fred and George’s — stick 
close, now. ...” 

Neither Harry nor Ron bought any ingredients at the 
Apothecary, seeing that they were no longer studying 
Potions, but both bought large boxes of owl nuts for 
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon at Eeylops Owl Emporium. 
Then, with Mrs. Weasley checking her watch every 
minute or so, they headed farther along the street in 
search of Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes, the joke shop 
run by Fred and George. 

“We really haven’t got too long,” Mrs. Weasley said. 

“So we’ll just have a quick look around and then back 
to the car. We must be close, that’s number ninety- 
two ... ninety-four ...” 



Page | 128 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Whoa,” said Ron, stopping in his tracks. 

Set against the dull, poster-muffled shop fronts 
around them, Fred and George’s windows hit the eye 
like a firework display. Casual passersby were looking 
back over their shoulders at the windows, and a few 
rather stunned-looking people had actually come to a 
halt, transfixed. The left-hand window was dazzlingly 
full of an assortment of goods that revolved, popped, 
flashed, bounced, and shrieked; Harry’s eyes began to 
water just looking at it. The right-hand window was 
covered with a gigantic poster, purple like those of the 
Ministry, but emblazoned with flashing yellow letters: 

WHY ARE YOU WORRYING ABOUT 

YOU-KNOW-WHO? 

YOU SHOULD BE WORRYING ABOUT 
U-NO-POO— 

THE CONSTIPATION SENSATION 
THAT’S GRIPPING THE NATION! 

Harry started to laugh. He heard a weak sort of moan 
beside him and looked around to see Mrs. Weasley 
gazing, dumbfounded, at the poster. Her lips moved 
silently, mouthing the name “U-No-Poo.” 

“They’ll be murdered in their beds!” she whispered. 

“No they won’t!” said Ron, who, like Harry, was 
laughing. “This is brilliant!” 

And he and Harry led the way into the shop. It was 
packed with customers; Harry could not get near the 

Page | 129 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




shelves. He stared around, looking up at the boxes 
piled to the ceiling: Here were the Skiving Snackboxes 
that the twins had perfected during their last, 
unfinished year at Hogwarts; Harry noticed that the 
Nosebleed Nougat was most popular, with only one 
battered box left on the shelf. There were bins full of 
trick wands, the cheapest merely turning into rubber 
chickens or pairs of briefs when waved, the most 
expensive beating the unwary user around the head 
and neck, and boxes of quills, which came in Self- 
Inking, Spell-Checking, and Smart-Answer varieties. 

A space cleared in the crowd, and Harry pushed his 
way toward the counter, where a gaggle of delighted 
ten-year-olds was watching a tiny little wooden man 
slowly ascending the steps to a real set of gallows, 
both perched on a box that read: REUSABLE 
HANGMAN — SPELL IT OR HE’LL SWING! 

“ ‘Patented Daydream Charms . . . ’ ” 

Hermione had managed to squeeze through to a large 
display near the counter and was reading the 
information on the back of a box bearing a highly 
colored picture of a handsome youth and a swooning 
girl who were standing on the deck of a pirate ship. 

“ ‘One simple incantation and you will enter a top- 
quality, highly realistic, thirty-minute daydream, easy 
to fit into the average school lesson and virtually 
undetectable (side effects include vacant expression 
and minor drooling). Not for sale to under-sixteens.’ 
You know,” said Hermione, looking up at Harry, “that 
really is extraordinary magic!” 

“For that, Hermione,” said a voice behind them, “you 
can have one for free.” 



Page | 130 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




A beaming Fred stood before them, wearing a set of 
magenta robes that clashed magnificently with his 
flaming hair. 

“How are you, Harry?” They shook hands. “And 
what’s happened to your eye, Hermione?” 

“Your punching telescope,” she said ruefully. 

“Oh blimey, I forgot about those,” said Fred. “Here — ” 

He pulled a tub out of his pocket and handed it to 
her; she unscrewed it gingerly to reveal a thick yellow 
paste. 

“Just dab it on, that bruise’ll be gone within the 
hour,” said Fred. “We had to find a decent bruise 
remover. We’re testing most of our products on 
ourselves.” 

Hermione looked nervous. “It is safe, isn’t it?” she 
asked. 

“ ’Course it is,” said Fred bracingly. “Come on, Harry, 
I’ll give you a tour.” 

Harry left Hermione dabbing her black eye with paste 
and followed Fred toward the back of the shop, where 
he saw a stand of card and rope tricks. 

“Muggle magic tricks!” said Fred happily, pointing 
them out. “For freaks like Dad, you know, who love 
Muggle stuff. It’s not a big earner, but we do fairly 
steady business, they’re great novelties. ... Oh, here’s 
George. ...” 

Fred’s twin shook Harry’s hand energetically. 



Page | 131 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Giving him the tour? Come through the back, Harry, 
that’s where we’re making the real money — pocket 
anything, you, and you’ll pay in more than GalleonsV’ 
he added warningly to a small boy who hastily 
whipped his hand out of the tub labeled EDIBLE 
DARK MARKS — THEY’LL MAKE ANYONE SICK! 

George pushed back a curtain beside the Muggle 
tricks and Harry saw a darker, less crowded room. 
The packaging on the products lining these shelves 
was more subdued. 

“We’ve just developed this more serious line,” said 
Fred. “Funny how it happened ...” 

“You wouldn’t believe how many people, even people 
who work at the Ministry, can’t do a decent Shield 
Charm,” said George. “ ’Course, they didn’t have you 
teaching them, Harry.” 

“That’s right. ... Well, we thought Shield Hats were a 
bit of a laugh, you know, challenge your mate to jinx 
you while wearing it and watch his face when the jinx 
just bounces off. But the Ministry bought five 
hundred for all its support staff! And we’re still 
getting massive orders!” 

“So we’ve expanded into a range of Shield Cloaks, 
Shield Gloves ...” 

"... I mean, they wouldn’t help much against the 
Unforgivable Curses, but for minor to moderate hexes 
or jinxes ...” 

“And then we thought we’d get into the whole area of 
Defense Against the Dark Arts, because it’s such a 
money spinner,” continued George enthusiastically. 
“This is cool. Look, Instant Darkness Powder, we’re 



Page | 132 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




importing it from Peru. Handy if you want to make a 
quick escape.” 

“And our Decoy Detonators are just walking off the 
shelves, look,” said Fred, pointing at a number of 
weird-looking black horn-type objects that were 
indeed attempting to scurry out of sight. “You just 
drop one surreptitiously and it’ll run off and make a 
nice loud noise out of sight, giving you a diversion if 
you need one. 

“Handy,” said Harry, impressed. 

“Here,” said George, catching a couple and throwing 
them to Harry. 

A young witch with short blonde hair poked her head 
around the curtain; Harry saw that she too was 
wearing magenta staff robes. 

“There’s a customer out here looking for a joke 
cauldron, Mr. Weasley and Mr. Weasley,” she said. 

Harry found it very odd to hear Fred and George 
called “Mr. Weasley,” but they took it in their stride. 

“Right you are, Verity, I’m coming,” said George 
promptly. “Harry, you help yourself to anything you 
want, all right? No charge.” 

“I can’t do that!” said Harry, who had already pulled 
out his money bag to pay for the Decoy Detonators. 

“You don’t pay here,” said Fred firmly, waving away 
Harry’s gold. 

“But — ” 



Page | 133 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You gave us our start-up loan, we haven’t forgotten,” 
said George sternly. “Take whatever you like, and just 
remember to tell people where you got it, if they ask.” 

George swept off through the curtain to help with the 
customers, and Fred led Harry back into the main 
part of the shop to find Hermione and Ginny still 
poring over the Patented Daydream Charms. 

“Haven’t you girls found our special WonderWitch 
products yet?” asked Fred. “Follow me, ladies. ...” 

Near the window was an array of violently pink 
products around which a cluster of excited girls was 
giggling enthusiastically. Hermione and Ginny both 
hung back, looking wary. 

“There you go,” said Fred proudly. “Best range of love 
potions you’ll find anywhere.” 

Ginny raised an eyebrow skeptically. “Do they work?” 
she asked. 

“Certainly they work, for up to twenty-four hours at a 
time depending on the weight of the boy in question 



“ — and the attractiveness of the girl,” said George, 
reappearing suddenly at their side. “But we’re not 
selling them to our sister,” he added, becoming 
suddenly stern, “not when she’s already got about five 
boys on the go from what we’ve — ” 

“Whatever you’ve heard from Ron is a big fat lie,” said 
Ginny calmly, leaning forward to take a small pink 
pot off the shelf. “What’s this?” 

“Guaranteed ten-second pimple vanisher,” said Fred. 
“Excellent on everything from boils to blackheads, but 

Page | 134 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




don’t change the subject. Are you or are you not 
currently going out with a boy called Dean Thomas?” 

“Yes, I am,” said Ginny. “And last time I looked, he 
was definitely one boy, not five. What are those?” 

She was pointing at a number of round balls of fluff 
in shades of pink and purple, all rolling around the 
bottom of a cage and emitting high-pitched squeaks. 

“Pygmy Puffs,” said George. “Miniature puffskeins, we 
can’t breed them fast enough. So what about Michael 
Corner?” 

“I dumped him, he was a bad loser,” said Ginny, 
putting a finger through the bars of the cage and 
watching the Pygmy Puffs crowd around it. “They’re 
really cute!” 

“They’re fairly cuddly, yes,” conceded Fred. “But 
you’re moving through boyfriends a bit fast, aren’t 
you?” 

Ginny turned to look at him, her hands on her hips. 
There was such a Mrs. Weasley-ish glare on her face 
that Harry was surprised Fred didn’t recoil. 

“It’s none of your business. And I’ll thank you,” she 
added angrily to Ron, who had just appeared at 
George’s elbow, laden with merchandise, “not to tell 
tales about me to these two!” 
