shiny control consoles along the wall. He looks slightly
yellow and has lost a lot of weight, giving him a shrunken
appearance. For a second, I'm afraid he's dying. I have to
remind myself that I don't care.
The first thing Haymitch does is to show the footage
we've just shot. I seem to have reached some new low
under Plutarch and Fulvia's guidance. Both my voice and
body have a jerky, disjointed quality, like a puppet being
manipulated by unseen forces.
"All right," Haymitch says when it's over. "Would
anyone like to argue that this is of use to us in winning the
war?" No one does. "That saves time. So, let's all be quiet
for a minute. I want everyone to think of one incident where
Katniss Everdeen genuinely moved you. Not where you
were jealous of her hairstyle, or her dress went up in flames
or she made a halfway decent shot with an arrow. Not
where Peeta was making you like her. I want to hear one
moment where she made you feel something real."
Quiet stretches out and I'm beginning to think it will
never end, when Leevy speaks up. "When she volunteered
to take Prim's place at the reaping. Because I'm sure she
thought she was going to die."
"Good. Excellent example," says Haymitch. He takes a
purple marker and writes on a notepad. "Volunteered for
sister at reaping." Haymitch looks around the table.
"Somebody else."
I'm surprised that the next speaker is Boggs, who I
think of as a muscular robot that does Coin's bidding.
"When she sang the song. While the little girl died."
Somewhere in my head an image surfaces of Boggs with a
young boy perched up on his hip. In the dining hall, I think.
Maybe he's not a robot after all.
"Who didn't get choked up at that, right?" says
Haymitch, writing it down.
"I cried when she drugged Peeta so she could go get
him medicine and when she kissed him good-bye!" blurts
out Octavia. Then she covers her mouth, like she's sure this
was a bad mistake.
But Haymitch only nods. "Oh, yeah. Drugs Peeta to
save his life. Very nice."
The moments begin to come thick and fast and in no
particular order. When I took Rue on as an ally. Extended
my hand to Chaff on interview night. Tried to carry Mags.
And again and again when I held out those berries that
meant different things to different people. Love for Peeta.
Refusal to give in under impossible odds. Defiance of the
Capitol's inhumanity.
Haymitch holds up the notepad. "So, the question is,
what do all of these have in common?"
"They were Katniss's," says Gale quietly. "No one told
her what to do or say."
"Unscripted, yes!" says Beetee. He reaches over and
pats my hand. "So we should just leave you alone, right?"
People laugh. I even smile a little.
"Well, that's all very nice but not very helpful," says
Fulvia peevishly. "Unfortunately, her opportunities for being
wonderful are rather limited here in Thirteen. So unless
you're suggesting we toss her into the middle of combat--"
"That's exactly what I'm suggesting," says Haymitch.
"Put her out in the field and just keep the cameras rolling."
"But people think she's pregnant," Gale points out.
"We'll spread the word that she lost the baby from the
electrical shock in the arena," Plutarch replies. "Very sad.
Very unfortunate."
The idea of sending me into combat is controversial.
But Haymitch has a pretty tight case. If I perform well only in
real-life circumstances, then into them I should go. "Every
time we coach her or give her lines, the best we can hope
for is okay. It has to come from her. That's what people are
responding to."
"Even if we're careful, we can't guarantee her safety,"
says Boggs. "She'll be a target for every--"
"I want to go," I break in. "I'm no help to the rebels
here."
"And if you're killed?" asks Coin.
"Make sure you get some footage. You can use that,
anyway," I answer.
"Fine," says Coin. "But let's take it one step at a time.
Find the least dangerous situation that can evoke some
spontaneity in you." She walks around Command, studying
the illuminated district maps that show the ongoing troop
positions in the war. "Take her into Eight this afternoon.
There was heavy bombing this morning, but the raid seems
to have run its course. I want her armed with a squad of
bodyguards. Camera crew on the ground. Haymitch, you'll
be airborne and in contact with her. Let's see what happens
there. Does anyone have any other comments?"
"Wash her face," says Dalton. Everyone turns to him.
"She's still a girl and you made her look thirty-five. Feels
wrong. Like something the Capitol would do."
As Coin adjourns the meeting, Haymitch asks her if he
can speak to me privately. The others leave except for
Gale, who lingers uncertainly by my side. "What are you
worried about?" Haymitch asks him. "I'm the one who
needs the bodyguard."
"It's okay," I tell Gale, and he goes. Then there's just the
hum of the instruments, the purr of the ventilation system.
Haymitch takes the seat across from me. "We're going
to have to work together again. So, go ahead. Just say it."
I think of the snarling, cruel exchange back on the
hovercraft. The bitterness that followed. But all I say is "I
can't believe you didn't rescue Peeta."
"I know," he replies.
There's a sense of incompleteness. And not because
he hasn't apologized. But because we were a team. We
had a deal to keep Peeta safe. A drunken, unrealistic deal
made in the dark of night, but a deal just the same. And in
my heart of hearts, I know we both failed.
"Now you say it," I tell him.
"I can't believe you let him out of your sight that night,"
says Haymitch.
I nod. That's it. "I play it over and over in my head. What
I could have done to keep him by my side without breaking
the alliance. But nothing comes to me."
"You didn't have a choice. And even if I could've made
Plutarch stay and rescue him that night, the whole
hovercraft would've gone down. We barely got out as it
was." I finally meet Haymitch's eyes. Seam eyes. Gray and
deep and ringed with the circles of sleepless nights. "He's
not dead yet, Katniss."
"We're still in the game." I try to say this with optimism,
but my voice cracks.
"Still in. And I'm still your mentor." Haymitch points his
marker at me. "When you're on the ground, remember I'm
airborne. I'll have the better view, so do what I tell you."
"We'll see," I answer.
I return to the Remake Room and watch the streaks of
makeup disappear down the drain as I scrub my face
clean. The person in the mirror looks ragged, with her
uneven skin and tired eyes, but she looks like me. I rip the
armband off, revealing the ugly scar from the tracker. There.
That looks like me, too.
Since I'll be in a combat zone, Beetee helps me with
armor Cinna designed. A helmet of some interwoven metal
that fits close to my head. The material's supple, like fabric,
and can be drawn back like a hood in case I don't want it up
full-time. A vest to reinforce the protection over my vital
organs. A small white earpiece that attaches to my collar by
a wire. Beetee secures a mask to my belt that I don't have
to wear unless there's a gas attack. "If you see anyone
dropping for reasons you can't explain, put it on
immediately," he says. Finally, he straps a sheath divided
into three cylinders of arrows to my back. "Just remember:
Right side, fire. Left side, explosive. Center, regular. You
shouldn't need them, but better safe than sorry."
Boggs shows up to escort me down to the Airborne
Division. Just as the elevator arrives, Finnick appears in a
state of agitation. "Katniss, they won't let me go! I told them
I'm fine, but they won't even let me ride in the hovercraft!"
I take in Finnick--his bare legs showing between his
hospital gown and slippers, his tangle of hair, the halfknotted
rope twisted around his fingers, the wild look in his
eyes--and know any plea on my part will be useless. Even I
don't think it's a good idea to bring him. So I smack my
hand on my forehead and say, "Oh, I forgot. It's this stupid
concussion. I was supposed to tell you to report to Beetee
in Special Weaponry. He's designed a new trident for you."
At the word trident, it's as if the old Finnick surfaces.
"Really? What's it do?"
"I don't know. But if it's anything like my bow and
arrows, you're going to love it," I say. "You'll need to train
with it, though."
"Right. Of course. I guess I better get down there," he
says.
"Finnick?" I say. "Maybe some pants?"
He looks down at his legs as if noticing his outfit for the
first time. Then he whips off his hospital gown, leaving him
in just his underwear. "Why? Do you find this"--he strikes a
ridiculously provocative pose--"distracting?"
I can't help laughing because it's funny, and it's extra
funny because it makes Boggs look so uncomfortable, and
I'm happy because Finnick actually sounds like the guy I
met at the Quarter Quell.
"I'm only human, Odair." I get in before the elevator
doors close. "Sorry," I say to Boggs.
"Don't be. I thought you...handled that well," he says.
"Better than my having to arrest him, anyway."
"Yeah," I say. I sneak a sidelong glance at him. He's
probably in his mid-forties, with close-cropped gray hair
and blue eyes. Incredible posture. He's spoken out twice
today in ways that make me think he would rather be
friends than enemies. Maybe I should give him a chance.
But he just seems so in step with Coin....
There's a series of loud clicks. The elevator comes to
a slight pause and then begins to move laterally to the left.
"It goes sideways?" I ask.
"Yes. There's a whole network of elevator paths under
Thirteen," he answers. "This one lies just above the
transport spoke to the fifth airlift platform. It's taking us to
the Hangar."
The Hangar. The dungeons. Special Defense.
Somewhere food is grown. Power generated. Air and
water purified. "Thirteen is even larger than I thought."
"Can't take credit for much of it," says Boggs. "We
basically inherited the place. It's been all we can do to keep
it running."
The clicks resume. We drop down again briefly--just a
couple of levels--and the doors open on the Hangar.
"Oh," I let out involuntarily at the sight of the fleet. Row
after row of different kinds of hovercraft. "Did you inherit
these, too?"
"Some we manufactured. Some were part of the
Capitol's air force. They've been updated, of course," says
Boggs.
I feel that twinge of hatred against 13 again. "So, you
had all this, and you left the rest of the districts defenseless
against the Capitol."
"It's not that simple," he shoots back. "We were in no
position to launch a counterattack until recently. We could
barely stay alive. After we'd overthrown and executed the
Capitol's people, only a handful of us even knew how to
pilot. We could've nuked them with missiles, yes. But
there's always the larger question: If we engage in that type
of war with the Capitol, would there be any human life left?"
"That sounds like what Peeta said. And you all called
him a traitor," I counter.
"Because he called for a cease-fire," says Boggs.
"You'll notice neither side has launched nuclear weapons.
We're working it out the old-fashioned way. Over here,
Soldier Everdeen." He indicates one of the smaller
hovercraft.
I mount the stairs and find it packed with the television
crew and equipment. Everyone else is dressed in 13's dark
gray military jumpsuits, even Haymitch, although he seems
unhappy about the snugness of his collar.
Fulvia Cardew hustles over and makes a sound of
frustration when she sees my clean face. "All that work,
down the drain. I'm not blaming you, Katniss. It's just that
very few people are born with camera-ready faces. Like
him." She snags Gale, who's in a conversation with
Plutarch, and spins him toward us. "Isn't he handsome?"
Gale does look striking in the uniform, I guess. But the
question just embarrasses us both, given our history. I'm
trying to think of a witty comeback, when Boggs says
brusquely, "Well, don't expect us to be too impressed. We
just saw Finnick Odair in his underwear." I decide to go
ahead and like Boggs.
There's a warning of the upcoming takeoff and I strap
myself into a seat next to Gale, facing off with Haymitch and
Plutarch. We glide through a maze of tunnels that opens out
onto a platform. Some sort of elevator device lifts the craft
slowly up through the levels. All at once we're outside in a
large field surrounded by woods, then we rise off the
platform and become wrapped in clouds.
Now that the flurry of activity leading up to this mission
is over, I realize I have no idea what I'm facing on this trip to
District 8. In fact, I know very little about the actual state of
the war. Or what it would take to win it. Or what would
happen if we did.
Plutarch tries to lay it out in simple terms for me. First
of all, every district is currently at war with the Capitol
except 2, which has always had a favored relationship with
our enemies despite its participation in the Hunger Games.
They get more food and better living conditions. After the
Dark Days and the supposed destruction of 13, District 2
became the Capitol's new center of defense, although it's
publicly presented as the home of the nation's stone
quarries, in the same way that 13 was known for graphite
mining. District 2 not only manufactures weaponry, it trains
and even supplies Peacekeepers.
"You mean...some of the Peacekeepers are born in
Two?" I ask. "I thought they all came from the Capitol."
Plutarch nods. "That's what you're supposed to think.
And some do come from the Capitol. But its population
could never sustain a force that size. Then there's the
problem of recruiting Capitol-raised citizens for a dull life of
deprivation in the districts. A twenty-year commitment to the
Peacekeepers, no marriage, no children allowed. Some
buy into it for the honor of the thing, others take it on as an
alternative to punishment. For instance, join the
Peacekeepers and your debts are forgiven. Many people
are swamped in debt in the Capitol, but not all of them are
fit for military duty. So District Two is where we turn for
additional troops. It's a way for their people to escape
poverty and a life in the quarries. They're raised with a
warrior mind-set. You've seen how eager their children are
to volunteer to be tributes."
Cato and Clove. Brutus and Enobaria. I've seen their
eagerness and their bloodlust, too. "But all the other
districts are on our side?" I ask.
"Yes. Our goal is to take over the districts one by one,
ending with District Two, thus cutting off the Capitol's supply
chain. Then, once it's weakened, we invade the Capitol
itself," says Plutarch. "That will be a whole other type of
challenge. But we'll cross that bridge when we come to it."
"If we win, who would be in charge of the government?"
Gale asks.
"Everyone," Plutarch tells him. "We're going to form a
republic where the people of each district and the Capitol
can elect their own representatives to be their voice in a
centralized government. Don't look so suspicious; it's
worked before."
"In books," Haymitch mutters.
"In history books," says Plutarch. "And if our ancestors
could do it, then we can, too."
Frankly, our ancestors don't seem much to brag about.
I mean, look at the state they left us in, with the wars and the
broken planet. Clearly, they didn't care about what would
happen to the people who came after them. But this
republic idea sounds like an improvement over our current
government.
"And if we lose?" I ask.
"If we lose?" Plutarch looks out at the clouds, and an
ironic smile twists his lips. "Then I would expect next year's
Hunger Games to be quite unforgettable. That reminds
me." He takes a vial from his vest, shakes a few deep violet
pills into his hand, and holds them out to us. "We named
them nightlock in your honor, Katniss. The rebels can't
afford for any of us to be captured now. But I promise, it will
be completely painless."
I take hold of a capsule, unsure of where to put it.
Plutarch taps a spot on my shoulder at the front of my left
sleeve. I examine it and find a tiny pocket that both secures
and conceals the pill. Even if my hands were tied, I could
lean my head forward and bite it free.
Cinna, it seems, has thought of everything.
7
The hovercraft makes a quick, spiral descent onto a
wide road on the outskirts of 8. Almost immediately, the
door opens, the stairs slide into place, and we're spit out
onto the asphalt. The moment the last person disembarks,
the equipment retracts. Then the craft lifts off and vanishes.
I'm left with a bodyguard made up of Gale, Boggs, and two
other soldiers. The TV crew consists of a pair of burly
Capitol cameramen with heavy mobile cameras encasing
their bodies like insect shells, a woman director named
Cressida who has a shaved head tattooed with green
vines, and her assistant, Messalla, a slim young man with
several sets of earrings. On careful observation, I see his
tongue has been pierced, too, and he wears a stud with a
silver ball the size of a marble.
Boggs hustles us off the road toward a row of
warehouses as a second hovercraft comes in for a landing.
This one brings crates of medical supplies and a crew of
six medics--I can tell by their distinctive white outfits. We all
follow Boggs down an alley that runs between two dull gray
warehouses. Only the occasional access ladder to the roof
interrupts the scarred metal walls. When we emerge onto
the street, it's like we've entered another world.
The wounded from this morning's bombing are being
brought in. On homemade stretchers, in wheelbarrows, on
carts, slung across shoulders, and clenched tight in arms.
Bleeding, limbless, unconscious. Propelled by desperate
people to a warehouse with a sloppily painted H above the
doorway. It's a scene from my old kitchen, where my mother
treated the dying, multiplied by ten, by fifty, by a hundred. I
had expected bombed-out buildings and instead find
myself confronted with broken human bodies.
This is where they plan on filming me? I turn to Boggs.
"This won't work," I say. "I won't be good here."
He must see the panic in my eyes, because he stops a
moment and places his hands on my shoulders. "You will.
Just let them see you. That will do more for them than any
doctor in the world could."
A woman directing the incoming patients catches sight
of us, does a sort of double take, and then strides over. Her
dark brown eyes are puffy with fatigue and she smells of
metal and sweat. A bandage around her throat needed
changing about three days ago. The strap of the automatic
weapon slung across her back digs into her neck and she
shifts her shoulder to reposition it. With a jerk of her thumb,
she orders the medics into the warehouse. They comply
without question.
"This is Commander Paylor of Eight," says Boggs.
"Commander, Soldier Katniss Everdeen."
She looks young to be a commander. Early thirties.
But there's an authoritative tone to her voice that makes you
feel her appointment wasn't arbitrary. Beside her, in my
spanking-new outfit, scrubbed and shiny, I feel like a
recently hatched chick, untested and only just learning how
to navigate the world.
"Yeah, I know who she is," says Paylor. "You're alive,
then. We weren't sure." Am I wrong or is there a note of
accusation in her voice?
"I'm still not sure myself," I answer.
"Been in recovery." Boggs taps his head. "Bad
concussion." He lowers his voice a moment. "Miscarriage.
But she insisted on coming by to see your wounded."
"Well, we've got plenty of those," says Paylor.
"You think this is a good idea?" says Gale, frowning at
the hospital. "Assembling your wounded like this?"
I don't. Any sort of contagious disease would spread
through this place like wildfire.
"I think it's slightly better than leaving them to die," says
Paylor.
"That's not what I meant," Gale tells her.
"Well, currently that's my other option. But if you come
up with a third and get Coin to back it, I'm all ears." Paylor
waves me toward the door. "Come on in, Mockingjay. And
by all means, bring your friends."
I glance back at the freak show that is my crew, steel
myself, and follow her into the hospital. Some sort of heavy,
industrial curtain hangs the length of the building, forming a
sizable corridor. Corpses lie side by side, curtain brushing
their heads, white cloths concealing their faces. "We've got
a mass grave started a few blocks west of here, but I can't
spare the manpower to move them yet," says Paylor. She
finds a slit in the curtain and opens it wide.
My fingers wrap around Gale's wrist. "Do not leave my
side," I say under my breath.
"I'm right here," he answers quietly.
I step through the curtain and my senses are
assaulted. My first impulse is to cover my nose to block out
the stench of soiled linen, putrefying flesh, and vomit, all
ripening in the heat of the warehouse. They've propped
open skylights that crisscross the high metal roof, but any
air that's managing to get in can't make a dent in the fog
below. The thin shafts of sunlight provide the only
illumination, and as my eyes adjust, I can make out row
upon row of wounded, in cots, on pallets, on the floor
because there are so many to claim the space. The drone
of black flies, the moaning of people in pain, and the sobs
of their attending loved ones have combined into a
wrenching chorus.
We have no real hospitals in the districts. We die at
home, which at the moment seems a far desirable
alternative to what lies in front of me. Then I remember that
many of these people probably lost their homes in the
bombings.
Sweat begins to run down my back, fill my palms. I
breathe through my mouth in an attempt to diminish the
smell. Black spots swim across my field of vision, and I
think there's a really good chance I could faint. But then I
catch sight of Paylor, who's watching me so closely, waiting
to see what I am made of, and if any of them have been
right to think they can count on me. So I let go of Gale and
force myself to move deeper into the warehouse, to walk
into the narrow strip between two rows of beds.
"Katniss?" a voice croaks out from my left, breaking
apart from the general din. "Katniss?" A hand reaches for
me out of the haze. I cling to it for support. Attached to the
hand is a young woman with an injured leg. Blood has
seeped through the heavy bandages, which are crawling
with flies. Her face reflects her pain, but something else,
too, something that seems completely incongruous with her
situation. "Is it really you?"
"Yeah, it's me," I get out.
Joy. That's the expression on her face. At the sound of
my voice, it brightens, erases the suffering momentarily.
"You're alive! We didn't know. People said you were,
but we didn't know!" she says excitedly.
"I got pretty banged up. But I got better," I say. "Just
like you will."
"I've got to tell my brother!" The woman struggles to sit
up and calls to someone a few beds down. "Eddy! Eddy!
She's here! It's Katniss Everdeen!"
A boy, probably about twelve years old, turns to us.
Bandages obscure half of his face. The side of his mouth I
can see opens as if to utter an exclamation. I go to him,
push his damp brown curls back from his forehead. Murmur
a greeting. He can't speak, but his one good eye fixes on
me with such intensity, as if he's trying to memorize every
detail of my face.
I hear my name rippling through the hot air, spreading
out into the hospital. "Katniss! Katniss Everdeen!" The
sounds of pain and grief begin to recede, to be replaced by
words of anticipation. From all sides, voices beckon me. I
begin to move, clasping the hands extended to me,
touching the sound parts of those unable to move their
limbs, saying hello, how are you, good to meet you. Nothing
of importance, no amazing words of inspiration. But it
doesn't matter. Boggs is right. It's the sight of me, alive, that
is the inspiration.
Hungry fingers devour me, wanting to feel my flesh. As
a stricken man clutches my face between his hands, I send
a silent thank-you to Dalton for suggesting I wash off the
makeup. How ridiculous, how perverse I would feel
presenting that painted Capitol mask to these people. The
damage, the fatigue, the imperfections. That's how they
recognize me, why I belong to them.
Despite his controversial interview with Caesar, many
ask about Peeta, assure me that they know he was
speaking under duress. I do my best to sound positive
about our future, but people are truly devastated when they
learn I've lost the baby. I want to come clean and tell one
weeping woman that it was all a hoax, a move in the game,
but to present Peeta as a liar now would not help his
image. Or mine. Or the cause.
I begin to fully understand the lengths to which people
have gone to protect me. What I mean to the rebels. My
ongoing struggle against the Capitol, which has so often felt
like a solitary journey, has not been undertaken alone. I
have had thousands upon thousands of people from the
districts at my side. I was their Mockingjay long before I
accepted the role.
A new sensation begins to germinate inside me. But it
takes until I am standing on a table, waving my final
goodbyes to the hoarse chanting of my name, to define it.
Power. I have a kind of power I never knew I possessed.
Snow knew it, as soon as I held out those berries. Plutarch
knew when he rescued me from the arena. And Coin knows
now. So much so that she must publicly remind her people
that I am not in control.
When we're outside again, I lean against the
warehouse, catching my breath, accepting the canteen of
water from Boggs. "You did great," he says.
Well, I didn't faint or throw up or run out screaming.
Mostly, I just rode the wave of emotion rolling through the
place.
"We got some nice stuff in there," says Cressida. I
look at the insect cameramen, perspiration pouring from
under their equipment. Messalla scribbling notes. I had
forgotten they were even filming me.
"I didn't do much, really," I say.
"You have to give yourself some credit for what you've
done in the past," says Boggs.
What I've done in the past? I think of the trail of
destruction in my wake--my knees weaken and I slide down
to a sitting position. "That's a mixed bag."
"Well, you're not perfect by a long shot. But times
being what they are, you'll have to do," says Boggs.
Gale squats down beside me, shaking his head. "I
can't believe you let all those people touch you. I kept
expecting you to make a break for the door."
"Shut up," I say with a laugh.
"Your mother's going to be very proud when she sees
the footage," he says.
"My mother won't even notice me. She'll be too
appalled by the conditions in there." I turn to Boggs and
ask, "Is it like this in every district?"
"Yes. Most are under attack. We're trying to get in aid
wherever we can, but it's not enough." He stops a minute,
distracted by something in his earpiece. I realize I haven't
heard Haymitch's voice once, and fiddle with mine,
wondering if it's broken. "We're to get to the airstrip.
Immediately," Boggs says, lifting me to my feet with one
hand. "There's a problem."
"What kind of problem?" asks Gale.
"Incoming bombers," says Boggs. He reaches behind
my neck and yanks Cinna's helmet up onto my head. "Let's
move!"
Unsure of what's going on, I take off running along the
front of the warehouse, heading for the alley that leads to
the airstrip. But I don't sense any immediate threat. The
sky's an empty, cloudless blue. The street's clear except for
the people hauling the wounded to the hospital. There's no
enemy, no alarm. Then the sirens begin to wail. Within
seconds, a low-flying V-shaped formation of Capitol
hoverplanes appears above us, and the bombs begin to
fall. I'm blown off my feet, into the front wall of the
warehouse. There's a searing pain just above the back of
my right knee. Something has struck my back as well, but
doesn't seem to have penetrated my vest. I try to get up, but
Boggs pushes me back down, shielding my body with his
own. The ground ripples under me as bomb after bomb
drops from the planes and detonates.
It's a horrifying sensation being pinned against the wall
as the bombs rain down. What was that expression my
father used for easy kills? Like shooting fish in a barrel.
We are the fish, the street the barrel.
"Katniss!" I'm startled by Haymitch's voice in my ear.
"What? Yes, what? I'm here!" I answer.
"Listen to me. We can't land during the bombing, but
it's imperative you're not spotted," he says.
"So they don't know I'm here?" I assumed, as usual, it
was my presence that brought on punishment.
"Intelligence thinks no. That this raid was already
scheduled," says Haymitch.
Now Plutarch's voice comes up, calm but forceful. The
voice of a Head Gamemaker used to calling the shots
under pressure. "There's a light blue warehouse three down
from you. It has a bunker in the far north corner. Can you get
there?"
"We'll do our best," says Boggs. Plutarch must be in
everyone's ear, because my bodyguards and crew are
getting up. My eye instinctively searches for Gale and sees
he's on his feet, apparently unharmed.
"You've got maybe forty-five seconds to the next
wave," says Plutarch.
I give a grunt of pain as my right leg takes the weight of
my body, but I keep moving. No time to examine the injury.
Better not to look now, anyway. Fortunately, I have on shoes
that Cinna designed. They grip the asphalt on contact and
spring free of it on release. I'd be hopeless in that ill-fitting
pair that 13 assigned to me. Boggs has the lead, but no
one else passes me. Instead they match my pace,
protecting my sides, my back. I force myself into a sprint as
the seconds tick away. We pass the second gray
warehouse and run along a dirt brown building. Up ahead, I
see a faded blue facade. Home of the bunker. We have just
reached another alley, need only to cross it to arrive at the
door, when the next wave of bombs begins. I instinctively
dive into the alley and roll toward the blue wall. This time it's
Gale who throws himself over me to provide one more layer
of protection from the bombing. It seems to go on longer
this time, but we are farther away.
I shift onto my side and find myself looking directly into
Gale's eyes. For an instant the world recedes and there is
just his flushed face, his pulse visible at his temple, his lips
slightly parted as he tries to catch his breath.
"You all right?" he asks, his words nearly drowned out
by an explosion.
"Yeah. I don't think they've seen me," I answer. "I mean,
they're not following us."
"No, they've targeted something else," says Gale.
"I know, but there's nothing back there but--" The
realization hits us at the same time.
"The hospital." Instantly, Gale's up and shouting to the
others. "They're targeting the hospital!"
"Not your problem," says Plutarch firmly. "Get to the
bunker."
"But there's nothing there but the wounded!" I say.
"Katniss." I hear the warning note in Haymitch's voice
and know what's coming. "Don't you even think about--!" I
yank the earpiece free and let it hang from its wire. With
that distraction gone, I hear another sound. Machine gun
fire coming from the roof of the dirt brown warehouse
across the alley. Someone is returning fire. Before anyone
can stop me, I make a dash for an access ladder and begin
to scale it. Climbing. One of the things I do best.
"Don't stop!" I hear Gale say behind me. Then there's
the sound of his boot on someone's face. If it belongs to
Boggs, Gale's going to pay for it dearly later on. I make the
roof and drag myself onto the tar. I stop long enough to pull
Gale up beside me, and then we take off for the row of
machine gun nests on the street side of the warehouse.
Each looks to be manned by a few rebels. We skid into a
nest with a pair of soldiers, hunching down behind the
barrier.
"Boggs know you're up here?" To my left I see Paylor
behind one of the guns, looking at us quizzically.
I try to be evasive without flat-out lying. "He knows
where we are, all right."
Paylor laughs. "I bet he does. You been trained in
these?" She slaps the stock of her gun.
"I have. In Thirteen," says Gale. "But I'd rather use my
own weapons."
"Yes, we've got our bows." I hold mine up, then realize
how decorative it must seem. "It's more deadly than it
looks."
"It would have to be," says Paylor. "All right. We expect
at least three more waves. They have to drop their sight
shields before they release the bombs. That's our chance.
Stay low!" I position myself to shoot from one knee.
"Better start with fire," says Gale.
I nod and pull an arrow from my right sheath. If we miss
our targets, these arrows will land somewhere--probably
the warehouses across the street. A fire can be put out, but
the damage an explosive can do may be irreparable.
Suddenly, they appear in the sky, two blocks down,
maybe a hundred yards above us. Seven small bombers in
a V formation. "Geese!" I yell at Gale. He'll know exactly
what I mean. During migration season, when we hunt fowl,
we've developed a system of dividing the birds so we don't
both target the same ones. I get the far side of the V, Gale
takes the near, and we alternate shots at the front bird.
There's no time for further discussion. I estimate the lead
time on the hoverplanes and let my arrow fly. I catch the
inside wing of one, causing it to burst into flames. Gale just
misses the point plane. A fire blooms on an empty
warehouse roof across from us. He swears under his
breath.
The hoverplane I hit swerves out of formation, but still
releases its bombs. It doesn't disappear, though. Neither
does one other I assume was hit by gunfire. The damage
must prevent the sight shield from reactivating.
"Good shot," says Gale.
"I wasn't even aiming for that one," I mutter. I'd set my
sights on the plane in front of it. "They're faster than we
think."
"Positions!" Paylor shouts. The next wave of
hoverplanes is appearing already.
"Fire's no good," Gale says. I nod and we both load
explosive-tipped arrows. Those warehouses across the
way look deserted anyway.
As the planes sweep silently in, I make another
decision. "I'm standing!" I shout to Gale, and rise to my feet.
This is the position I get the best accuracy from. I lead
earlier and score a direct hit on the point plane, blasting a
hole in its belly. Gale blows the tail off a second. It flips and
crashes into the street, setting off a series of explosions as
its cargo goes off.
Without warning, a third V formation unveils. This time,
Gale squarely hits the point plane. I take the wing off the
second bomber, causing it to spin into the one behind it.
Together they collide into the roof of the warehouse across
from the hospital. A fourth goes down from gunfire.
"All right, that's it," Paylor says.
Flames and heavy black smoke from the wreckage
obscure our view. "Did they hit the hospital?"
"Must have," she says grimly.
As I hurry toward the ladders at the far end of the
warehouse, the sight of Messalla and one of the insects
emerging from behind an air duct surprises me. I thought
they'd still be hunkered down in the alley.
"They're growing on me," says Gale.
I scramble down a ladder. When my feet hit the ground,
I find a bodyguard, Cressida, and the other insect waiting. I
expect resistance, but Cressida just waves me toward the
hospital. She's yelling, "I don't care, Plutarch! Just give me
five more minutes!" Not one to question a free pass, I take
off into the street.
"Oh, no," I whisper as I catch sight of the hospital. What
used to be the hospital. I move past the wounded, past the
burning plane wrecks, fixated on the disaster ahead of me.
People screaming, running about frantically, but unable to
help. The bombs have collapsed the hospital roof and set
the building on fire, effectively trapping the patients within.
A group of rescuers has assembled, trying to clear a path
to the inside. But I already know what they will find. If the
crushing debris and the flames didn't get them, the smoke
did.
Gale's at my shoulder. The fact that he does nothing
only confirms my suspicions. Miners don't abandon an
accident until it's hopeless.
"Come on, Katniss. Haymitch says they can get a
hovercraft in for us now," he tells me. But I can't seem to
move.
"Why would they do that? Why would they target
people who were already dying?" I ask him.
"Scare others off. Prevent the wounded from seeking
help," says Gale. "Those people you met, they were
expendable. To Snow, anyway. If the Capitol wins, what will
it do with a bunch of damaged slaves?"
I remember all those years in the woods, listening to
Gale rant against the Capitol. Me, not paying close
attention. Wondering why he even bothered to dissect its
motives. Why thinking like our enemy would ever matter.
Clearly, it could have mattered today. When Gale
questioned the existence of the hospital, he was not
thinking of disease, but this. Because he never
underestimates the cruelty of those we face.
I slowly turn my back to the hospital and find Cressida,
flanked by the insects, standing a couple of yards in front of
me. Her manner's unrattled. Cool even. "Katniss," she says,
"President Snow just had them air the bombing live. Then
he made an appearance to say that this was his way of
sending a message to the rebels. What about you? Would
you like to tell the rebels anything?"
"Yes," I whisper. The red blinking light on one of the
cameras catches my eye. I know I'm being recorded. "Yes,"
I say more forcefully. Everyone is drawing away from me--
Gale, Cressida, the insects--giving me the stage. But I stay
focused on the red light. "I want to tell the rebels that I am
alive. That I'm right here in District Eight, where the Capitol
has just bombed a hospital full of unarmed men, women,
and children. There will be no survivors." The shock I've
been feeling begins to give way to fury. "I want to tell people
that if you think for one second the Capitol will treat us fairly
if there's a cease-fire, you're deluding yourself. Because
you know who they are and what they do." My hands go out
automatically, as if to indicate the whole horror around me.
"This is what they do! And we must fight back!"
I'm moving in toward the camera now, carried forward
by my rage. "President Snow says he's sending us a
message? Well, I have one for him. You can torture us and
bomb us and burn our districts to the ground, but do you
see that?" One of the cameras follows as I point to the
planes burning on the roof of the warehouse across from
us. The Capitol seal on a wing glows clearly through the
flames. "Fire is catching!" I am shouting now, determined
that he will not miss a word. "And if we burn, you burn with
us!"
My last words hang in the air. I feel suspended in time.
Held aloft in a cloud of heat that generates not from my
surroundings, but from my own being.
"Cut!" Cressida's voice snaps me back to reality,
extinguishes me. She gives me a nod of approval. "That's a
wrap."
8
Boggs appears and gets a firm lock on my arm, but I'm
not planning on running now. I look over at the hospital--just
in time to see the rest of the structure give way--and the
fight goes out of me. All those people, the hundreds of
wounded, the relatives, the medics from 13, are no more. I
turn back to Boggs, see the swelling on his face left by
Gale's boot. I'm no expert, but I'm pretty sure his nose is
broken. His voice is more resigned than angry, though.
"Back to the landing strip." I obediently take a step forward
and wince as I become aware of the pain behind my right
knee. The adrenaline rush that overrode the sensation has
passed and my body parts join in a chorus of complaints.
I'm banged up and bloody and someone seems to be
hammering on my left temple from inside my skull. Boggs
quickly examines my face, then scoops me up and jogs for
the runway. Halfway there, I puke on his bulletproof vest. It's
hard to tell because he's short of breath, but I think he sighs.
A small hovercraft, different from the one that
transported us here, waits on the runway. The second my
team's on board, we take off. No comfy seats and windows
this time. We seem to be in some sort of cargo craft.
Boggs does emergency first aid on people to hold them
until we get back to 13. I want to take off my vest, since I got
a fair amount of vomit on it as well, but it's too cold to think
about it. I lie on the floor with my head in Gale's lap. The last
thing I remember is Boggs spreading a couple of burlap
sacks over me.
When I wake up, I'm warm and patched up in my old
bed in the hospital. My mother's there, checking my vital
signs. "How do you feel?"
"A little beat-up, but all right," I say.
"No one even told us you were going until you were
gone," she says.
I feel a pang of guilt. When your family's had to send
you off twice to the Hunger Games, this isn't the kind of
detail you should overlook. "I'm sorry. They weren't
expecting the attack. I was just supposed to be visiting the
patients," I explain. "Next time, I'll have them clear it with
you."
"Katniss, no one clears anything with me," she says.
It's true. Even I don't. Not since my father died. Why
pretend? "Well, I'll have them...notify you anyway."
On the bedside table is a piece of shrapnel they
removed from my leg. The doctors are more concerned
with the damage my brain might have suffered from the
explosions, since my concussion hadn't fully healed to
begin with. But I don't have double vision or anything and I
can think clearly enough. I've slept right through the late
afternoon and night, and I'm starving. My breakfast is
disappointingly small. Just a few cubes of bread soaking in
warm milk. I've been called down to an early morning
meeting at Command. I start to get up and then realize they
plan to roll my hospital bed directly there. I want to walk, but
that's out, so I negotiate my way into a wheelchair. I feel
fine, really. Except for my head, and my leg, and the
soreness from the bruises, and the nausea that hit a couple
minutes after I ate. Maybe the wheelchair's a good idea.
As they wheel me down, I begin to get uneasy about
what I will face. Gale and I directly disobeyed orders
yesterday, and Boggs has the injury to prove it. Surely,
there will be repercussions, but will they go so far as Coin
annulling our agreement for the victors' immunity? Have I
stripped Peeta of what little protection I could give him?
When I get to Command, the only ones who've arrived
are Cressida, Messalla, and the insects. Messalla beams
and says, "There's our little star!" and the others are smiling
so genuinely that I can't help but smile in return. They
impressed me in 8, following me onto the roof during the
bombing, making Plutarch back off so they could get the
footage they wanted. They more than do their work, they
take pride in it. Like Cinna.
I have a strange thought that if we were in the arena
together, I would pick them as allies. Cressida, Messalla,
and--and--"I have to stop calling you 'the insects,'" I blurt out
to the cameramen. I explain how I didn't know their names,
but their suits suggested the shelled creatures. The
comparison doesn't seem to bother them. Even without the
camera shells, they strongly resemble each other. Same
sandy hair, red beards, and blue eyes. The one with closebitten
nails introduces himself as Castor and the other,
who's his brother, as Pollux. I wait for Pollux to say hello, but
he just nods. At first I think he's shy or a man of few words.
But something tugs on me--the position of his lips, the extra
effort he takes to swallow--and I know before Castor tells
me. Pollux is an Avox. They have cut out his tongue and he
will never speak again. And I no longer have to wonder
what made him risk everything to help bring down the
Capitol.
As the room fills, I brace myself for a less congenial
reception. But the only people who register any kind of
negativity are Haymitch, who's always out of sorts, and a
sour-faced Fulvia Cardew. Boggs wears a flesh-colored
plastic mask from his upper lip to his brow--I was right
about the broken nose--so his expression's hard to read.
Coin and Gale are in the midst of some exchange that
seems positively chummy.
When Gale slides into the seat next to my wheelchair, I
say, "Making new friends?"
His eyes flicker to the president and back. "Well, one
of us has to be accessible." He touches my temple gently.
"How do you feel?"
They must have served stewed garlic and squash for
the breakfast vegetable. The more people who gather, the
stronger the fumes are. My stomach turns and the lights
suddenly seem too bright. "Kind of rocky," I say. "How are
you?"
"Fine. They dug out a couple of pieces of shrapnel. No
big deal," he says.
Coin calls the meeting to order. "Our Airtime Assault
has officially launched. For any of you who missed
yesterday's twenty-hundred broadcast of our first propo--or
the seventeen reruns Beetee has managed to air since--we
will begin by replaying it." Replaying it? So they not only got
usable footage, they've already slapped together a propo
and aired it repeatedly. My palms grow moist in
anticipation of seeing myself on television. What if I'm still
awful? What if I'm as stiff and pointless as I was in the
studio and they've just given up on getting anything better?
Individual screens slide up from the table, the lights dim
slightly, and a hush falls over the room.
At first, my screen is black. Then a tiny spark flickers in
the center. It blossoms, spreads, silently eating up the
blackness until the entire frame is ablaze with a fire so real
and intense, I imagine I feel the heat emanating from it. The
image of my mockingjay pin emerges, glowing red-gold.
The deep, resonant voice that haunts my dreams begins to
speak. Claudius Templesmith, the official announcer of the
Hunger Games, says, "Katniss Everdeen, the girl who was
on fire, burns on."
Suddenly, there I am, replacing the mockingjay,
standing before the real flames and smoke of District 8. "I
want to tell the rebels that I am alive. That I'm right here in
District Eight, where the Capitol has just bombed a
hospital full of unarmed men, women, and children. There
will be no survivors." Cut to the hospital collapsing in on
itself, the desperation of the onlookers as I continue in
voice-over. "I want to tell people that if you think for one
second the Capitol will treat us fairly if there's a cease-fire,
you're deluding yourself. Because you know who they are
and what they do." Back to me now, my hands lifting up to
indicate the outrage around me. "This is what they do! And
we must fight back!" Now comes a truly fantastic montage
of the battle. The initial bombs falling, us running, being
blown to the ground--a close-up of my wound, which looks
good and bloody--scaling the roof, diving into the nests,
and then some amazing shots of the rebels, Gale, and
mostly me, me, me knocking those planes out of the sky.
Smash-cut back to me moving in on the camera.
"President Snow says he's sending us a message? Well, I
have one for him. You can torture us and bomb us and
burn our districts to the ground, but do you see that?"
We're with the camera, tracking to the planes burning on
the roof of the warehouse. Tight on the Capitol seal on a
wing, which melts back into the image of my face, shouting
at the president. "Fire is catching! And if we burn, you burn
with us!" Flames engulf the screen again. Superimposed
on them in black, solid letters are the words:
IF WE BURN YOU
BURN WITH US
The words catch fire and the whole screen burns to
blackness.
There's a moment of silent relish, then applause
followed by demands to see it again. Coin indulgently hits
the replay button, and this time, since I know what will
happen, I try to pretend that I'm watching this on my
television at home in the Seam. An anti-Capitol statement.
There's never been anything like it on television. Not in my
lifetime, anyway.
By the time the screen burns to black a second time, I
need to know more. "Did it play all over Panem? Did they
see it in the Capitol?"
"Not in the Capitol," says Plutarch. "We couldn't
override their system, although Beetee's working on it. But
in all the districts. We even got it on in Two, which may be
more valuable than the Capitol at this point in the game."
"Is Claudius Templesmith with us?" I ask.
This gives Plutarch a good laugh. "Only his voice. But
that's ours for the taking. We didn't even have to do any
special editing. He said that actual line in your first Games."
He slaps his hand on the table. "What say we give another
round of applause to Cressida, her amazing team, and, of
course, our on-camera talent!"
I clap, too, until I realize I'm the on-camera talent and
maybe it's obnoxious that I'm applauding for myself, but no
one's paying attention. I can't help noticing the strain on
Fulvia's face, though. I think how hard this must be for her,
watching Haymitch's idea succeed under Cressida's
direction, when Fulvia's studio approach was such a flop.
Coin seems to have reached the end of her tolerance
for self-congratulation. "Yes, well deserved. The result is
more than we had hoped for. But I do have to question the
wide margin of risk that you were willing to operate within. I
know the raid was unforeseen. However, given the
circumstances, I think we should discuss the decision to
send Katniss into actual combat."
The decision? To send me into combat? Then she
doesn't know that I flagrantly disregarded orders, ripped out
my earpiece, and gave my bodyguards the slip? What else
have they kept from her?
"It was a tough call," says Plutarch, furrowing his brow.
"But the general consensus was that we weren't going to
get anything worth using if we locked her in a bunker
somewhere every time a gun went off."
"And you're all right with that?" asks the president.
Gale has to kick me under the table before I realize
that she's talking to me. "Oh! Yeah, I'm completely all right
with that. It felt good. Doing something for a change."
"Well, let's be just a little more judicious with her
exposure. Especially now that the Capitol knows what she
can do," says Coin. There's a rumble of assent from around
the table.
No one has ratted out Gale and me. Not Plutarch,
whose authority we ignored. Not Boggs with his broken
nose. Not the insects we led into fire. Not Haymitch--no,
wait a minute. Haymitch is giving me a deadly smile and
saying sweetly, "Yeah, we wouldn't want to lose our little
Mockingjay when she's finally begun to sing." I make a note
to myself not to end up alone in a room with him, because
he's clearly having vengeful thoughts over that stupid
earpiece.
"So, what else do you have planned?" asks the
president.
Plutarch nods to Cressida, who consults a clipboard.
"We have some terrific footage of Katniss at the hospital in
Eight. There should be another propo in that with the theme
'Because you know who they are and what they do.' We'll
focus on Katniss interacting with the patients, particularly
the children, the bombing of the hospital, and the wreckage.
Messalla's cutting that together. We're also thinking about a
Mockingjay piece. Highlight some of Katniss's best
moments intercut with scenes of rebel uprisings and war
footage. We call that one 'Fire is catching.' And then Fulvia
came up with a really brilliant idea."
Fulvia's mouthful-of-sour-grapes expression is startled
right off her face, but she recovers. "Well, I don't know how
brilliant it is, but I was thinking we could do a series of
propos called We Remember. In each one, we would
feature one of the dead tributes. Little Rue from Eleven or
old Mags from Four. The idea being that we could target
each district with a very personal piece."
