      of them _were_ in—an “excuse for a ride” must be his saving
      grace.

      “Only Miss Holly is in, sir.”

      “Oh! thanks. Might I take my horse round to the stables? And
      would you say—her cousin, Mr. Val Dartie.”

      When he returned she was in the hall, very flushed and shy. She
      led him to the far end, and they sat down on a wide window-seat.

      “I’ve been awfully anxious,” said Val in a low voice. “What’s the
      matter?”

      “Jolly knows about our riding.”

      “Is he in?”

      “No; but I expect he will be soon.”

      “Then!” cried Val, and diving forward, he seized her hand. She
      tried to withdraw it, failed, gave up the attempt, and looked at
      him wistfully.

      “First of all,” he said, “I want to tell you something about my
      family. My Dad, you know, isn’t altogether—I mean, he’s left my
      mother and they’re trying to divorce him; so they’ve ordered him
      to come back, you see. You’ll see that in the paper to-morrow.”

      Her eyes deepened in colour and fearful interest; her hand
      squeezed his. But the gambler in Val was roused now, and he
      hurried on:

      “Of course there’s nothing very much at present, but there will
      be, I expect, before it’s over; divorce suits are beastly, you
      know. I wanted to tell you, because—because—you ought to
      know—if—” and he began to stammer, gazing at her troubled eyes,
      “if—if you’re going to be a darling and love me, Holly. I love
      you—ever so; and I want to be engaged.” He had done it in a
      manner so inadequate that he could have punched his own head; and
      dropping on his knees, he tried to get nearer to that soft,
      troubled face. “You do love me—don’t you? If you don’t I....”
      There was a moment of silence and suspense, so awful that he
      could hear the sound of a mowing-machine far out on the lawn
      pretending there was grass to cut. Then she swayed forward; her
      free hand touched his hair, and he gasped: “Oh, Holly!”

      Her answer was very soft: “Oh, Val!”

      He had dreamed of this moment, but always in an imperative mood,
      as the masterful young lover, and now he felt humble, touched,
      trembly. He was afraid to stir off his knees lest he should break
      the spell; lest, if he did, she should shrink and deny her own
      surrender—so tremulous was she in his grasp, with her eyelids
      closed and his lips nearing them. Her eyes opened, seemed to swim
      a little; he pressed his lips to hers. Suddenly he sprang up;
      there had been footsteps, a sort of startled grunt. He looked
      round. No one! But the long curtains which barred off the outer
      hall were quivering.

      “My God! Who was that?”

      Holly too was on her feet.

      “Jolly, I expect,” she whispered.

      Val clenched fists and resolution.

      “All right!” he said, “I don’t care a bit now we’re engaged,” and
      striding towards the curtains, he drew them aside. There at the
      fireplace in the hall stood Jolly, with his back elaborately
      turned. Val went forward. Jolly faced round on him.

      “I beg your pardon for hearing,” he said.

      With the best intentions in the world, Val could not help
      admiring him at that moment; his face was clear, his voice quiet,
      he looked somehow distinguished, as if acting up to principle.

      “Well!” Val said abruptly, “it’s nothing to you.”

      “Oh!” said Jolly; “you come this way,” and he crossed the hall.
      Val followed. At the study door he felt a touch on his arm;
      Holly’s voice said:

      “I’m coming too.”

      “No,” said Jolly.

      “Yes,” said Holly.

      Jolly opened the door, and they all three went in. Once in the
      little room, they stood in a sort of triangle on three corners of
      the worn Turkey carpet; awkwardly upright, not looking at each
      other, quite incapable of seeing any humour in the situation.

      Val broke the silence.

      “Holly and I are engaged.”

      Jolly stepped back and leaned against the lintel of the window.

      “This is our house,” he said; “I’m not going to insult you in it.
      But my father’s away. I’m in charge of my sister. You’ve taken
      advantage of me.

      “I didn’t mean to,” said Val hotly.

      “I think you did,” said Jolly. “If you hadn’t meant to, you’d
      have spoken to me, or waited for my father to come back.”

      “There were reasons,” said Val.

      “What reasons?”

      “About my family—I’ve just told her. I wanted her to know before
      things happen.”

      Jolly suddenly became less distinguished.

      “You’re kids,” he said, “and you know you are.

      “I am _not_ a kid,” said Val.

      “You are—you’re not twenty.”

      “Well, what are you?”

      “I _am_ twenty,” said Jolly.

      “Only just; anyway, I’m as good a man as you.”

      Jolly’s face crimsoned, then clouded. Some struggle was evidently
      taking place in him; and Val and Holly stared at him, so clearly
      was that struggle marked; they could even hear him breathing.
      Then his face cleared up and became oddly resolute.

      “We’ll see that,” he said. “I dare you to do what I’m going to
      do.”

      “Dare me?”

      Jolly smiled. “Yes,” he said, “dare you; and I know very well you
      won’t.”

      A stab of misgiving shot through Val; this was riding very blind.

      “I haven’t forgotten that you’re a fire-eater,” said Jolly
      slowly, “and I think that’s about all you are; or that you called
      me a pro-Boer.”

      Val heard a gasp above the sound of his own hard breathing, and
      saw Holly’s face poked a little forward, very pale, with big
      eyes.

      “Yes,” went on Jolly with a sort of smile, “we shall soon see.
      I’m going to join the Imperial Yeomanry, and I dare you to do the
      same, Mr. Val Dartie.”

      Val’s head jerked on its stem. It was like a blow between the
      eyes, so utterly unthought of, so extreme and ugly in the midst
      of his dreaming; and he looked at Holly with eyes grown suddenly,
      touchingly haggard.

      “Sit down!” said Jolly. “Take your time! Think it over well.” And
      he himself sat down on the arm of his grandfather’s chair.

      Val did not sit down; he stood with hands thrust deep into his
      breeches’ pockets—hands clenched and quivering. The full
      awfulness of this decision one way or the other knocked at his
      mind with double knocks as of an angry postman. If he did not
      take that “dare” he was disgraced in Holly’s eyes, and in the
      eyes of that young enemy, her brute of a brother. Yet if he took
      it, ah! then all would vanish—her face, her eyes, her hair, her
      kisses just begun!

      “Take your time,” said Jolly again; “I don’t want to be unfair.”

      And they both looked at Holly. She had recoiled against the
      bookshelves reaching to the ceiling; her dark head leaned against
      Gibbon’s _Roman Empire_, her eyes in a sort of soft grey agony
      were fixed on Val. And he, who had not much gift of insight, had
      suddenly a gleam of vision. She would be proud of her
      brother—that enemy! She would be ashamed of him! His hands came
      out of his pockets as if lifted by a spring.

      “All right!” he said. “Done!”

      Holly’s face—oh! it was queer! He saw her flush, start forward.
      He had done the right thing—her face was shining with wistful
      admiration. Jolly stood up and made a little bow as who should
      say: “You’ve passed.”

      “To-morrow, then,” he said, “we’ll go together.”

      Recovering from the impetus which had carried him to that
      decision, Val looked at him maliciously from under his lashes.
      “All right,” he thought, “one to you. I shall have to join—but
      I’ll get back on you somehow.” And he said with dignity: “I shall
      be ready.”

      “We’ll meet at the main Recruiting Office, then,” said Jolly, “at
      twelve o’clock.” And, opening the window, he went out on to the
      terrace, conforming to the creed which had made him retire when
      he surprised them in the hall.

      The confusion in the mind of Val thus left alone with her for
      whom he had paid this sudden price was extreme. The mood of
      “showing-off” was still, however, uppermost. One must do the
      wretched thing with an air.

      “We shall get plenty of riding and shooting, anyway,” he said;
      “that’s one comfort.” And it gave him a sort of grim pleasure to
      hear the sigh which seemed to come from the bottom of her heart.

      “Oh! the war’ll soon be over,” he said; “perhaps we shan’t even
      have to go out. I don’t care, except for you.” He would be out of
      the way of that beastly divorce. It was an ill-wind! He felt her
      warm hand slip into his. Jolly thought he had stopped their
      loving each other, did he? He held her tightly round the waist,
      looking at her softly through his lashes, smiling to cheer her
      up, promising to come down and see her soon, feeling somehow six
      inches taller and much more in command of her than he had ever
      dared feel before. Many times he kissed her before he mounted and
      rode back to town. So, swiftly, on the least provocation, does
      the possessive instinct flourish and grow.




      CHAPTER IX DINNER AT JAMES’


      Dinner parties were not now given at James’ in Park Lane—to every
      house the moment comes when Master or Mistress is no longer “up
      to it”. no more can nine courses be served to twenty mouths above
      twenty fine white expanses; nor does the household cat any longer
      wonder why she is suddenly shut up.

      So with something like excitement Emily—who at seventy would
      still have liked a little feast and fashion now and then—ordered
      dinner for six instead of two, herself wrote a number of foreign
      words on cards, and arranged the flowers—mimosa from the Riviera,
      and white Roman hyacinths not from Rome. There would only be, of
      course, James and herself, Soames, Winifred, Val, and Imogen—but
      she liked to pretend a little and dally in imagination with the
      glory of the past. She so dressed herself that James remarked:

      “What are you putting on that thing for? You’ll catch cold.”

      But Emily knew that the necks of women are protected by love of
      shining, unto fourscore years, and she only answered:

      “Let me put you on one of those dickies I got you, James; then
      you’ll only have to change your trousers, and put on your velvet
      coat, and there you’ll be. Val likes you to look nice.”

      “Dicky!” said James. “You’re always wasting your money on
      something.”

      But he suffered the change to be made till his neck also shone,
      murmuring vaguely:

      “He’s an extravagant chap, I’m afraid.”

      A little brighter in the eye, with rather more colour than usual
      in his cheeks, he took his seat in the drawing-room to wait for
      the sound of the front-door bell.

      “I’ve made it a proper dinner party,” Emily said comfortably; “I
      thought it would be good practice for Imogen—she must get used to
      it now she’s coming out.”

      James uttered an indeterminate sound, thinking of Imogen as she
      used to climb about his knee or pull Christmas crackers with him.

      “She’ll be pretty,” he muttered, “I shouldn’t wonder.”

      “She _is_ pretty,” said Emily; “she ought to make a good match.”

      “There you go,” murmured James; “she’d much better stay at home
      and look after her mother.” A second Dartie carrying off his
      pretty granddaughter would finish him! He had never quite
      forgiven Emily for having been as much taken in by Montague
      Dartie as he himself had been.

      “Where’s Warmson?” he said suddenly. “I should like a glass of
      Madeira to-night.”

      “There’s champagne, James.”

      James shook his head. “No body,” he said; “I can’t get any good
      out of it.”

      Emily reached forward on her side of the fire and rang the bell.

      “Your master would like a bottle of Madeira opened, Warmson.”

      “No, no!” said James, the tips of his ears quivering with
      vehemence, and his eyes fixed on an object seen by him alone.
      “Look here, Warmson, you go to the inner cellar, and on the
      middle shelf of the end bin on the left you’ll see seven bottles;
      take the one in the centre, and don’t shake it. It’s the last of
      the Madeira I had from Mr. Jolyon when we came in here—never been
      moved; it ought to be in prime condition still; but I don’t know,
      I can’t tell.”

      “Very good, sir,” responded the withdrawing Warmson.

      “I was keeping it for our golden wedding,” said James suddenly,
      “but I shan’t live three years at my age.”

      “Nonsense, James,” said Emily, “don’t talk like that.”

      “I ought to have got it up myself,” murmured James, “he’ll shake
      it as likely as not.” And he sank into silent recollection of
      long moments among the open gas-jets, the cobwebs and the good
      smell of wine-soaked corks, which had been appetiser to so many
      feasts. In the wine from that cellar was written the history of
      the forty odd years since he had come to the Park Lane house with
      his young bride, and of the many generations of friends and
      acquaintances who had passed into the unknown; its depleted bins
      preserved the record of family festivity—all the marriages,
      births, deaths of his kith and kin. And when he was gone there it
      would be, and he didn’t know what would become of it. It’d be
      drunk or spoiled, he shouldn’t wonder!

      From that deep reverie the entrance of his son dragged him,
      followed very soon by that of Winifred and her two eldest.

      They went down arm-in-arm—James with Imogen, the debutante,
      because his pretty grandchild cheered him; Soames with Winifred;
      Emily with Val, whose eyes lighting on the oysters brightened.
      This was to be a proper full “blowout” with “fizz” and port! And
      he felt in need of it, after what he had done that day, as yet
      undivulged. After the first glass or two it became pleasant to
      have this bombshell up his sleeve, this piece of sensational
      patriotism, or example, rather, of personal daring, to
      display—for his pleasure in what he had done for his Queen and
      Country was so far entirely personal. He was now a “blood,”
      indissolubly connected with guns and horses; he had a right to
      swagger—not, of course, that he was going to. He should just
      announce it quietly, when there was a pause. And, glancing down
      the menu, he determined on “Bombe aux fraises” as the proper
      moment; there would be a certain solemnity while they were eating
      that. Once or twice before they reached that rosy summit of the
      dinner he was attacked by remembrance that his grandfather was
      never told anything! Still, the old boy was drinking Madeira, and
      looking jolly fit! Besides, he ought to be pleased at this
      set-off to the disgrace of the divorce. The sight of his uncle
      opposite, too, was a sharp incentive. He was so far from being a
      sportsman that it would be worth a lot to see his face. Besides,
      better to tell his mother in this way than privately, which might
      upset them both! He was sorry for her, but after all one couldn’t
      be expected to feel much for others when one had to part from
      Holly.

      His grandfather’s voice travelled to him thinly. “Val, try a
      little of the Madeira with your ice. You won’t get that up at
      college.”

      Val watched the slow liquid filling his glass, the essential oil
      of the old wine glazing the surface; inhaled its aroma, and
      thought: “Now for it!” It was a rich moment. He sipped, and a
      gentle glow spread in his veins, already heated. With a rapid
      look round, he said, “I joined the Imperial Yeomanry to-day,
      Granny,” and emptied his glass as though drinking the health of
      his own act.

      “What!” It was his mother’s desolate little word.

      “Young Jolly Forsyte and I went down there together.”

      “You didn’t sign?” from Uncle Soames.

      “Rather! We go into camp on Monday.”

      “I _say!_” cried Imogen.

      All looked at James. He was leaning forward with his hand behind
      his ear.

      “What’s that?” he said. “What’s he saying? I can’t hear.”

      Emily reached forward to pat Val’s hand.

      “It’s only that Val has joined the Yeomanry, James; it’s very
      nice for him. He’ll look his best in uniform.”

      “Joined the—rubbish!” came from James, tremulously loud. “You
      can’t see two yards before your nose. He—he’ll have to go out
      there. Why! he’ll be fighting before he knows where he is.”

      Val saw Imogen’s eyes admiring him, and his mother still and
      fashionable with her handkerchief before her lips.

      Suddenly his uncle spoke.

      “You’re under age.”

      “I thought of that,” smiled Val; “I gave my age as twenty-one.”

      He heard his grandmother’s admiring, “Well, Val, that was plucky
      of you;” was conscious of Warmson deferentially filling his
      champagne glass; and of his grandfather’s voice moaning: “_I_
      don’t know what’ll become of you if you go on like this.”

      Imogen was patting his shoulder, his uncle looking at him
      sidelong; only his mother sat unmoving, till, affected by her
      stillness, Val said:

      “It’s all right, you know; we shall soon have them on the run. I
      only hope I shall come in for something.”

      He felt elated, sorry, tremendously important all at once. This
      would show Uncle Soames, and all the Forsytes, how to be
      sportsmen. He had certainly done something heroic and exceptional
      in giving his age as twenty-one.

      Emily’s voice brought him back to earth.

      “You mustn’t have a second glass, James. Warmson!”

      “Won’t they be astonished at Timothy’s!” burst out Imogen. “I’d
      give anything to see their faces. Do you have a sword, Val, or
      only a popgun?”

      “What made you?”

      His uncle’s voice produced a slight chill in the pit of Val’s
      stomach. Made him? How answer that? He was grateful for his
      grandmother’s comfortable:

      “Well, I think it’s very plucky of Val. I’m sure he’ll make a
      splendid soldier; he’s just the figure for it. We shall all be
      proud of him.”

      “What had young Jolly Forsyte to do with it? Why did you go
      together?” pursued Soames, uncannily relentless. “I thought you
      weren’t friendly with him?”

      “I’m not,” mumbled Val, “but I wasn’t going to be beaten by
      _him_.” He saw his uncle look at him quite differently, as if
      approving. His grandfather was nodding too, his grandmother
      tossing her head. They all approved of his not being beaten by
      that cousin of his. There must be a reason! Val was dimly
      conscious of some disturbing point outside his range of vision;
      as it might be, the unlocated centre of a cyclone. And, staring
      at his uncle’s face, he had a quite unaccountable vision of a
      woman with dark eyes, gold hair, and a white neck, who smelt
      nice, and had pretty silken clothes which he had liked feeling
      when he was quite small. By Jove, yes! Aunt Irene! She used to
      kiss him, and he had bitten her arm once, playfully, because he
      liked it—so soft. His grandfather was speaking:

      “What’s his father doing?”

      “He’s away in Paris,” Val said, staring at the very queer
      expression on his uncle’s face, like—like that of a snarling dog.

      “Artists!” said James. The word coming from the very bottom of
      his soul, broke up the dinner.

      Opposite his mother in the cab going home, Val tasted the
      after-fruits of heroism, like medlars over-ripe.

      She only said, indeed, that he must go to his tailor’s at once
      and have his uniform properly made, and not just put up with what
      they gave him. But he could feel that she was very much upset. It
      was on his lips to console her with the spoken thought that he
      would be out of the way of that beastly divorce, but the presence
      of Imogen, and the knowledge that his mother would _not_ be out
      of the way, restrained him. He felt aggrieved that she did not
      seem more proud of him. When Imogen had gone to bed, he risked
      the emotional.

      “I’m awfully sorry to have to leave you, Mother.”

      “Well, I must make the best of it. We must try and get you a
      commission as soon as we can; then you won’t have to rough it so.
      Do you know any drill, Val?”

      “Not a scrap.”

      “I hope they won’t worry you much. I must take you about to get
      the things to-morrow. Good-night; kiss me.”

      With that kiss, soft and hot, between his eyes, and those words,
      “I hope they won’t worry you much,” in his ears, he sat down to a
      cigarette, before a dying fire. The heat was out of him—the glow
      of cutting a dash. It was all a damned heart-aching bore. “I’ll
      be even with that chap Jolly,” he thought, trailing up the
      stairs, past the room where his mother was biting her pillow to
      smother a sense of desolation which was trying to make her sob.

      And soon only one of the diners at James’ was awake—Soames, in
      his bedroom above his father’s.

      So that fellow Jolyon was in Paris—what was he doing there?
      Hanging round Irene! The last report from Polteed had hinted that
      there might be something soon. Could it be this? That fellow,
      with his beard and his cursed amused way of speaking—son of the
      old man who had given him the nickname “Man of Property,” and
      bought the fatal house from him. Soames had ever resented having
      had to sell the house at Robin Hill; never forgiven his uncle for
      having bought it, or his cousin for living in it.

      Reckless of the cold, he threw his window up and gazed out across
      the Park. Bleak and dark the January night; little sound of
      traffic; a frost coming; bare trees; a star or two. “I’ll see
      Polteed to-morrow,” he thought. “By God! I’m mad, I think, to
      want her still. That fellow! If...? Um! No!”




      CHAPTER X DEATH OF THE DOG BALTHASAR


      Jolyon, who had crossed from Calais by night, arrived at Robin
      Hill on Sunday morning. He had sent no word beforehand, so walked
      up from the station, entering his domain by the coppice gate.
      Coming to the log seat fashioned out of an old fallen trunk, he
      sat down, first laying his overcoat on it.

      “Lumbago!” he thought; “that’s what love ends in at my time of
      life!” And suddenly Irene seemed very near, just as she had been
      that day of rambling at Fontainebleau when they had sat on a log
      to eat their lunch. Hauntingly near! Odour drawn out of fallen
      leaves by the pale-filtering sunlight soaked his nostrils. “I’m
      glad it isn’t spring,” he thought. With the scent of sap, and the
      song of birds, and the bursting of the blossoms, it would have
      been unbearable! “I hope I shall be over it by then, old fool
      that I am!” and picking up his coat, he walked on into the field.
      He passed the pond and mounted the hill slowly.

      Near the top a hoarse barking greeted him. Up on the lawn above
      the fernery he could see his old dog Balthasar. The animal, whose
      dim eyes took his master for a stranger, was warning the world
      against him. Jolyon gave his special whistle. Even at that
      distance of a hundred yards and more he could see the dawning
      recognition in the obese brown-white body. The old dog got off
      his haunches, and his tail, close-curled over his back, began a
      feeble, excited fluttering; he came waddling forward, gathered
      momentum, and disappeared over the edge of the fernery. Jolyon
      expected to meet him at the wicket gate, but Balthasar was not
      there, and, rather alarmed, he turned into the fernery. On his
      fat side, looking up with eyes already glazing, the old dog lay.

      “What is it, my poor old man?” cried Jolyon. Balthasar’s curled
      and fluffy tail just moved; his filming eyes seemed saying: “I
      can’t get up, master, but I’m glad to see you.”

      Jolyon knelt down; his eyes, very dimmed, could hardly see the
      slowly ceasing heave of the dog’s side. He raised the head a
      little—very heavy.

      “What is it, dear man? Where are you hurt?” The tail fluttered
      once; the eyes lost the look of life. Jolyon passed his hands all
      over the inert warm bulk. There was nothing—the heart had simply
      failed in that obese body from the emotion of his master’s
      return. Jolyon could feel the muzzle, where a few whitish
      bristles grew, cooling already against his lips. He stayed for
      some minutes kneeling; with his hand beneath the stiffening head.
      The body was very heavy when he bore it to the top of the field;
      leaves had drifted there, and he strewed it with a covering of
      them; there was no wind, and they would keep him from curious
      eyes until the afternoon. “I’ll bury him myself,” he thought.
      Eighteen years had gone since he first went into the St. John’s
      Wood house with that tiny puppy in his pocket. Strange that the
      old dog should die just now! Was it an omen? He turned at the
      gate to look back at that russet mound, then went slowly towards
      the house, very choky in the throat.

      June was at home; she had come down hotfoot on hearing the news
      of Jolly’s enlistment. His patriotism had conquered her feeling
      for the Boers. The atmosphere of his house was strange and
      pocketty when Jolyon came in and told them of the dog Balthasar’s
      death. The news had a unifying effect. A link with the past had
      snapped—the dog Balthasar! Two of them could remember nothing
      before his day; to June he represented the last years of her
      grandfather; to Jolyon that life of domestic stress and aesthetic
      struggle before he came again into the kingdom of his father’s
      love and wealth! And he was gone!

      In the afternoon he and Jolly took picks and spades and went out
      to the field. They chose a spot close to the russet mound, so
      that they need not carry him far, and, carefully cutting off the
      surface turf, began to dig. They dug in silence for ten minutes,
      and then rested.

      “Well, old man,” said Jolyon, “so you thought you ought?”

      “Yes,” answered Jolly; “I don’t want to a bit, of course.”

      How exactly those words represented Jolyon’s own state of mind

      “I admire you for it, old boy. I don’t believe I should have done
      it at your age—too much of a Forsyte, I’m afraid. But I suppose
      the type gets thinner with each generation. Your son, if you have
      one, may be a pure altruist; who knows?”

      “He won’t be like me, then, Dad; I’m beastly selfish.”

      “No, my dear, that you clearly are not.” Jolly shook his head,
      and they dug again.

      “Strange life a dog’s,” said Jolyon suddenly: “The only
      four-footer with rudiments of altruism and a sense of God!”

      Jolly looked at his father.

      “Do you believe in God, Dad? I’ve never known.”

      At so searching a question from one to whom it was impossible to
      make a light reply, Jolyon stood for a moment feeling his back
      tried by the digging.

      “What do you mean by God?” he said; “there are two irreconcilable
      ideas of God. There’s the Unknowable Creative Principle—one
      believes in That. And there’s the Sum of altruism in
      man—naturally one believes in That.”

      “I see. That leaves out Christ, doesn’t it?”

      Jolyon stared. Christ, the link between those two ideas! Out of
      the mouth of babes! Here was orthodoxy scientifically explained
      at last! The sublime poem of the Christ life was man’s attempt to
      join those two irreconcilable conceptions of God. And since the
      Sum of human altruism was as much a part of the Unknowable
      Creative Principle as anything else in Nature and the Universe, a
      worse link might have been chosen after all! Funny—how one went
      through life without seeing it in that sort of way!

      “What do _you_ think, old man?” he said.

      Jolly frowned. “Of course, my first year we talked a good bit
      about that sort of thing. But in the second year one gives it up;
      I don’t know why—it’s awfully interesting.”

      Jolyon remembered that he also had talked a good deal about it
      his first year at Cambridge, and given it up in his second.

      “I suppose,” said Jolly, “it’s the second God, you mean, that old
      Balthasar had a sense of.”

      “Yes, or he would never have burst his poor old heart because of
      something outside himself.”

      “But wasn’t that just selfish emotion, really?”

      Jolyon shook his head. “No, dogs are not pure Forsytes, they love
      something outside themselves.”

      Jolly smiled.

      “Well, I think I’m one,” he said. “You know, I only enlisted
      because I dared Val Dartie to.”

      “But why?”

      “We bar each other,” said Jolly shortly.

      “Ah!” muttered Jolyon. So the feud went on, unto the third
      generation—this modern feud which had no overt expression?

      “Shall I tell the boy about it?” he thought. But to what end—if
      he had to stop short of his own part?

      And Jolly thought: “It’s for Holly to let him know about that
      chap. If she doesn’t, it means she doesn’t want him told, and I
      should be sneaking. Anyway, I’ve stopped it. I’d better leave
      well alone!”

      So they dug on in silence, till Jolyon said:

      “Now, old man, I think it’s big enough.” And, resting on their
      spades, they gazed down into the hole where a few leaves had
      drifted already on a sunset wind.

      “I can’t bear this part of it,” said Jolyon suddenly.

      “Let me do it, Dad. He never cared much for me.”

      Jolyon shook his head.

      “We’ll lift him very gently, leaves and all. I’d rather not see
      him again. I’ll take his head. Now!”

      With extreme care they raised the old dog’s body, whose faded tan
      and white showed here and there under the leaves stirred by the
      wind. They laid it, heavy, cold, and unresponsive, in the grave,
      and Jolly spread more leaves over it, while Jolyon, deeply afraid
      to show emotion before his son, began quickly shovelling the
      earth on to that still shape. There went the past! If only there
      were a joyful future to look forward to! It was like stamping
      down earth on one’s own life. They replaced the turf carefully on
      the smooth little mound, and, grateful that they had spared each
      other’s feelings, returned to the house arm-in-arm.




      CHAPTER XI TIMOTHY STAYS THE ROT


      On Forsyte ’Change news of the enlistment spread fast, together
      with the report that June, not to be outdone, was going to become
      a Red Cross nurse. These events were so extreme, so subversive of
      pure Forsyteism, as to have a binding effect upon the family, and
      Timothy’s was thronged next Sunday afternoon by members trying to
      find out what they thought about it all, and exchange with each
      other a sense of family credit. Giles and Jesse Hayman would no
      longer defend the coast but go to South Africa quite soon; Jolly
      and Val would be following in April; as to June—well, you never
      knew what she would really do.

      The retirement from Spion Kop and the absence of any good news
      from the seat of war imparted an air of reality to all this,
      clinched in startling fashion by Timothy. The youngest of the old
      Forsytes—scarcely eighty, in fact popularly supposed to resemble
      their father, “Superior Dosset,” even in his best-known
      characteristic of drinking Sherry—had been invisible for so many
      years that he was almost mythical. A long generation had elapsed
      since the risks of a publisher’s business had worked on his
      nerves at the age of forty, so that he had got out with a mere
      thirty-five thousand pounds in the world, and started to make his
      living by careful investment. Putting by every year, at compound
      interest, he had doubled his capital in forty years without
      having once known what it was like to shake in his shoes over
      money matters. He was now putting aside some two thousand a year,
      and, with the care he was taking of himself, expected, so Aunt
      Hester said, to double his capital again before he died. What he
      would do with it then, with his sisters dead and himself dead,
      was often mockingly queried by free spirits such as Francie,
      Euphemia, or young Nicholas’ second, Christopher, whose spirit
      was so free that he had actually said he was going on the stage.
      All admitted, however, that this was best known to Timothy
      himself, and possibly to Soames, who never divulged a secret.

      Those few Forsytes who had seen him reported a man of thick and
      robust appearance, not very tall, with a brown-red complexion,
      grey hair, and little of the refinement of feature with which
      most of the Forsytes had been endowed by “Superior Dosset’s”
      wife, a woman of some beauty and a gentle temperament. It was
      known that he had taken surprising interest in the war, sticking
      flags into a map ever since it began, and there was uneasiness as
      to what would happen if the English were driven into the sea,
      when it would be almost impossible for him to put the flags in
      the right places. As to his knowledge of family movements or his
      views about them, little was known, save that Aunt Hester was
      always declaring that he was very upset. It was, then, in the
      nature of a portent when Forsytes, arriving on the Sunday after
      the evacuation of Spion Kop, became conscious, one after the
      other, of a presence seated in the only really comfortable
      armchair, back to the light, concealing the lower part of his
      face with a large hand, and were greeted by the awed voice of
      Aunt Hester:

      “Your Uncle Timothy, my dear.”

      Timothy’s greeting to them all was somewhat identical; and
      rather, as it were, passed over by him than expressed:

      “How de do? How de do? ’Xcuse me gettin’ up!”

      Francie was present, and Eustace had come in his car; Winifred
      had brought Imogen, breaking the ice of the restitution
      proceedings with the warmth of family appreciation at Val’s
      enlistment; and Marian Tweetyman with the last news of Giles and
      Jesse. These with Aunt Juley and Hester, young Nicholas,
      Euphemia, and—of all people!—George, who had come with Eustace in
      the car, constituted an assembly worthy of the family’s palmiest
      days. There was not one chair vacant in the whole of the little
      drawing-room, and anxiety was felt lest someone else should
      arrive.

      The constraint caused by Timothy’s presence having worn off a
      little, conversation took a military turn. George asked Aunt
      Juley when she was going out with the Red Cross, almost reducing
      her to a state of gaiety; whereon he turned to Nicholas and said:

      “Young Nick’s a warrior bold, isn’t he? When’s he going to don
      the wild khaki?”

      Young Nicholas, smiling with a sort of sweet deprecation,
      intimated that of course his mother was very anxious.

      “The Dromios are off, I hear,” said George, turning to Marian
      Tweetyman; “we shall all be there soon. _En avant_, the Forsytes!
      Roll, bowl, or pitch! Who’s for a cooler?”

      Aunt Juley gurgled, George was _so_ droll! Should Hester get
      Timothy’s map? Then he could show them all where they were.

      At a sound from Timothy, interpreted as assent, Aunt Hester left
      the room.

      George pursued his image of the Forsyte advance, addressing
      Timothy as Field Marshal; and Imogen, whom he had noted at once
      for “a pretty filly,”—as Vivandière; and holding his top hat
      between his knees, he began to beat it with imaginary drumsticks.
      The reception accorded to his fantasy was mixed. All
      laughed—George was licensed; but all felt that the family was
      being “rotted”; and this seemed to them unnatural, now that it
      was going to give five of its members to the service of the
      Queen. George might go too far; and there was relief when he got
      up, offered his arm to Aunt Juley, marched up to Timothy, saluted
      him, kissed his aunt with mock passion, said, “Oh! what a treat,
      dear papa! Come on, Eustace!” and walked out, followed by the
      grave and fastidious Eustace, who had never smiled.

      Aunt Juley’s bewildered, “Fancy not waiting for the map! You
      mustn’t mind him, Timothy. He’s _so_ droll!” broke the hush, and
      Timothy removed the hand from his mouth.

      “I don’t know what things are comin’ to,” he was heard to say.
      “What’s all this about goin’ out there? That’s not the way to
      beat those Boers.”

      Francie alone had the hardihood to observe: “What is, then, Uncle
      Timothy?”

      “All this new-fangled volunteerin’ and expense—lettin’ money out
      of the country.”

      Just then Aunt Hester brought in the map, handling it like a baby
      with eruptions. With the assistance of Euphemia it was laid on
      the piano, a small Colwood grand, last played on, it was
      believed, the summer before Aunt Ann died, thirteen years ago.
      Timothy rose. He walked over to the piano, and stood looking at
      his map while they all gathered round.

      “There you are,” he said; “that’s the position up to date; and
      very poor it is. H’m!”

      “Yes,” said Francie, greatly daring, “but how are you going to
      alter it, Uncle Timothy, without more men?”

      “Men!” said Timothy; “you don’t want men—wastin’ the country’s
      money. You want a Napoleon, he’d settle it in a month.”

      “But if you haven’t got him, Uncle Timothy?”

      “That’s their business,” replied Timothy. “What have we kept the
      Army up for—to eat their heads off in time of peace! They ought
      to be ashamed of themselves, comin’ on the country to help them
      like this! Let every man stick to his business, and we shall get
      on.”

      And looking round him, he added almost angrily:

      “Volunteerin’, indeed! Throwin’ good money after bad! We must
      save! Conserve energy that’s the only way.” And with a prolonged
      sound, not quite a sniff and not quite a snort, he trod on
      Euphemia’s toe, and went out, leaving a sensation and a faint
      scent of barley-sugar behind him.

      The effect of something said with conviction by one who has
      evidently made a sacrifice to say it is ever considerable. And
      the eight Forsytes left behind, all women except young Nicholas,
      were silent for a moment round the map. Then Francie said:

      “Really, I think he’s right, you know. After all, what is the
      Army for? They ought to have known. It’s only encouraging them.”

      “My dear!” cried Aunt Juley, “but they’ve been so progressive.
      Think of their giving up their scarlet. They were always so proud
      of it. And now they all look like convicts. Hester and I were
      saying only yesterday we were sure they must feel it very much.
      Fancy what the Iron Duke would have said!”

      “The new colour’s very smart,” said Winifred; “Val looks quite
      nice in his.”

      Aunt Juley sighed.

      “I do so wonder what Jolyon’s boy is like. To think we’ve never
      seen him! His father must be so proud of him.”

      “His father’s in Paris,” said Winifred.

      Aunt Hester’s shoulder was seen to mount suddenly, as if to ward
      off her sister’s next remark, for Juley’s crumpled cheeks had
      gushed.

      “We had dear little Mrs. MacAnder here yesterday, just back from
      Paris. And whom d’you think she saw there in the street? You’ll
      never guess.”

      “We shan’t try, Auntie,” said Euphemia.

      “Irene! Imagine! After all this time; walking with a fair
      beard....”

      “Auntie! you’ll kill me! A fair beard....”

      “I was going to say,” said Aunt Juley severely, “a fair-bearded
      gentleman. And not a day older; she was always so pretty,” she
      added, with a sort of lingering apology.

      “Oh! tell us about her, Auntie,” cried Imogen; “I can just
      remember her. She’s the skeleton in the family cupboard, isn’t
      she? And they’re such fun.”

      Aunt Hester sat down. Really, Juley had done it now!

      “She wasn’t much of a skeleton as I remember her,” murmured
      Euphemia, “extremely well-covered.”

      “My dear!” said Aunt Juley, “what a peculiar way of putting
      it—not very nice.”

      “No, but what _was_ she like?” persisted Imogen.

      “I’ll tell you, my child,” said Francie; “a kind of modern Venus,
      very well-dressed.”

      Euphemia said sharply: “Venus was never dressed, and she had blue
      eyes of melting sapphire.”

      At this juncture Nicholas took his leave.

      “Mrs. Nick is awfully strict,” said Francie with a laugh.

      “She has six children,” said Aunt Juley; “it’s very proper she
      should be careful.”

      “Was Uncle Soames awfully fond of her?” pursued the inexorable
      Imogen, moving her dark luscious eyes from face to face.

      Aunt Hester made a gesture of despair, just as Aunt Juley
      answered:

      “Yes, your Uncle Soames was very much attached to her.”

      “I suppose she ran off with someone?”

      “No, certainly not; that is—not precisely.”

      “What did she do, then, Auntie?”

      “Come along, Imogen,” said Winifred, “we must be getting back.”

      But Aunt Juley interjected resolutely: “She—she didn’t behave at
      all well.”

      “Oh, bother!” cried Imogen; “that’s as far as I ever get.”

      “Well, my dear,” said Francie, “she had a love affair which ended
      with the young man’s death; and then she left your uncle. I
      always rather liked her.”

      “She used to give me chocolates,” murmured Imogen, “and smell
      nice.”

      “Of course!” remarked Euphemia.

      “Not of course at all!” replied Francie, who used a particularly
      expensive essence of gillyflower herself.

      “I can’t think what we are about,” said Aunt Juley, raising her
      hands, “talking of such things!”

      “Was she divorced?” asked Imogen from the door.

      “Certainly not,” cried Aunt Juley; “that is—certainly not.”

      A sound was heard over by the far door. Timothy had re-entered
      the back drawing-room. “I’ve come for my map,” he said. “Who’s
      been divorced?”

      “No one, Uncle,” replied Francie with perfect truth.

      Timothy took his map off the piano.

      “Don’t let’s have anything of that sort in the family,” he said.
      “All this enlistin’s bad enough. The country’s breakin’ up; I
      don’t know what we’re comin’ to.” He shook a thick finger at the
      room: “Too many women nowadays, and they don’t know what they
      want.”

      So saying, he grasped the map firmly with both hands, and went
      out as if afraid of being answered.

      The seven women whom he had addressed broke into a subdued
      murmur, out of which emerged Francie’s, “Really, the Forsytes!”
      and Aunt Juley’s: “He must have his feet in mustard and hot water
      to-night, Hester; will you tell Jane? The blood has gone to his
      head again, I’m afraid....”

      That evening, when she and Hester were sitting alone after
      dinner, she dropped a stitch in her crochet, and looked up:

      “Hester, I can’t think where I’ve heard that dear Soames wants
      Irene to come back to him again. Who was it told us that George
      had made a funny drawing of him with the words, ‘He won’t be
      happy till he gets it’.”

      “Eustace,” answered Aunt Hester from behind _The Times;_ “he had
