      little daughter bewildered with tears, to the sight of a loved
      father lying peaceful in his last sleep, had never been, was
      never likely to be, forgotten by so impressionable and
      warm-hearted a man as Jolyon. A sense as of mystery, too, clung
      to that sad day, and about the end of one whose life had been so
      well-ordered, balanced, and above-board. It seemed incredible
      that his father could thus have vanished without, as it were,
      announcing his intention, without last words to his son, and due
      farewells. And those incoherent allusions of little Holly to “the
      lady in grey,” of Mademoiselle Beauce to a Madame Errant (as it
      sounded) involved all things in a mist, lifted a little when he
      read his father’s will and the codicil thereto. It had been his
      duty as executor of that will and codicil to inform Irene, wife
      of his cousin Soames, of her life interest in fifteen thousand
      pounds. He had called on her to explain that the existing
      investment in India Stock, ear-marked to meet the charge, would
      produce for her the interesting net sum of £430 odd a year, clear
      of income tax. This was but the third time he had seen his cousin
      Soames’ wife—if indeed she was still his wife, of which he was
      not quite sure. He remembered having seen her sitting in the
      Botanical Gardens waiting for Bosinney—a passive, fascinating
      figure, reminding him of Titian’s “Heavenly Love,” and again,
      when, charged by his father, he had gone to Montpellier Square on
      the afternoon when Bosinney’s death was known. He still recalled
      vividly her sudden appearance in the drawing-room doorway on that
      occasion—her beautiful face, passing from wild eagerness of hope
      to stony despair; remembered the compassion he had felt, Soames’
      snarling smile, his words, “We are not at home!” and the slam of
      the front door.

      This third time he saw a face and form more beautiful—freed from
      that warp of wild hope and despair. Looking at her, he thought:
      “Yes, you are just what the Dad would have admired!” And the
      strange story of his father’s Indian summer became slowly clear
      to him. She spoke of old Jolyon with reverence and tears in her
      eyes. “He was so wonderfully kind to me; I don’t know why. He
      looked so beautiful and peaceful sitting in that chair under the
      tree; it was I who first came on him sitting there, you know.
      Such a lovely day. I don’t think an end could have been happier.
      We should all like to go out like that.”

      “Quite right!” he had thought. “We should all like to go out in
      full summer with beauty stepping towards us across a lawn.”

      And looking round the little, almost empty drawing-room, he had
      asked her what she was going to do now. “I am going to live again
      a little, Cousin Jolyon. It’s wonderful to have money of one’s
      own. I’ve never had any. I shall keep this flat, I think; I’m
      used to it; but I shall be able to go to Italy.”

      “Exactly!” Jolyon had murmured, looking at her faintly smiling
      lips; and he had gone away thinking: “A fascinating woman! What a
      waste! I’m glad the Dad left her that money.” He had not seen her
      again, but every quarter he had signed her cheque, forwarding it
      to her bank, with a note to the Chelsea flat to say that he had
      done so; and always he had received a note in acknowledgment,
      generally from the flat, but sometimes from Italy; so that her
      personality had become embodied in slightly scented grey paper,
      an upright fine handwriting, and the words, “Dear Cousin Jolyon.”
      Man of property that he now was, the slender cheque he signed
      often gave rise to the thought: “Well, I suppose she just
      manages”; sliding into a vague wonder how she was faring
      otherwise in a world of men not wont to let beauty go
      unpossessed. At first Holly had spoken of her sometimes, but
      “ladies in grey” soon fade from children’s memories; and the
      tightening of June’s lips in those first weeks after her
      grandfather’s death whenever her former friend’s name was
      mentioned, had discouraged allusion. Only once, indeed, had June
      spoken definitely: “I’ve forgiven her. I’m frightfully glad she’s
      independent now....”

      On receiving Soames’ card, Jolyon said to the maid—for he could
      not abide butlers—“Show him into the study, please, and say I’ll
      be there in a minute”; and then he looked at Holly and asked:

      “Do you remember ‘the lady in grey,’ who used to give you
      music-lessons?”

      “Oh yes, why? Has she come?”

      Jolyon shook his head, and, changing his holland blouse for a
      coat, was silent, perceiving suddenly that such history was not
      for those young ears. His face, in fact, became whimsical
      perplexity incarnate while he journeyed towards the study.

      Standing by the french-window, looking out across the terrace at
      the oak tree, were two figures, middle-aged and young, and he
      thought: “Who’s that boy? Surely they never had a child.”

      The elder figure turned. The meeting of those two Forsytes of the
      second generation, so much more sophisticated than the first, in
      the house built for the one and owned and occupied by the other,
      was marked by subtle defensiveness beneath distinct attempt at
      cordiality. “Has he come about his wife?” Jolyon was thinking;
      and Soames, “How shall I begin?” while Val, brought to break the
      ice, stood negligently scrutinising this “bearded pard” from
      under his dark, thick eyelashes.

      “This is Val Dartie,” said Soames, “my sister’s son. He’s just
      going up to Oxford. I thought I’d like him to know your boy.”

      “Ah! I’m sorry Jolly’s away. What college?”

      “B.N.C.,” replied Val.

      “Jolly’s at the ‘House,’ but he’ll be delighted to look you up.”

      “Thanks awfully.”

      “Holly’s in—if you could put up with a female relation, she’d
      show you round. You’ll find her in the hall if you go through the
      curtains. I was just painting her.”

      With another “Thanks, awfully!” Val vanished, leaving the two
      cousins with the ice unbroken.

      “I see you’ve some drawings at the ‘Water Colours,’” said Soames.

      Jolyon winced. He had been out of touch with the Forsyte family
      at large for twenty-six years, but they were connected in his
      mind with Frith’s “Derby Day” and Landseer prints. He had heard
      from June that Soames was a connoisseur, which made it worse. He
      had become aware, too, of a curious sensation of repugnance.

      “I haven’t seen you for a long time,” he said.

      “No,” answered Soames between close lips, “not since—as a matter
      of fact, it’s about that I’ve come. You’re her trustee, I’m
      told.”

      Jolyon nodded.

      “Twelve years is a long time,” said Soames rapidly: “I—I’m tired
      of it.”

      Jolyon found no more appropriate answer than:

      “Won’t you smoke?”

      “No, thanks.”

      Jolyon himself lit a cigarette.

      “I wish to be free,” said Soames abruptly.

      “I don’t see her,” murmured Jolyon through the fume of his
      cigarette.

      “But you know where she lives, I suppose?”

      Jolyon nodded. He did not mean to give her address without
      permission. Soames seemed to divine his thought.

      “I don’t want her address,” he said; “I know it.”

      “What exactly do you want?”

      “She deserted me. I want a divorce.”

      “Rather late in the day, isn’t it?”

      “Yes,” said Soames. And there was a silence.

      “I don’t know much about these things—at least, I’ve forgotten,”
      said Jolyon with a wry smile. He himself had had to wait for
      death to grant him a divorce from the first Mrs. Jolyon. “Do you
      wish me to see her about it?”

      Soames raised his eyes to his cousin’s face. “I suppose there’s
      someone,” he said.

      A shrug moved Jolyon’s shoulders.

      “I don’t know at all. I imagine you may have both lived as if the
      other were dead. It’s usual in these cases.”

      Soames turned to the window. A few early fallen oak-leaves
      strewed the terrace already, and were rolling round in the wind.
      Jolyon saw the figures of Holly and Val Dartie moving across the
      lawn towards the stables. “I’m not going to run with the hare and
      hunt with the hounds,” he thought. “I must act for her. The Dad
      would have wished that.” And for a swift moment he seemed to see
      his father’s figure in the old armchair, just beyond Soames,
      sitting with knees crossed, _The Times_ in his hand. It vanished.

      “My father was fond of her,” he said quietly.

      “Why he should have been I don’t know,” Soames answered without
      looking round. “She brought trouble to your daughter June; she
      brought trouble to everyone. I gave her all she wanted. I would
      have given her even—forgiveness—but she chose to leave me.”

      In Jolyon compassion was checked by the tone of that close voice.
      What was there in the fellow that made it so difficult to be
      sorry for him?

      “I can go and see her, if you like,” he said. “I suppose she
      might be glad of a divorce, but I know nothing.”

      Soames nodded.

      “Yes, please go. As I say, I know her address; but I’ve no wish
      to see her.” His tongue was busy with his lips, as if they were
      very dry.

      “You’ll have some tea?” said Jolyon, stifling the words: “And see
      the house.” And he led the way into the hall. When he had rung
      the bell and ordered tea, he went to his easel to turn his
      drawing to the wall. He could not bear, somehow, that his work
      should be seen by Soames, who was standing there in the middle of
      the great room which had been designed expressly to afford wall
      space for his own pictures. In his cousin’s face, with its
      unseizable family likeness to himself, and its chinny, narrow,
      concentrated look, Jolyon saw that which moved him to the
      thought: “That chap could never forget anything—nor ever give
      himself away. He’s pathetic!”




      CHAPTER VII THE COLT AND THE FILLY


      When young Val left the presence of the last generation he was
      thinking: “This is jolly dull! Uncle Soames does take the bun. I
      wonder what this filly’s like?” He anticipated no pleasure from
      her society; and suddenly he saw her standing there looking at
      him. Why, she was pretty! What luck!

      “I’m afraid you don’t know me,” he said. “My name’s Val
      Dartie—I’m once removed, second cousin, something like that, you
      know. My mother’s name was Forsyte.”

      Holly, whose slim brown hand remained in his because she was too
      shy to withdraw it, said:

      “I don’t know any of my relations. Are there many?”

      “Tons. They’re awful—most of them. At least, I don’t know—some of
      them. One’s relations always are, aren’t they?”

      “I expect they think one awful too,” said Holly.

      “I don’t know why they should. No one could think you awful, of
      course.”

      Holly looked at him—the wistful candour in those grey eyes gave
      young Val a sudden feeling that he must protect her.

      “I mean there are people and people,” he added astutely. “Your
      dad looks awfully decent, for instance.”

      “Oh yes!” said Holly fervently; “he is.”

      A flush mounted in Val’s cheeks—that scene in the Pandemonium
      promenade—the dark man with the pink carnation developing into
      his own father! “But you know what the Forsytes are,” he said
      almost viciously. “Oh! I forgot; you don’t.”

      “What are they?”

      “Oh! fearfully careful; not sportsmen a bit. Look at Uncle
      Soames!”

      “I’d like to,” said Holly.

      Val resisted a desire to run his arm through hers. “Oh! no,” he
      said, “let’s go out. You’ll see him quite soon enough. What’s
      your brother like?”

      Holly led the way on to the terrace and down to the lawn without
      answering. How describe Jolly, who, ever since she remembered
      anything, had been her lord, master, and ideal?

      “Does he sit on you?” said Val shrewdly. “I shall be knowing him
      at Oxford. Have you got any horses?”

      Holly nodded. “Would you like to see the stables?”

      “Rather!”

      They passed under the oak tree, through a thin shrubbery, into
      the stable-yard. There under a clock-tower lay a fluffy
      brown-and-white dog, so old that he did not get up, but faintly
      waved the tail curled over his back.

      “That’s Balthasar,” said Holly; “he’s so old—awfully old, nearly
      as old as I am. Poor old boy! He’s devoted to Dad.”

      “Balthasar! That’s a rum name. He isn’t purebred you know.”

      “No! but he’s a darling,” and she bent down to stroke the dog.
      Gentle and supple, with dark covered head and slim browned neck
      and hands, she seemed to Val strange and sweet, like a thing
      slipped between him and all previous knowledge.

      “When grandfather died,” she said, “he wouldn’t eat for two days.
      He saw him die, you know.”

      “Was that old Uncle Jolyon? Mother always says he was a topper.”

      “He was,” said Holly simply, and opened the stable door.

      In a loose-box stood a silver roan of about fifteen hands, with a
      long black tail and mane. “This is mine—Fairy.”

      “Ah!” said Val, “she’s a jolly palfrey. But you ought to bang her
      tail. She’d look much smarter.” Then catching her wondering look,
      he thought suddenly: “I don’t know—anything she likes!” And he
      took a long sniff of the stable air. “Horses are ripping, aren’t
      they? My Dad...” he stopped.

      “Yes?” said Holly.

      An impulse to unbosom himself almost overcame him—but not quite.
      “Oh! I don’t know he’s often gone a mucker over them. I’m jolly
      keen on them too—riding and hunting. I like racing awfully, as
      well; I should like to be a gentleman rider.” And oblivious of
      the fact that he had but one more day in town, with two
      engagements, he plumped out:

      “I say, if I hire a gee to-morrow, will you come a ride in
      Richmond Park?”

      Holly clasped her hands.

      “Oh yes! I simply love riding. But there’s Jolly’s horse; why
      don’t you ride him? Here he is. We could go after tea.”

      Val looked doubtfully at his trousered legs.

      He had imagined them immaculate before her eyes in high brown
      boots and Bedford cords.

      “I don’t much like riding his horse,” he said. “He mightn’t like
      it. Besides, Uncle Soames wants to get back, I expect. Not that I
      believe in buckling under to him, you know. You haven’t got an
      uncle, have you? This is rather a good beast,” he added,
      scrutinising Jolly’s horse, a dark brown, which was showing the
      whites of its eyes. “You haven’t got any hunting here, I
      suppose?”

      “No; I don’t know that I want to hunt. It must be awfully
      exciting, of course; but it’s cruel, isn’t it? June says so.”

      “Cruel?” ejaculated Val. “Oh! that’s all rot. Who’s June?”

      “My sister—my half-sister, you know—much older than me.” She had
      put her hands up to both cheeks of Jolly’s horse, and was rubbing
      her nose against its nose with a gentle snuffling noise which
      seemed to have an hypnotic effect on the animal. Val contemplated
      her cheek resting against the horse’s nose, and her eyes gleaming
      round at him. “She’s really a duck,” he thought.

      They returned to the house less talkative, followed this time by
      the dog Balthasar, walking more slowly than anything on earth,
      and clearly expecting them not to exceed his speed limit.

      “This is a ripping place,” said Val from under the oak tree,
      where they had paused to allow the dog Balthasar to come up.

      “Yes,” said Holly, and sighed. “Of course I want to go
      everywhere. I wish I were a gipsy.”

      “Yes, gipsies are jolly,” replied Val, with a conviction which
      had just come to him; “you’re rather like one, you know.”

      Holly’s face shone suddenly and deeply, like dark leaves gilded
      by the sun.

      “To go mad-rabbiting everywhere and see everything, and live in
      the open—oh! wouldn’t it be fun?”

      “Let’s do it!” said Val.

      “Oh yes, let’s!”

      “It’d be grand sport, just you and I.”

      Then Holly perceived the quaintness and gushed.

      “Well, we’ve got to do it,” said Val obstinately, but reddening
      too.

      “I believe in doing things you want to do. What’s down there?”

      “The kitchen-garden, and the pond and the coppice, and the farm.”

      “Let’s go down!”

      Holly glanced back at the house.

      “It’s tea-time, I expect; there’s Dad beckoning.”

      Val, uttering a growly sound, followed her towards the house.

      When they re-entered the hall gallery the sight of two
      middle-aged Forsytes drinking tea together had its magical
      effect, and they became quite silent. It was, indeed, an
      impressive spectacle. The two were seated side by side on an
      arrangement in marqueterie which looked like three silvery pink
      chairs made one, with a low tea-table in front of them. They
      seemed to have taken up that position, as far apart as the seat
      would permit, so that they need not look at each other too much;
      and they were eating and drinking rather than talking—Soames with
      his air of despising the tea-cake as it disappeared, Jolyon of
      finding himself slightly amusing. To the casual eye neither would
      have seemed greedy, but both were getting through a good deal of
      sustenance. The two young ones having been supplied with food,
      the process went on silent and absorbative, till, with the advent
      of cigarettes, Jolyon said to Soames:

      “And how’s Uncle James?”

      “Thanks, very shaky.”

      “We’re a wonderful family, aren’t we? The other day I was
      calculating the average age of the ten old Forsytes from my
      father’s family Bible. I make it eighty-four already, and five
      still living. They ought to beat the record;” and looking
      whimsically at Soames, he added:

      “We aren’t the men they were, you know.”

      Soames smiled. “Do you really think I shall admit that I’m not
      their equal”. he seemed to be saying, “or that I’ve got to give
      up anything, especially life?”

      “We may live to their age, perhaps,” pursued Jolyon, “but
      self-consciousness is a handicap, you know, and that’s the
      difference between us. We’ve lost conviction. How and when
      self-consciousness was born I never can make out. My father had a
      little, but I don’t believe any other of the old Forsytes ever
      had a scrap. Never to see yourself as others see you, it’s a
      wonderful preservative. The whole history of the last century is
      in the difference between us. And between us and you,” he added,
      gazing through a ring of smoke at Val and Holly, uncomfortable
      under his quizzical regard, “there’ll be—another difference. I
      wonder what.”

      Soames took out his watch.

      “We must go,” he said, “if we’re to catch our train.”

      “Uncle Soames never misses a train,” muttered Val, with his mouth
      full.

      “Why should I?” Soames answered simply.

      “Oh! I don’t know,” grumbled Val, “other people do.”

      At the front door he gave Holly’s slim brown hand a long and
      surreptitious squeeze.

      “Look out for me to-morrow,” he whispered; “three o’clock. I’ll
      wait for you in the road; it’ll save time. We’ll have a ripping
      ride.” He gazed back at her from the lodge gate, and, but for the
      principles of a man about town, would have waved his hand. He
      felt in no mood to tolerate his uncle’s conversation. But he was
      not in danger. Soames preserved a perfect muteness, busy with
      far-away thoughts.

      The yellow leaves came down about those two walking the mile and
      a half which Soames had traversed so often in those long-ago days
      when he came down to watch with secret pride the building of the
      house—that house which was to have been the home of him and her
      from whom he was now going to seek release. He looked back once,
      up that endless vista of autumn lane between the yellowing
      hedges. What an age ago! “I don’t want to see her,” he had said
      to Jolyon. Was that true? “I may have to,” he thought; and he
      shivered, seized by one of those queer shudderings that they say
      mean footsteps on one’s grave. A chilly world! A queer world! And
      glancing sidelong at his nephew, he thought: “Wish I were his
      age! I wonder what she’s like now!”




      CHAPTER VIII JOLYON PROSECUTES TRUSTEESHIP


      When those two were gone Jolyon did not return to his painting,
      for daylight was failing, but went to the study, craving
      unconsciously a revival of that momentary vision of his father
      sitting in the old leather chair with his knees crossed and his
      straight eyes gazing up from under the dome of his massive brow.
      Often in this little room, cosiest in the house, Jolyon would
      catch a moment of communion with his father. Not, indeed, that he
      had definitely any faith in the persistence of the human
      spirit—the feeling was not so logical—it was, rather, an
      atmospheric impact, like a scent, or one of those strong
      animistic impressions from forms, or effects of light, to which
      those with the artist’s eye are especially prone. Here only—in
      this little unchanged room where his father had spent the most of
      his waking hours—could be retrieved the feeling that he was not
      quite gone, that the steady counsel of that old spirit and the
      warmth of his masterful lovability endured.

      What would his father be advising now, in this sudden
      recrudescence of an old tragedy—what would he say to this menace
      against her to whom he had taken such a fancy in the last weeks
      of his life? “I must do my best for her,” thought Jolyon; “he
      left her to me in his will. But what _is_ the best?”

      And as if seeking to regain the sapience, the balance and shrewd
      common sense of that old Forsyte, he sat down in the ancient
      chair and crossed his knees. But he felt a mere shadow sitting
      there; nor did any inspiration come, while the fingers of the
      wind tapped on the darkening panes of the french-window.

      “Go and see her?” he thought, “or ask her to come down here?
      What’s her life been? What is it now, I wonder? Beastly to rake
      up things at this time of day.” Again the figure of his cousin
      standing with a hand on a front door of a fine olive-green leaped
      out, vivid, like one of those figures from old-fashioned clocks
      when the hour strikes; and his words sounded in Jolyon’s ears
      clearer than any chime: “I manage my own affairs. I’ve told you
      once, I tell you again: We are not at home.” The repugnance he
      had then felt for Soames—for his flat-cheeked, shaven face full
      of spiritual bull-doggedness; for his spare, square, sleek figure
      slightly crouched as it were over the bone he could not
      digest—came now again, fresh as ever, nay, with an odd increase.
      “I dislike him,” he thought, “I dislike him to the very roots of
      me. And that’s lucky; it’ll make it easier for me to back his
      wife.” Half-artist, and half-Forsyte, Jolyon was constitutionally
      averse from what he termed “ructions”; unless angered, he
      conformed deeply to that classic description of the she-dog,
      “Er’d ruther run than fight.” A little smile became settled in
      his beard. Ironical that Soames should come down here—to this
      house, built for himself! How he had gazed and gaped at this ruin
      of his past intention; furtively nosing at the walls and
      stairway, appraising everything! And intuitively Jolyon thought:
      “I believe the fellow even now would like to be living here. He
      could never leave off longing for what he once owned! Well, I
      must act, somehow or other; but it’s a bore—a great bore.”

      Late that evening he wrote to the Chelsea flat, asking if Irene
      would see him.

      The old century which had seen the plant of individualism flower
      so wonderfully was setting in a sky orange with coming storms.
      Rumours of war added to the briskness of a London turbulent at
      the close of the summer holidays. And the streets to Jolyon, who
      was not often up in town, had a feverish look, due to these new
      motorcars and cabs, of which he disapproved aesthetically. He
      counted these vehicles from his hansom, and made the proportion
      of them one in twenty. “They were one in thirty about a year
      ago,” he thought; “they’ve come to stay. Just so much more
      rattling round of wheels and general stink”—for he was one of
      those rather rare Liberals who object to anything new when it
      takes a material form; and he instructed his driver to get down
      to the river quickly, out of the traffic, desiring to look at the
      water through the mellowing screen of plane-trees. At the little
      block of flats which stood back some fifty yards from the
      Embankment, he told the cabman to wait, and went up to the first
      floor.

      Yes, Mrs. Heron was at home!

      The effect of a settled if very modest income was at once
      apparent to him remembering the threadbare refinement in that
      tiny flat eight years ago when he announced her good fortune.
      Everything was now fresh, dainty, and smelled of flowers. The
      general effect was silvery with touches of black, hydrangea
      colour, and gold. “A woman of great taste,” he thought. Time had
      dealt gently with Jolyon, for he was a Forsyte. But with Irene
      Time hardly seemed to deal at all, or such was his impression.
      She appeared to him not a day older, standing there in
      mole-coloured velvet corduroy, with soft dark eyes and dark gold
      hair, with outstretched hand and a little smile.

      “Won’t you sit down?”

      He had probably never occupied a chair with a fuller sense of
      embarrassment.

      “You look absolutely unchanged,” he said.

      “And you look younger, Cousin Jolyon.”

      Jolyon ran his hands through his hair, whose thickness was still
      a comfort to him.

      “I’m ancient, but I don’t feel it. That’s one thing about
      painting, it keeps you young. Titian lived to ninety-nine, and
      had to have plague to kill him off. Do you know, the first time I
      ever saw you I thought of a picture by him?”

      “When did you see me for the first time?”

      “In the Botanical Gardens.”

      “How did you know me, if you’d never seen me before?”

      “By someone who came up to you.” He was looking at her hardily,
      but her face did not change; and she said quietly:

      “Yes; many lives ago.”

      “What is _your_ recipe for youth, Irene?”

      “People who don’t _live_ are wonderfully preserved.”

      H’m! a bitter little saying! People who don’t live! But an
      opening, and he took it. “You remember my Cousin Soames?”

      He saw her smile faintly at that whimsicality, and at once went
      on:

      “He came to see me the day before yesterday! He wants a divorce.
      Do you?”

      “I?” The word seemed startled out of her. “After twelve years?
      It’s rather late. Won’t it be difficult?”

      Jolyon looked hard into her face. “Unless....” he said.

      “Unless I have a lover now. But I have never had one since.”

      What did he feel at the simplicity and candour of those words?
      Relief, surprise, pity! Venus for twelve years without a lover!

      “And yet,” he said, “I suppose you would give a good deal to be
      free, too?”

      “I don’t know. What does it matter, now?”

      “But if you were to love again?”

      “I should love.” In that simple answer she seemed to sum up the
      whole philosophy of one on whom the world had turned its back.

      “Well! Is there anything you would like me to say to him?”

      “Only that I’m sorry he’s not free. He had his chance once. I
      don’t know why he didn’t take it.”

      “Because he was a Forsyte; we never part with things, you know,
      unless we want something in their place; and not always then.”

      Irene smiled. “Don’t you, Cousin Jolyon?—I think you do.”

      “Of course, I’m a bit of a mongrel—not quite a pure Forsyte. I
      never take the halfpennies off my cheques, I put them on,” said
      Jolyon uneasily.

      “Well, what does Soames want in place of me now?”

      “I don’t know; perhaps children.”

      She was silent for a little, looking down.

      “Yes,” she murmured; “it’s hard. I would help him to be free if I
      could.”

      Jolyon gazed into his hat, his embarrassment was increasing fast;
      so was his admiration, his wonder, and his pity. She was so
      lovely, and so lonely; and altogether it was such a coil!

      “Well,” he said, “I shall have to see Soames. If there’s anything
      I can do for you I’m always at your service. You must think of me
      as a wretched substitute for my father. At all events I’ll let
      you know what happens when I speak to Soames. He may supply the
      material himself.”

      She shook her head.

      “You see, he has a lot to lose; and I have nothing. I should like
      him to be free; but I don’t see what I can do.”

      “Nor I at the moment,” said Jolyon, and soon after took his
      leave. He went down to his hansom. Half-past three! Soames would
      be at his office still.

      “To the Poultry,” he called through the trap. In front of the
      Houses of Parliament and in Whitehall, newsvendors were calling,
      “Grave situation in the Transvaal!” but the cries hardly roused
      him, absorbed in recollection of that very beautiful figure, of
      her soft dark glance, and the words: “I have never had one
      since.” What on earth did such a woman do with her life,
      back-watered like this? Solitary, unprotected, with every man’s
      hand against her or rather—reaching out to grasp her at the least
      sign. And year after year she went on like that!

      The word “Poultry” above the passing citizens brought him back to
      reality.

      “Forsyte, Bustard and Forsyte,” in black letters on a ground the
      colour of peasoup, spurred him to a sort of vigour, and he went
      up the stone stairs muttering: “Fusty musty ownerships! Well, we
      couldn’t do without them!”

      “I want Mr. Soames Forsyte,” he said to the boy who opened the
      door.

      “What name?”

      “Mr. Jolyon Forsyte.”

      The youth looked at him curiously, never having seen a Forsyte
      with a beard, and vanished.

      The offices of “Forsyte, Bustard and Forsyte” had slowly absorbed
      the offices of “Tooting and Bowles,” and occupied the whole of
      the first floor.

      The firm consisted now of nothing but Soames and a number of
      managing and articled clerks. The complete retirement of James
      some six years ago had accelerated business, to which the final
      touch of speed had been imparted when Bustard dropped off, worn
      out, as many believed, by the suit of “Fryer _versus_ Forsyte,”
      more in Chancery than ever and less likely to benefit its
      beneficiaries. Soames, with his saner grasp of actualities, had
      never permitted it to worry him; on the contrary, he had long
      perceived that Providence had presented him therein with £200 a
      year net in perpetuity, and—why not?

      When Jolyon entered, his cousin was drawing out a list of
      holdings in Consols, which in view of the rumours of war he was
      going to advise his companies to put on the market at once,
      before other companies did the same. He looked round, sidelong,
      and said:

      “How are you? Just one minute. Sit down, won’t you?” And having
      entered three amounts, and set a ruler to keep his place, he
      turned towards Jolyon, biting the side of his flat forefinger....

      “Yes?” he said.

      “I have seen her.”

      Soames frowned.

      “Well?”

      “She has remained faithful to memory.”

      Having said that, Jolyon was ashamed. His cousin had flushed a
      dusky yellowish red. What had made him tease the poor brute!

      “I was to tell you she is sorry you are not free. Twelve years is
      a long time. You know your law, and what chance it gives you.”
      Soames uttered a curious little grunt, and the two remained a
      full minute without speaking. “Like wax!” thought Jolyon,
      watching that close face, where the flush was fast subsiding.
      “He’ll never give me a sign of what he’s thinking, or going to
      do. Like wax!” And he transferred his gaze to a plan of that
      flourishing town, “By-Street on Sea,” the future existence of
      which lay exposed on the wall to the possessive instincts of the
      firm’s clients. The whimsical thought flashed through him: “I
      wonder if I shall get a bill of costs for this—‘To attending Mr.
      Jolyon Forsyte in the matter of my divorce, to receiving his
      account of his visit to my wife, and to advising him to go and
      see her again, sixteen and eightpence.’”

      Suddenly Soames said: “I can’t go on like this. I tell you, I
      can’t go on like this.” His eyes were shifting from side to side,
      like an animal’s when it looks for way of escape. “He really
      suffers,” thought Jolyon; “I’ve no business to forget that, just
      because I don’t like him.”

      “Surely,” he said gently, “it lies with yourself. A man can
      always put these things through if he’ll take it on himself.”

      Soames turned square to him, with a sound which seemed to come
      from somewhere very deep.

      “Why should I suffer more than I’ve suffered already? Why should
      I?”

      Jolyon could only shrug his shoulders. His reason agreed, his
      instinct rebelled; he could not have said why.

      “Your father,” went on Soames, “took an interest in her—why,
      goodness knows! And I suppose you do too?” he gave Jolyon a sharp
      look. “It seems to me that one only has to do another person a
      wrong to get all the sympathy. I don’t know in what way I was to
      blame—I’ve never known. I always treated her well. I gave her
      everything she could wish for. I wanted her.”

      Again Jolyon’s reason nodded; again his instinct shook its head.
      “What is it?” he thought; “there must be something wrong in me.
      Yet if there is, I’d rather be wrong than right.”

      “After all,” said Soames with a sort of glum fierceness, “she was
      my wife.”

      In a flash the thought went through his listener: “There it is!
      Ownerships! Well, we all own things. But—human beings! Pah!”

      “You have to look at facts,” he said drily, “or rather the want
      of them.”

      Soames gave him another quick suspicious look.

      “The want of them?” he said. “Yes, but I am not so sure.”

      “I beg your pardon,” replied Jolyon; “I’ve told you what she
      said. It was explicit.”

      “My experience has not been one to promote blind confidence in
      her word. We shall see.”

      Jolyon got up.

      “Good-bye,” he said curtly.

      “Good-bye,” returned Soames; and Jolyon went out trying to
      understand the look, half-startled, half-menacing, on his
      cousin’s face. He sought Waterloo Station in a disturbed frame of
      mind, as though the skin of his moral being had been scraped; and
      all the way down in the train he thought of Irene in her lonely
      flat, and of Soames in his lonely office, and of the strange
      paralysis of life that lay on them both. “In chancery!” he
      thought. “Both their necks in chancery—and her’s so pretty!”




      CHAPTER IX VAL HEARS THE NEWS


      The keeping of engagements had not as yet been a conspicuous
      feature in the life of young Val Dartie, so that when he broke
      two and kept one, it was the latter event which caused him, if
      anything, the greater surprise, while jogging back to town from
      Robin Hill after his ride with Holly. She had been even prettier
      than he had thought her yesterday, on her silver-roan,
      long-tailed “palfrey”. and it seemed to him, self-critical in the
      brumous October gloaming and the outskirts of London, that only
      his boots had shone throughout their two-hour companionship. He
      took out his new gold “hunter”—present from James—and looked not
      at the time, but at sections of his face in the glittering back
      of its opened case. He had a temporary spot over one eyebrow, and
      it displeased him, for it must have displeased her. Crum never
      had any spots. Together with Crum rose the scene in the promenade
      of the Pandemonium. To-day he had not had the faintest desire to
      unbosom himself to Holly about his father. His father lacked
      poetry, the stirrings of which he was feeling for the first time
      in his nineteen years. The Liberty, with Cynthia Dark, that
      almost mythical embodiment of rapture; the Pandemonium, with the
      woman of uncertain age—both seemed to Val completely “off,” fresh
      from communion with this new, shy, dark-haired young cousin of
      his. She rode “Jolly well,” too, so that it had been all the more
      flattering that she had let him lead her where he would in the
      long gallops of Richmond Park, though she knew them so much
      better than he did. Looking back on it all, he was mystified by
      the barrenness of his speech; he felt that he could say “an awful
      lot of fetching things” if he had but the chance again, and the
      thought that he must go back to Littlehampton on the morrow, and
      to Oxford on the twelfth—“to that beastly exam,” too—without the
      faintest chance of first seeing her again, caused darkness to
      settle on his spirit even more quickly than on the evening. He
      should write to her, however, and she had promised to answer.
      Perhaps, too, she would come up to Oxford to see her brother.
      That thought was like the first star, which came out as he rode
      into Padwick’s livery stables in the purlieus of Sloane Square.
      He got off and stretched himself luxuriously, for he had ridden
      some twenty-five good miles. The Dartie within him made him
      chaffer for five minutes with young Padwick concerning the
      favourite for the Cambridgeshire; then with the words, “Put the
      gee down to my account,” he walked away, a little wide at the
      knees, and flipping his boots with his knotty little cane. “I
      don’t feel a bit inclined to go out,” he thought. “I wonder if
      mother will stand fizz for my last night!” With “fizz” and
      recollection, he could well pass a domestic evening.

      When he came down, speckless after his bath, he found his mother
      scrupulous in a low evening dress, and, to his annoyance, his
      Uncle Soames. They stopped talking when he came in; then his
      uncle said:

      “He’d better be told.”

      At those words, which meant something about his father, of
      course, Val’s first thought was of Holly. Was it anything
      beastly? His mother began speaking.

      “Your father,” she said in her fashionably appointed voice, while
      her fingers plucked rather pitifully at sea-green brocade, “your
      father, my dear boy, has—is not at Newmarket; he’s on his way to
      South America. He—he’s left us.”

      Val looked from her to Soames. Left them! Was he sorry? Was he
      fond of his father? It seemed to him that he did not know. Then,
      suddenly—as at a whiff of gardenias and cigars—his heart twitched
      within him, and he _was_ sorry. One’s father belonged to one,
      could not go off in this fashion—it was not done! Nor had he
      always been the “bounder” of the Pandemonium promenade. There
      were precious memories of tailors’ shops and horses, tips at
      school, and general lavish kindness, when in luck.

      “But why?” he said. Then, as a sportsman himself, was sorry he
      had asked. The mask of his mother’s face was all disturbed; and
      he burst out:

      “All right, Mother, don’t tell me! Only, what does it mean?”

      “A divorce, Val, I’m afraid.”

      Val uttered a queer little grunt, and looked quickly at his
      uncle—that uncle whom he had been taught to look on as a
      guarantee against the consequences of having a father, even
      against the Dartie blood in his own veins. The flat-checked
      visage seemed to wince, and this upset him.

      “It won’t be public, will it?”

      So vividly before him had come recollection of his own eyes glued
      to the unsavoury details of many a divorce suit in the Public
      Press.

      “Can’t it be done quietly somehow? It’s so disgusting for—for
      mother, and—and everybody.”

      “Everything will be done as quietly as it can, you may be sure.”

      “Yes—but, why is it necessary at all? Mother doesn’t want to
      marry again.”

      Himself, the girls, their name tarnished in the sight of his
      schoolfellows and of Crum, of the men at Oxford, of—Holly!
      Unbearable! What was to be gained by it?

      “Do you, Mother?” he said sharply.

      Thus brought face to face with so much of her own feeling by the
      one she loved best in the world, Winifred rose from the Empire
      chair in which she had been sitting. She saw that her son would
      be against her unless he was told everything; and, yet, how could
      she tell him? Thus, still plucking at the green brocade, she
      stared at Soames. Val, too, stared at Soames. Surely this
      embodiment of respectability and the sense of property could not
      wish to bring such a slur on his own sister!

      Soames slowly passed a little inlaid paperknife over the smooth
      surface of a marqueterie table; then, without looking at his
      nephew, he began:

      “You don’t understand what your mother has had to put up with
      these twenty years. This is only the last straw, Val.” And
      glancing up sideways at Winifred, he added:

      “Shall I tell him?”

      Winifred was silent. If he were not told, he would be against
      her! Yet, how dreadful to be told such things of his own father!
      Clenching her lips, she nodded.

      Soames spoke in a rapid, even voice:

      “He has always been a burden round your mother’s neck. She has
      paid his debts over and over again; he has often been drunk,
      abused and threatened her; and now he is gone to Buenos Aires
      with a dancer.” And, as if distrusting the efficacy of those
      words on the boy, he went on quickly:

      “He took your mother’s pearls to give to her.”

      Val jerked up his hand, then. At that signal of distress Winifred
      cried out:

      “That’ll do, Soames—stop!”

      In the boy, the Dartie and the Forsyte were struggling. For
      debts, drink, dancers, he had a certain sympathy; but the
      pearls—no! That was too much! And suddenly he found his mother’s
      hand squeezing his.

      “You see,” he heard Soames say, “we can’t have it all begin over
      again. There’s a limit; we must strike while the iron’s hot.”

      Val freed his hand.

      “But—you’re—never going to bring out that about the pearls! I
      couldn’t stand that—I simply couldn’t!”

      Winifred cried out:

      “No, no, Val—oh no! That’s only to show you how impossible your
      father is!” And his uncle nodded. Somewhat assuaged, Val took out
      a cigarette. His father had bought him that thin curved case. Oh!
      it was unbearable—just as he was going up to Oxford!

      “Can’t mother be protected without?” he said. “I could look after
      her. It could always be done later if it was really necessary.”

      A smile played for a moment round Soames’ lips, and became
      bitter.

      “You don’t know what you’re talking of; nothing’s so fatal as
      delay in such matters.”

      “Why?”

      “I tell you, boy, nothing’s so fatal. I know from experience.”

      His voice had the ring of exasperation. Val regarded him
      round-eyed, never having known his uncle express any sort of
      feeling. Oh! Yes—he remembered now—there had been an Aunt Irene,
