
The Death Eater shook his ugly head again, trying to 
clear it, but before he could pull himself together 
again, it began to shrink back to babyhood once 
more... 

There was a shout from a room nearby, then a crash 
and a scream. 

“RON?” Harry yelled, turning quickly from the 
monstrous transformation taking place before them. 
“GINNY? LUNA?” 

“Harry!” Hermione screamed. 

The Death Eater had pulled his head out of the bell 
jar. His appearance was utterly bizarre, his tiny 
baby’s head bawling loudly while his thick arms 

Page | 1009Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




flailed dangerously in all directions, narrowly missing 
Harry, who ducked. Harry raised his wand but to his 
amazement Hermione seized his arm. 

“You can’t hurt a baby!” 

There was no time to argue the point. Harry could 
hear more footsteps growing louder from the Hall of 
Prophecy they had just left and knew, too late, that 
he ought not to have shouted and given away their 
position. 

“Come on!” he said again, and leaving the ugly baby- 
headed Death Eater staggering behind them, they 
took off for the door that stood ajar at the other end of 
the room, leading back into the black hallway. 

They had run halfway toward it when Harry saw 
through the open door two more Death Eaters 
running across the black room toward them. Veering 
left he burst instead into a small, dark, cluttered 
office and slammed the door behind them. 

“Collo — ” began Hermione, but before she could 
complete the spell the door had burst open again and 
the two Death Eaters had come hurtling inside. With 
a cry of triumph, both yelled, “ IMPEDIMENT A\” 

Harry, Hermione, and Neville were all knocked 
backward off their feet. Neville was thrown over the 
desk and disappeared from view, Hermione smashed 
into a bookcase and was promptly deluged in a 
cascade of heavy books; the back of Harry’s head 
slammed into the stone wall behind him, tiny lights 
burst in front of his eyes, and for a moment he was 
too dizzy and bewildered to react. 

“WEVE GOT HIM!” yelled the Death Eater nearest 
Harry, “IN AN OFFICE OFF — ” 

Page | lOlOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ Silenciol ” cried Hermione, and the man’s voice was 
extinguished. He continued to mouth through the 
hole in his mask, but no sound came out; he was 
thrust aside by his fellow. 

“Petrificus Totalusl” shouted Harry, as the second 
Death Eater raised his wand. His arms and legs 
snapped together and he fell forward, facedown onto 
the rug at Harry’s feet, stiff as a board and unable to 
move at all. 

“Well done, Ha — ” 

But the Death Eater Hermione had just struck dumb 
made a sudden slashing movement with his wand 
from which flew a streak of what looked like purple 
flame. It passed right across Hermione’s chest; she 
gave a tiny “oh!” as though of surprise and then 
crumpled onto the floor where she lay motionless. 

“HERMIONE!” 

Harry fell to his knees beside her as Neville crawled 
rapidly toward her from under the desk, his wand 
held up in front of him. The Death Eater kicked out 
hard at Neville’s head as he emerged — his foot broke 
Neville’s wand in two and connected with his face — 
Neville gave a howl of pain and recoiled, clutching his 
mouth and nose. Harry twisted around, his own wand 
held high, and saw that the Death Eater had ripped 
off his mask and was pointing his wand directly at 
Harry, who recognized the long, pale, twisted face 
from the Daily Prophet: Antonin Dolohov, the wizard 
who had murdered the Prewetts. 

Dolohov grinned. With his free hand, he pointed from 
the prophecy still clutched in Harry’s hand, to 
himself, then at Hermione. Though he could no longer 



Page | lOUHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




speak his meaning could not have been clearer: Give 
me the prophecy, or you get the same as her... 



“Like you won’t kill us all the moment I hand it over 
anyway!” said Harry. 

A whine of panic inside his head was preventing him 
thinking properly. He had one hand on Hermione’s 
shoulder, which was still warm, yet did not dare look 
at her properly. Don’t let her be dead, don’t let her be 
dead, it’s my fault if she’s dead... 

“Whaddever you do, Harry,” said Neville fiercely from 
under the desk, lowering his hands to show a clearly 
broken nose and blood pouring down his mouth and 
chin, “don’d gib it to him!” 

Then there was a crash outside the door, and Dolohov 
looked over his shoulder — the baby-headed Death 
Eater had appeared in the doorway, his head bawling, 
his great fists still flailing uncontrollably at everything 
around him. 

Harry seized his chance: “PETRIFICUS TOT ALU S\” 

The spell hit Dolohov before he could block it, and he 
toppled forward across his comrade, both of them 
rigid as boards and unable to move an inch. 

“Hermione,” Harry said at once, shaking her as the 
baby-headed Death Eater blundered out of sight 
again. “Hermione, wake up...” 

“Whaddid he do to her?” said Neville, crawling out 
from under the desk again to kneel at her other side, 
blood streaming from his rapidly swelling nose. “I 
dunno...” 

Neville groped for Hermione’s wrist. 

Page | 1012Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Dat’s a pulse, Harry, I’b sure id is...” 



Such a powerful wave of relief swept through Harry 
that for a moment he felt light-headed. 

“She’s alive?” 

“Yeah, I dink so...” 

There was a pause in which Harry listened hard for 
the sounds of more footsteps, but all he could hear 
were the whimpers and blunderings of the baby 
Death Eater in the next room. 

“Neville, we’re not far from the exit,” Harry whispered. 
“We’re right next to that circular room... If we can just 
get you across it and find the right door before any 
more Death Eaters come, I’ll bet you can get 
Hermione up the corridor and into the lift... Then you 
could find someone... Raise the alarm ...” 

“And whad are you going do do?” said Neville, 
mopping his bleeding nose with his sleeve and 
frowning at Harry. 

“I’ve got to find the others,” said Harry. 

“Well, I’b going do find dem wid you,” said Neville 
firmly. 

“But Hermione — ” 

“We’ll dake her wid us,” said Neville firmly. “I’ll carry 
her — you’re bedder at fighding dem dan I ab — ” 

He stood up and seized one of Hermione’s arms, 
glared at Harry, who hesitated, then grabbed the 
other and helped hoist Hermione’s limp form over 
Neville’s shoulders. 

Page | 1013Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Wait,” said Harry, snatching up Hermione’s wand 
from the floor and shoving it into Nevilles hand, 

“you’d better take this...” 

Neville kicked aside the broken fragments of his own 
wand as they walked slowly toward the door. 

“My gran’s going do kill be,” said Neville thickly, blood 
spattering from his nose as he spoke, “dat was by 
dad’s old wand...” 

Harry stuck his head out of the door and looked 
around cautiously. The baby-headed Death Eater was 
screaming and banging into things, toppling 
grandfather clocks and overturning desks, bawling 
and confused, while the glass cabinet that Harry now 
suspected had contained Time-Turners continued to 
fall, shatter, and repair itself on the wall behind them. 

“He’s never going to notice us,” he whispered. “C’mon 
... keep close behind me...” 

They crept out of the office and back toward the door 
into the black hallway, which now seemed completely 
deserted. They walked a few steps forward, Neville 
tottering slightly due to Hermione’s weight. The door 
of the Time Room swung shut behind them, and the 
walls began to rotate once more. The recent blow on 
the back of Harry’s head seemed to have unsteadied 
him; he narrowed his eyes, swaying slightly, until the 
walls stopped moving again. With a sinking heart 
Harry saw that Hermione’s fiery crosses had faded 
from the doors. 

“So which way d’you reck — ?” 

But before they could make a decision as to which 
way to try, a door to their right sprang open and three 
people fell out of it. 

Page | 1014Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron!” croaked Harry, dashing toward them. “Ginny 
— are you all — ?” 

“Harry,” said Ron, giggling weakly, lurching forward, 
seizing the front of Harry’s robes and gazing at him 
with unfocused eyes. “There you are... Ha ha ha ... 
You look funny, Harry... You’re all messed up... 

Ron’s face was very white and something dark was 
trickling from the corner of his mouth. Next moment 
his knees had given way, but he still clutched the 
front of Harry’s robes, so that Harry was pulled into a 
kind of bow. 

“Ginny?” Harry said fearfully. “What happened?” 

But Ginny shook her head and slid down the wall into 
a sitting position, panting and holding her ankle. 

“I think her ankle’s broken, I heard something crack,” 
whispered Luna, who was bending over her and who 
alone seemed to be unhurt. “Four of them chased us 
into a dark room full of planets, it was a very odd 
place, some of the time we were just floating in the 
dark — ” 

“Harry, we saw Uranus up close!” said Ron, still 
giggling feebly. “Get it, Harry? We saw Uranus — ha 
ha ha — ” 

A bubble of blood grew at the corner of Ron’s mouth 
and burst. 

“Anyway, one of them grabbed Ginny’s foot, I used the 
Reductor Curse and blew up Pluto in his face, but ...” 

Luna gestured hopelessly at Ginny, who was 
breathing in a very shallow way, her eyes still closed. 



Page | 1015Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“And what about Ron?” said Harry fearfully, as Ron 
continued to giggle, still hanging off the front of 
Harry’s robes. 

“I don’t know what they hit him with,” said Luna 
sadly, “but he’s gone a bit funny, I could hardly get 
him along at all...” 

“Harry,” said Ron, pulling Harry’s ear down to his 
mouth and still giggling weakly, “you know who this 
girl is, Harry? She’s Loony ... Loony Lovegood ... ha 
ha ha...” 

“We’ve got to get out of here,” said Harry firmly. 

“Luna, can you help Ginny?” 

“Yes,” said Luna, sticking her wand behind her ear for 
safekeeping, putting an arm around Ginny’s waist 
and pulling her up. 

“It’s only my ankle, I can do it myself!” said Ginny 
impatiently, but next moment she had collapsed 
sideways and grabbed Luna for support. Harry pulled 
Ron’s arm over his shoulder just as, so many months 
ago, he had pulled Dudley’s. He looked around: They 
had a one-in-twelve chance of getting the exit right 
the first time — 

He heaved Ron toward a door; they were within a few 
feet of it when another door across the hall burst 
open and three Death Eaters sped into the hall, led by 
Bellatrix Lestrange. 

“ There they are!” she shrieked. 

Stunning Spells shot across the room: Harry smashed 
his way through the door ahead, flung Ron 
unceremoniously from him, and ducked back to help 
Neville in with Hermione. They were all over the 

Page | 1016Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




threshold just in time to slam the door against 
Bellatrix. 



“ Colloportus\” shouted Harry, and he heard three 
bodies slam into the door on the other side. 

“It doesn’t matter!” said a man’s voice. “There are 
other ways in — WEVE GOT THEM, THEY’RE HERE!” 

Harry spun around. They were back in the Brain 
Room and, sure enough, there were doors all around 
the walls. He could hear footsteps in the hall behind 
them as more Death Eaters came running to join the 
first. 

“Luna — Neville — help me!” 

The three of them tore around the room, sealing the 
doors as they went: Harry crashed into a table and 
rolled over the top of it in his haste to reach the next 
door. 

“ Colloportusl” 

There were footsteps running along behind the doors; 

every now and then another heavy body would launch 

itself against one, so it creaked and shuddered. Luna 

and Neville were bewitching the doors along the 

opposite wall — then, as Harry reached the very top of 

the room, he heard Luna cry, “Collo — aaaaaaaaargh 
?? 



He turned in time to see her flying through the air. 

Five Death Eaters were surging into the room through 
the door she had not reached in time; Luna hit a 
desk, slid over its surface and onto the floor on the 
other side where she lay sprawled, as still as 
Hermione. 

Page | 1017Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Get Potter!” shrieked Bellatrix, and she ran at him. 
He dodged her and sprinted back up the room; he 
was safe as long as they thought they might hit the 
prophecy — 

“Hey!” said Ron, who had staggered to his feet and 
was now tottering drunkenly toward Harry, giggling. 
“Hey, Harry, there are brains in here, ha ha ha, isn’t 
that weird, Harry?” 

“Ron, get out of the way, get down — ” 

But Ron had already pointed his wand at the tank. 

“Honest, Harry, they’re brains — look — Accio Brain\” 

The scene seemed momentarily frozen. Harry, Ginny, 
and Neville and each of the Death Eaters turned in 
spite of themselves to watch the top of the tank as a 
brain burst from the green liquid like a leaping fish. 
For a moment it seemed suspended in midair, then it 
soared toward Ron, spinning as it came, and what 
looked like ribbons of moving images flew from it, 
unraveling like rolls of film — 

“Ha ha ha, Harry, look at it — ” said Ron, watching it 
disgorge its gaudy innards. “Harry, come and touch 
it, bet it’s weird — ” 

“RON, NO!” 

Harry did not know what would happen if Ron 
touched the tentacles of thought now flying behind 
the brain, but he was sure it would not be anything 
good. He darted forward but Ron had already caught 
the brain in his outstretched hands. 



Page | 1018Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The moment they made contact with his skin, the 
tentacles began wrapping themselves around Ron’s 
arms like ropes. 

“Harry, look what’s happen — no — no, I don’t like it 
— no, stop — stop — ” 

But the thin ribbons were spinning around Ron’s 
chest now. He tugged and tore at them as the brain 
was pulled tight against him like an octopus’s body. 

“Diffindol” yelled Harry, trying to sever the feelers 
wrapping themselves tightly around Ron before his 
eyes, but they would not break. Ron fell over, still 
thrashing against his bonds. 

“Harry, it’ll suffocate him!” screamed Ginny, 
immobilized by her broken ankle on the floor — then 
a jet of red light flew from one of the Death Eater’s 
wands and hit her squarely in the face. She keeled 
over sideways and lay there unconscious. 

“ STUBEFYl” shouted Neville, wheeling around and 
waving Hermione’s wand at the oncoming Death 
Eaters. “STUBEFY, STUBEFYl” 

But nothing happened — one of the Death Eaters 
shot their own Stunning Spell at Neville; it missed 
him by inches. Harry and Neville were now the only 
two left fighting the five Death Eaters, two of whom 
sent streams of silver light like arrows past them that 
left craters in the wall behind them. Harry ran for it 
as Bellatrix Lestrange sprinted right at him. Holding 
the prophecy high above his head he sprinted back 
up the room; all he could think of doing was to draw 
the Death Eaters away from the others. 

It seemed to have worked. They streaked after him, 
knocking chairs and tables flying but not daring to 

Page | 1019Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




bewitch him in case they hurt the prophecy, and he 
dashed through the only door still open, the one 
through which the Death Eaters themselves had 
come. Inwardly praying that Neville would stay with 
Ron — find some way of releasing him — he ran a few 
feet into the new room and felt the floor vanish — 

He was falling down steep stone step after steep stone 
step, bouncing on every tier until at last, with a crash 
that knocked all the breath out of his body, he landed 
flat on his back in the sunken pit where the stone 
archway stood on its dais. The whole room was 
ringing with the Death Eaters’ laughter. He looked up 
and saw the five who had been in the Brain Room 
descending toward him, while as many more emerged 
through other doorways and began leaping from 
bench to bench toward him. Harry got to his feet 
though his legs were trembling so badly they barely 
supported him. The prophecy was still miraculously 
unbroken in his left hand, his wand clutched tightly 
in his right. He backed away, looking around, trying 
to keep all the Death Eaters within his sights. The 
back of his legs hit something solid; he had reached 
the dais where the archway stood. He climbed 
backward onto it. 

The Death Eaters all halted, gazing at him. Some were 
panting as hard as he was. One was bleeding badly; 
Dolohov, freed of the full Body-Bind, was leering, his 
wand pointing straight at Harry’s face. 

“Potter, your race is run,” drawled Lucius Malfoy, 
pulling off his mask. “Now hand me the prophecy like 
a good boy...” 

“Let — let the others go, and I’ll give it to you!” said 
Harry desperately. 

A few of the Death Eaters laughed. 

Page | 1020Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You are not in a position to bargain, Potter,” said 
Lucius Malfoy, his pale face flushed with pleasure. 

“You see, there are ten of us and only one of you ... or 
hasn’t Dumbledore ever taught you how to count?” 

“He’s dot alone!” shouted a voice from above them. 

“He’s still god be!” 

Harry’s heart sank. Neville was scrambling down the 
stone benches toward them, Hermione’s wand held 
fast in his trembling hand. 

“Neville — no — go back to Ron — ” 

“STUBEFYl” Neville shouted again, pointing his wand 
at each Death Eater in turn, “STUBEFYl. STUBE — ” 

One of the largest Death Eaters seized Neville from 
behind, pinioning his arms to his sides. He struggled 
and kicked; several of the Death Eaters laughed. 

“It’s Longbottom, isn’t it?” sneered Lucius Malfoy. 

“Well, your grandmother is used to losing family 
members to our cause... Your death will not come as 
a great shock...” 

“Longbottom?” repeated Bellatrix, and a truly evil 
smile lit her gaunt face. “Why, I have had the 
pleasure of meeting your parents, boy...” 

“I DOE YOU HAB!” roared Neville, and he fought so 
hard against his captor’s encircling grip that the 
Death Eater shouted, “Someone Stun him!” 

“No, no, no,” said Bellatrix. She looked transported, 
alive with excitement as she glanced at Harry, then 
back at Neville. “No, let’s see how long Longbottom 
lasts before he cracks like his parents... Unless Potter 
wants to give us the prophecy — ” 

Page | 1021Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“DON’D GIB ID DO DEM!” roared Neville, who seemed 
beside himself, kicking and writhing as Bellatrix drew 
nearer to him and his captor, her wand raised. 

“DON’D GIB ID DO DEM, HARRY!” 

Bellatrix raised her wand. “Cruciol” 

Neville screamed, his legs drawn up to his chest so 
that the Death Eater holding him was momentarily 
holding him off the ground. The Death Eater dropped 
him and he fell to the floor, twitching and screaming 
in agony. 

“That was just a taster!” said Bellatrix, raising her 
wand so that Neville’s screams stopped and he lay 
sobbing at her feet. She turned and gazed up at 
Harry. “Now, Potter, either give us the prophecy, or 
watch your little friend die the hard way!” 

Harry did not have to think; there was no choice. The 
prophecy was hot with the heat from his clutching 
hand as he held it out. Malfoy jumped forward to take 
it. 

Then, high above them, two more doors burst open 
and five more people sprinted into the room: Sirius, 
Lupin, Moody, Tonks, and Kingsley. 

Malfoy turned and raised his wand, but Tonks had 
already sent a Stunning Spell right at him. Harry did 
not wait to see whether it had made contact, but 
dived off the dais out of the way. The Death Eaters 
were completely distracted by the appearance of the 
members of the Order, who were now raining spells 
down upon them as they jumped from step to step 
toward the sunken floor: Through the darting bodies, 
the flashes of light, Harry could see Neville crawling 
along. He dodged another jet of red light and flung 
himself flat on the ground to reach Neville. 

Page | 1022Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you okay?” he yelled, as another spell soared 
inches over their heads. 



“Yes,” said Neville, trying to pull himself up. 

“And Ron?” 

“I dink he’s all right — he was still fighding the brain 
when I left — ” 

The stone floor between them exploded as a spell hit 
it, leaving a crater right where Neville’s hand had 
been seconds before. Both scrambled away from the 
spot, then a thick arm came out of nowhere, seized 
Harry around the neck and pulled him upright, so 
that his toes were barely touching the floor. 

“Give it to me,” growled a voice in his ear, “give me the 
prophecy — ” 

The man was pressing so tightly on Harry’s windpipe 
that he could not breathe — through watering eyes he 
saw Sirius dueling with a Death Eater some ten feet 
away. Kingsley was fighting two at once; Tonks, still 
halfway up the tiered seats, was firing spells down at 
Bellatrix — nobody seemed to realize that Harry was 
dying... He turned his wand backward toward the 
man’s side, but had no breath to utter an incantation, 
and the man’s free hand was groping toward the hand 
in which Harry was grasping the prophecy — 

“AARGH!” 

Neville had come lunging out of nowhere: Unable to 
articulate a spell, he had jabbed Hermione’s wand 
hard into the eyehole of the Death Eater’s mask. The 
man relinquished Harry at once with a howl of pain 
and Harry whirled around to face him and gasped, 
“STUPEFY]” 

Page | 1023Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The Death Eater keeled over backward and his mask 
slipped off. It was Macnair, Buckbeak’s would-be 
killer, one of his eyes now swollen and bloodshot. 

“Thanks!” Harry said to Neville, pulling him aside as 
Sirius and his Death Eater lurched past, dueling so 
fiercely that their wands were blurs. Then Harry’s foot 
made contact with something round and hard and he 
slipped — for a moment he thought he had dropped 
the prophecy, then saw Moody’s magic eye spinning 
away across the floor. 

Its owner was lying on his side, bleeding from the 
head, and his attacker was now bearing down upon 
Harry and Neville: Dolohov, his long pale face twisted 
with glee. 

“Tarantallegrcd” he shouted, his wand pointing at 
Neville, whose legs went immediately into a kind of 
frenzied tap dance, unbalancing him and causing him 
to fall to the floor again. “Now, Potter — ” 

He made the same slashing movement with his wand 
that he had used on Hermione just as Harry yelled, 
“Protego\” 

Harry felt something streak across his face like a 
blunt knife but the force of it knocked him sideways, 
and he fell over Neville’s jerking legs, but the Shield 
Charm had stopped the worst of the spell. 

Dolohov raised his wand again. “Accio Proph — ” 

Sirius hurtled out of nowhere, rammed Dolohov with 
his shoulder, and sent him flying out of the way. The 
prophecy had again flown to the tips of Harry’s fingers 
but he had managed to cling to it. Now Sirius and 
Dolohov were dueling, their wands flashing like 
swords, sparks flying from their wand tips — 

Page | 1024Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dolohov drew back his wand to make the same 
slashing movement he had used on Harry and 
Hermione. Springing up, Harry yelled, “Petrificus 
Totalusl” Once again, Dolohov’s arms and legs 
snapped together and he keeled over backward, 
landing with a crash on his back. 

“Nice one!” shouted Sirius, forcing Harry’s head down 
as a pair of Stunning Spells flew toward them. “Now I 
want you to get out of — ” 

They both ducked again. A jet of green light had 
narrowly missed Sirius; across the room Harry saw 
Tonks fall from halfway up the stone steps, her limp 
form toppling from stone seat to stone seat, and 
Bellatrix, triumphant, running back toward the fray. 

“Harry, take the prophecy, grab Neville, and run!” 
Sirius yelled, dashing to meet Bellatrix. Harry did not 
see what happened next: Kingsley swayed across his 
field of vision, battling with the pockmarked 
Rookwood, now mask-less; another jet of green light 
flew over Harry’s head as he launched himself toward 
Neville — 

“Can you stand?” he bellowed in Neville’s ear, as 
Neville’s legs jerked and twitched uncontrollably. “Put 
your arm round my neck — ” 

Neville did so — Harry heaved — Neville’s legs were 
still flying in every direction, they would not support 
him and then, out of nowhere, a man lunged at them. 
Both fell backward, Neville’s legs waving wildly like an 
overturned beetle’s, Harry with his left arm held up in 
the air to try and save the small glass ball from being 
smashed. 



Page | 1025Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“The prophecy, give me the prophecy, Potter!” snarled 
Lucius Malfoy’s voice in his ear, and Harry felt the tip 
of Malfoy’s wand pressing hard between his ribs. 

“No — get — off — me ... Neville — catch it!” 

Harry flung the prophecy across the floor, Neville 
spun himself around on his back and scooped the 
ball to his chest. Malfoy pointed the wand instead at 
Neville, but Harry jabbed his own wand back over his 
shoulder and yelled, “Impedimental” 

Malfoy was blasted off his back. As Harry scrambled 
up again he looked around and saw Malfoy smash 
into the dais on which Sirius and Bellatrix were now 
dueling. Malfoy aimed his wand at Harry and Neville 
again, but before he could draw breath to strike, 
Lupin had jumped between them. 

“Harry, round up the others and GO!” 

Harry seized Neville by the shoulder of his robes and 
lifted him bodily onto the first tier of stone steps. 
Neville’s legs twitched and jerked and would not 
support his weight. Harry heaved again with all the 
strength he possessed and they climbed another step 



A spell hit the stone bench at Harry’s heel. It 
crumbled away and he fell back to the step below: 
Neville sank to the ground, his legs still jerking and 
thrashing, and thrust the prophecy into his pocket. 

“Come on!” said Harry desperately, hauling at 
Neville’s robes. “Just try and push with your legs — ” 

He gave another stupendous heave and Neville’s robes 
tore all along the left seam — the small spun-glass 
ball dropped from his pocket and before either of 

Page | 1026Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




them could catch it, one of Neville’s floundering feet 
kicked it. It flew some ten feet to their right and 
smashed on the step beneath them. As both of them 
stared at the place where it had broken, appalled at 
what had happened, a pearly-white figure with hugely 
magnified eyes rose into the air, unnoticed by any but 
them. Harry could see its mouth moving, but in all 
the crashes and screams and yells surrounding them, 
not one word of the prophecy could he hear. The 
figure stopped speaking and dissolved into 
nothingness. 

“Harry, I’b sorry!” cried Neville, his face anguished as 
his legs continued to flounder, “I’b so sorry, Harry, I 
didn’d bean do — ■” 

“It doesn’t matter!” Harry shouted. “Just try and 
stand, let’s get out of — ” 

“ Dubbledorel” said Neville, his sweaty face suddenly 
transported, staring over Harry’s shoulder. 

“What?” 

“DUBBLEDORE!” 

Harry turned to look where Neville was staring. 

Directly above them, framed in the doorway from the 
Brain Room, stood Albus Dumbledore, his wand aloft, 
his face white and furious. Harry felt a kind of electric 
charge surge through every particle of his body — 
they were saved. 

Dumbledore sped down the steps past Neville and 
Harry, who had no more thought of leaving. 
Dumbledore was already at the foot of the steps when 
the Death Eaters nearest realized he was there. There 
were yells; one of the Death Eaters ran for it, 
scrabbling like a monkey up the stone steps opposite. 
Page | 1027Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore’s spell pulled him back as easily and 
effortlessly as though he had hooked him with an 
invisible line — 



Only one couple were still battling, apparently 
unaware of the new arrival. Harry saw Sirius duck 
Bellatrix’s jet of red light: He was laughing at her. 
“Come on, you can do better than that!” he yelled, his 
voice echoing around the cavernous room. 

The second jet of light hit him squarely on the chest. 

The laughter had not quite died from his face, but his 
eyes widened in shock. 

Harry released Neville, though he was unaware of 
doing so. He was jumping down the steps again, 
pulling out his wand, as Dumbledore turned to the 
dais too. 

It seemed to take Sirius an age to fall. His body 
curved in a graceful arc as he sank backward through 
the ragged veil hanging from the arch... 

And Harry saw the look of mingled fear and surprise 
on his godfather’s wasted, once-handsome face as he 
fell through the ancient doorway and disappeared 
behind the veil, which fluttered for a moment as 
though in a high wind and then fell back into place. 

Harry heard Bellatrix Lestrange’s triumphant scream, 
but knew it meant nothing — Sirius had only just 
fallen through the archway, he would reappear from 
the other side any second... 

But Sirius did not reappear. 

“SIRIUS!” Harry yelled, “SIRIUS!” 

Page | 1028Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had reached the floor, his breath coming in 
searing gasps. Sirius must be just behind the curtain, 
he, Harry, would pull him back out again... 

But as he reached the ground and sprinted toward 
the dais, Lupin grabbed Harry around the chest, 
holding him back. 

“There’s nothing you can do, Harry — ” 

“Get him, save him, he’s only just gone through!” 

“It’s too late, Harry — ” 

“We can still reach him — ” 

Harry struggled hard and viciously, but Lupin would 
not let go... 

“There’s nothing you can do, Harry ... nothing... He’s 
gone.” 



Page | 1029Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE ONLY ONE HE EVER FEARED 

“He hasn’t gone!” Harry yelled. 

He did not believe it, he would not believe it; still he 
fought Lupin with every bit of strength he had: Lupin 
did not understand, people hid behind that curtain, 
he had heard them whispering the first time he had 
entered the room — Sirius was hiding, simply lurking 
out of sight — 

“SIRIUS!” he bellowed, “SIRIUS!” 

“He can’t come back, Harry,” said Lupin, his voice 
breaking as he struggled to contain Harry. “He can’t 
come back, because he’s d — ” 

“HE — IS — NOT — DEAD!” roared Harry. “SIRIUS!” 

There was movement going on around them, pointless 
bustling, the flashes of more spells. To Harry it was 
meaningless noise, the deflected curses flying past 
them did not matter, nothing mattered except that 
Lupin stop pretending that Sirius, who was standing 
Page | 1030Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



feet from them behind that old curtain, was not going 
to emerge at any moment, shaking back his dark hair 
and eager to reenter the battle — 

Lupin dragged Harry away from the dais, Harry still 
staring at the archway, angry at Sirius now for 
keeping him waiting — 

But some part of him realized, even as he fought to 
break free from Lupin, that Sirius had never kept him 
waiting before... Sirius had risked everything, always, 
to see Harry, to help him... If Sirius was not 
reappearing out of that archway when Harry was 
yelling for him as though his life depended on it, the 
only possible explanation was that he could not come 
back. . . That he really was . . . 

Dumbledore had most of the remaining Death Eaters 
grouped in the middle of the room, seemingly 
immobilized by invisible ropes. Mad-Eye Moody had 
crawled across the room to where Tonks lay and was 
attempting to revive her. Behind the dais there were 
still flashes of light, grunts, and cries — Kingsley had 
run forward to continue Sirius’s duel with Bellatrix. 

“Harry?” 

Neville had slid down the stone benches one by one to 
the place where Harry stood. Harry was no longer 
struggling against Lupin, who maintained a 
precautionary grip on his arm nevertheless. 

“Harry ... I’b really sorry...” said Neville. His legs were 
still dancing uncontrollably. “Was dat man — was 
Sirius Black a — a friend of yours?” 

Harry nodded. 


