

Through the mist came a face Harry had seen once 
before on a dark, dangerous night in the Forbidden 
Forest: white-blond hair and astonishingly blue eyes, 
the head and torso of a man joined to the palomino 
body of a horse. 

“This is Firenze,” said Dumbledore happily to a 
thunderstruck Umbridge. “I think you 11 find him 
suitable.” 



Page | 762Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





THE CENTAUR AND THE SNEAK 

“I’ll bet you wish you hadn’t given up Divination now, 
don’t you, Hermione?” asked Parvati, smirking. 

It was breakfast time a few days after the sacking of 
Professor Trelawney, and Parvati was curling her 
eyelashes around her wand and examining the effect 
in the back of her spoon. They were to have their first 
lesson with Firenze that morning. 

“Not really,” said Hermione indifferently, who was 
reading the Daily Prophet “I’ve never really liked 
horses.” 

She turned a page of the newspaper, scanning its 
columns. 

“He’s not a horse, he’s a centaur!” said Lavender, 
sounding shocked. 

“A gorgeous centaur ...” sighed Parvati. 



Page | 763Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“Either way, he’s still got four legs,” said Hermione 
coolly. “Anyway, I thought you two were all upset that 
Trelawney had gone?” 

“We are!” Lavender assured her. “We went up to her 
office to see her, we took her some daffodils — not the 
honking ones that Sprout’s got, nice ones...” 

“How is she?” asked Harry. 

“Not very good, poor thing,” said Lavender 
sympathetically. “She was crying and saying she’d 
rather leave the castle forever than stay here if 
Umbridge is still here, and I don’t blame her. 

Umbridge was horrible to her, wasn’t she?” 

“I’ve got a feeling Umbridge has only just started 
being horrible,” said Hermione darkly. 

“Impossible,” said Ron, who was tucking into a large 
plate of eggs and bacon. “She can’t get any worse 
than she’s been already.” 

“You mark my words, she’s going to want revenge on 
Dumbledore for appointing a new teacher without 
consulting her,” said Hermione, closing the 
newspaper. “Especially another part-human. You saw 
the look on her face when she saw Firenze...” 

After breakfast Hermione departed for her Arithmancy 
class and Harry and Ron followed Parvati and 
Lavender into the entrance hall, heading for 
Divination. 

“Aren’t we going up to North Tower?” asked Ron, 
looking puzzled, as Parvati bypassed the marble 
staircase. 

Parvati looked scornfully over her shoulder at him. 

Page | 764Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“How d’you expect Firenze to climb that ladder? We’re 
in classroom eleven now, it was on the notice board 
yesterday.” 

Classroom eleven was situated in the ground-floor 
corridor leading off the entrance hall on the opposite 
side to the Great Hall. Harry knew it to be one of 
those classrooms that were never used regularly, and 
that it therefore had the slightly neglected feeling of a 
cupboard or storeroom. When he entered it right 
behind Ron, and found himself right in the middle of 
a forest clearing, he was therefore momentarily 
stunned. 

“What the — ?” 

The classroom floor had become springily mossy and 
trees were growing out of it; their leafy branches 
fanned across the ceiling and windows, so that the 
room was full of slanting shafts of soft, dappled, green 
light. The students who had already arrived were 
sitting on the earthy floor with their backs resting 
against tree trunks or boulders, arms wrapped 
around their knees or folded tightly across their 
chests, looking rather nervous. In the middle of the 
room, where there were no trees, stood Firenze. 

“Harry Potter,” he said, holding out a hand when 
Harry entered. 

“Er — hi,” said Harry, shaking hands with the 
centaur, who surveyed him unblinkingly through 
those astonishingly blue eyes but did not smile. “Er — 
good to see you ...” 

“And you,” said the centaur, inclining his white-blond 
head. “It was foretold that we would meet again.” 



Page | 765Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry noticed that there was the shadow of a hoof- 
shaped bruise on Firenze’s chest. As he turned to join 
the rest of the class upon the floor, he saw that they 
were all looking at him with awe, apparently deeply 
impressed that he was on speaking terms with 
Firenze, whom they seemed to find intimidating. 

When the door was closed and the last student had 
sat down upon a tree stump beside the wastepaper 
basket, Firenze gestured around the room. 

“Professor Dumbledore has kindly arranged this 
classroom for us,” said Firenze, when everyone had 
settled down, “in imitation of my natural habitat. I 
would have preferred to teach you in the Forbidden 
Forest, which was — until Monday — my home ... but 
this is not possible.” 

“Please — er — sir — ” said Parvati breathlessly, 
raising her hand, “why not? We’ve been in there with 
Hagrid, we’re not frightened!” 

“It is not a question of your bravery,” said Firenze, 
“but of my position. I can no longer return to the 
forest. My herd has banished me.” 

“Herd?” said Lavender in a confused voice, and Harry 
knew she was thinking of cows. “What — oh!” 
Comprehension dawned on her face. “There are more 
of you?” she said, stunned. 

“Did Hagrid breed you, like the thestrals?” asked 
Dean eagerly. 

Firenze turned his head very slowly to face Dean, who 
seemed to realize at once that he had said something 
very offensive. 



Page | 766Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I didn’t — I meant — sorry,” he finished in a hushed 
voice. 

“Centaurs are not the servants or playthings of 
humans,” said Firenze quietly. There was a pause, 
then Parvati raised her hand again. 

“Please, sir ... why have the other centaurs banished 
you?” 

“Because I have agreed to work for Professor 
Dumbledore,” said Firenze. “They see this as a 
betrayal of our kind.” 

Harry remembered how, nearly four years ago, the 
centaur Bane had shouted at Firenze for allowing 
Harry to ride to safety upon his back, calling him a 
“common mule.” He wondered whether it had been 
Bane who had kicked Firenze in the chest. 

“Let us begin,” said Firenze. He swished his long 
palomino tail, raised his hand toward the leafy 
canopy overhead then lowered it slowly, and as he did 
so, the light in the room dimmed, so that they now 
seemed to be sitting in a forest clearing by twilight, 
and stars emerged upon the ceiling. There were oohs 
and gasps, and Ron said audibly, “Blimey!” 

“Lie back upon the floor,” said Firenze in his calm 
voice, “and observe the heavens. Here is written, for 
those who can see, the fortune of our races.” 

Harry stretched out on his back and gazed upward at 
the ceiling. A twinkling red star winked at him from 
overhead. 

“I know that you have learned the names of the 
planets and their moons in Astronomy,” said Firenze’s 
calm voice, “and that you have mapped the stars’ 

Page | 767Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




progress through the heavens. Centaurs have 
unraveled the mysteries of these movements over 
centuries. Our findings teach us that the future may 
be glimpsed in the sky above us...” 

“Professor Trelawney did Astrology with us!” said 
Parvati excitedly, raising her hand in front of her so 
that it stuck up in the air as she lay on her back. 
“Mars causes accidents and burns and things like 
that, and when it makes an angle to Saturn, like now” 
— she drew a right angle in the air above her — “that 
means that people need to be extra careful when 
handling hot things — ” 

“That,” said Firenze calmly, “is human nonsense.” 

Parvati’s hand fell limply to her side. 

“Trivial hurts, tiny human accidents,” said Firenze, as 
his hooves thudded over the mossy floor. “These are 
of no more significance than the scurryings of ants to 
the wide universe, and are unaffected by planetary 
movements.” 

“Professor Trelawney — ” began Parvati, in a hurt and 
indignant voice. 

“ — is a human,” said Firenze simply. “And is 
therefore blinkered and fettered by the limitations of 
your kind.” 

Harry turned his head very slightly to look at Parvati. 
She looked very offended, as did several of the people 
surrounding her. 

“Sibyll Trelawney may have Seen, I do not know,” 
continued Firenze, and Harry heard the swishing of 
his tail again as he walked up and down before them, 
“but she wastes her time, in the main, on the self- 

P a g e | 768Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




flattering nonsense humans call fortune-telling. I, 
however, am here to explain the wisdom of centaurs, 
which is impersonal and impartial. We watch the 
skies for the great tides of evil or change that are 
sometimes marked there. It may take ten years to be 
sure of what we are seeing.” 

Firenze pointed to the red star directly above Harry. 

“In the past decade, the indications have been that 
Wizard-kind is living through nothing more than a 
brief calm between two wars. Mars, bringer of battle, 
shines brightly above us, suggesting that the fight 
must break out again soon. How soon, centaurs may 
attempt to divine by the burning of certain herbs and 
leaves, by the observation of fume and flame...” 

It was the most unusual lesson Harry had ever 
attended. They did indeed burn sage and mallowsweet 
there on the classroom floor, and Firenze told them to 
look for certain shapes and symbols in the pungent 
fumes, but he seemed perfectly unconcerned that not 
one of them could see any of the signs he described, 
telling them that humans were hardly ever good at 
this, that it took centaurs years and years to become 
competent, and finished by telling them that it was 
foolish to put too much faith in such things anyway, 
because even centaurs sometimes read them wrongly. 
He was nothing like any human teacher Harry had 
ever had. His priority did not seem to be to teach 
them what he knew, but rather to impress upon them 
that nothing, not even centaurs’ knowledge, was 
foolproof. 

“He’s not very definite on anything, is he?” said Ron 
in a low voice, as they put out their mallowsweet fire. 
“I mean, I could do with a few more details about this 
war we’re about to have, couldn’t you?” 



Page | 769Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The bell rang right outside the classroom door and 
everyone jumped; Harry had completely forgotten that 
they were still inside the castle, quite convinced that 
he was really in the forest. The class filed out, looking 
slightly perplexed; Harry and Ron were on the point of 
following them when Firenze called, “Harry Potter, a 
word, please.” 

Harry turned. The centaur advanced a little toward 
him. Ron hesitated. 

“You may stay,” Firenze told him. “But close the door, 
please.” 

Ron hastened to obey. 

“Harry Potter, you are a friend of Hagrid’s, are you 
not?” said the centaur. 

“Yes,” said Harry. 

“Then give him a warning from me. His attempt is not 
working. He would do better to abandon it.” 

“His attempt is not working?” Harry repeated blankly. 

“And he would do better to abandon it,” said Firenze, 
nodding. “I would warn Hagrid myself, but I am 
banished — it would be unwise for me to go too near 
the forest now — Hagrid has troubles enough, 
without a centaurs’ battle.” 

“But — what’s Hagrid attempting to do?” said Harry 
nervously. 

Firenze looked at Harry impassively. 

“Hagrid has recently rendered me a great service,” 
said Firenze, “and he has long since earned my 

Page | 770Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




respect for the care he shows all living creatures. I 
shall not betray his secret. But he must be brought to 
his senses. The attempt is not working. Tell him, 
Harry Potter. Good day to you.” 



The happiness Harry had felt in the aftermath of The 
Quibbler interview had long since evaporated. As a 
dull March blurred into a squally April, his life 
seemed to have become one long series of worries and 
problems again. 

Umbridge had continued attending all Care of Magical 
Creatures lessons, so it had been very difficult to 
deliver Firenze’s warning to Hagrid. At last Harry had 
managed it by pretending he had lost his copy of 
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and 
doubling back after class one day. When he passed on 
Firenze’s message, Hagrid gazed at him for a moment 
through his puffy, blackened eyes, apparently taken 
aback. Then he seemed to pull himself together. 

“Nice bloke, Firenze,” he said gruffly, “but he don’ 
know what he’s talkin’ abou’ on this. The attemp’s 
cornin’ on fine.” 

“Hagrid, what’re you up to?” asked Harry seriously. 
“Because you’ve got to be careful, Umbridge has 
already sacked Trelawney and if you ask me, she’s on 
a roll. If you’re doing anything you shouldn’t be — ” 

“There’s things more importan’ than keepin’ a job,” 
said Hagrid, though his hands shook slightly as he 
said this and a basin full of knarl droppings crashed 
to the floor. “Don’ worry abou’ me, Harry, jus’ get 
along now, there’s a good lad...” 



Page | 771Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had no choice but to leave Hagrid mopping up 
the dung all over his floor, but he felt thoroughly 
dispirited as he trudged back up to the castle. 

Meanwhile, as the teachers and Hermione persisted 
in reminding them, the O.W.L.s were drawing ever 
nearer. All the fifth years were suffering from stress to 
some degree, but Hannah Abbott became the first to 
receive a Calming Draught from Madam Pomfrey after 
she burst into tears during Herbology and sobbed 
that she was too stupid to take exams and wanted to 
leave school now. 

If it had not been for the D.A. lessons, Harry thought 
he would have been extremely unhappy. He 
sometimes felt that he was living for the hours he 
spent in the Room of Requirement, working hard but 
thoroughly enjoying himself at the same time, 
swelling with pride as he looked around at his fellow 
D.A. members and saw how far they had come. 

Indeed, Harry sometimes wondered how Umbridge 
was going to react when all the members of the D.A. 
received “Outstanding” in their Defense Against the 
Dark Arts O.W.L.s. 

They had finally started work on Patronuses, which 
everybody had been very keen to practice, though as 
Harry kept reminding them, producing a Patronus in 
the middle of a brightly lit classroom when they were 
not under threat was very different to producing it 
when confronted by something like a dementor. 

“Oh, don’t be such a killjoy,” said Cho brightly, 
watching her silvery swan-shaped Patronus soar 
around the Room of Requirement during their last 
lesson before Easter. “They’re so pretty!” 

“They’re not supposed to be pretty, they’re supposed 
to protect you,” said Harry patiently. “What we really 

Page | 772Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




need is a boggart or something; that’s how I learned, I 
had to conjure a Patronus while the boggart was 
pretending to be a dementor — ” 

“But that would be really scary!” said Lavender, who 
was shooting puffs of silver vapor out of the end of 
her wand. “And I still — can’t — do it!” she added 
angrily. 

Neville was having trouble too. His face was screwed 
up in concentration, but only feeble wisps of silver 
smoke issued from his wand tip. 

“You’ve got to think of something happy,” Harry 
reminded him. 

“I’m trying,” said Neville miserably, who was trying so 
hard his round face was actually shining with sweat. 

“Harry, I think I’m doing it!” yelled Seamus, who had 
been brought along to his first ever D.A. meeting by 
Dean. “Look — ah — it’s gone... But it was definitely 
something hairy, Harry!” 

Hermione’s Patronus, a shining silver otter, was 
gamboling around her. 

“They are sort of nice, aren’t they?” she said, looking 
at it fondly. 

The door of the Room of Requirement opened and 
then closed again; Harry looked around to see who 
had entered, but there did not seem to be anybody 
there. It was a few moments before he realized that 
the people close to the door had fallen silent. Next 
thing he knew, something was tugging at his robes 
somewhere near the knee. He looked down and saw, 
to his very great astonishment, Dobby the house-elf 
peering up at him from beneath his usual eight hats. 
Page | 773Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Hi, Dobby!” he said. “What are you — what’s wrong?” 

For the elf’s eyes were wide with terror and he was 
shaking. The members of the D.A. closest to Harry 
had fallen silent now: Everybody in the room was 
watching Dobby. The few Patronuses people had 
managed to conjure faded away into silver mist, 
leaving the room looking much darker than before. 

“Harry Potter, sir ...” squeaked the elf, trembling from 
head to foot, “Harry Potter, sir ... Dobby has come to 
warn you . . . but the house-elves have been warned 
not to tell ...” 

He ran headfirst at the wall: Harry, who had some 
experience of Dobby’s habits of self-punishment, 
made to seize him, but Dobby merely bounced off the 
stone, cushioned by his eight hats. Hermione and a 
few of the other girls let out squeaks of fear and 
sympathy. 

“What’s happened, Dobby?” Harry asked, grabbing 
the elf’s tiny arm and holding him away from 
anything with which he might seek to hurt himself. 

“Harry Potter ... she ... she ...” 

Dobby hit himself hard on the nose with his free fist: 
Harry seized that too. 

“Who’s ‘she,’ Dobby?” 

But he thought he knew — surely only one “she” 
could induce such fear in Dobby? The elf looked up at 
him, slightly cross-eyed, and mouthed wordlessly. 

“Umbridge?” asked Harry, horrified. 



Page | 774Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby nodded, then tried to bang his head off Harry’s 
knees; Harry held him at bay. 



“What about her? Dobby — she hasn’t found out 
about this — about us — about the D.A.?” 

He read the answer in the elf’s stricken face. His 
hands held fast by Harry, the elf tried to kick himself 
and fell to the floor. 

“Is she coming?” Harry asked quietly. 

Dobby let out a howl, and began beating his bare feet 
hard on the floor. “Yes, Harry Potter, yes!” 

Harry straightened up and looked around at the 
motionless, terrified people gazing at the thrashing 
elf. 

“WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?” Harry bellowed. 
“RUN!” 

They all pelted toward the exit at once, forming a 
scrum at the door, then people burst through; Harry 
could hear them sprinting along the corridors and 
hoped they had the sense not to try and make it all 
the way to their dormitories. It was only ten to nine, if 
they just took refuge in the library or the Owlery, 
which were both nearer — 

“Harry, come on!” shrieked Hermione from the center 
of the knot of people now fighting to get out. 

He scooped up Dobby, who was still attempting to do 
himself serious injury, and ran with the elf in his 
arms to join the back of the queue. 

“Dobby — this is an order — get back down to the 
kitchen with the other elves, and if she asks you 

Page | 775Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




whether you warned me, lie and say no!” said Harry. 
“And I forbid you to hurt yourself!” he added, 
dropping the elf as he made it over the threshold at 
last and slamming the door behind him. 

“Thank you, Harry Potter!” squeaked Dobby, and he 
streaked off. Harry glanced left and right, the others 
were all moving so fast that he caught only glimpses 
of flying heels at either end of the corridor before they 
vanished. He started to run right; there was a boys’ 
bathroom up ahead, he could pretend he’d been in 
there all the time if he could just reach it — 

“AAARGH!” 

Something caught him around the ankles and he fell 
spectacularly, skidding along on his front for six feet 
before coming to a halt. Someone behind him was 
laughing. He rolled over onto his back and saw Malfoy 
concealed in a niche beneath an ugly dragon-shaped 
vase. 

“Trip Jinx, Potter!” he said. “Hey, Professor — 
PROFESSOR! I’ve got one!” 

Umbridge came bustling around the far corner, 
breathless but wearing a delighted smile. 

“It’s him!” she said jubilantly at the sight of Harry on 
the floor. “Excellent, Draco, excellent, oh, very good — 
fifty points to Slytherin! I’ll take him from here... 

Stand up, Potter!” 

Harry got to his feet, glaring at the pair of them. He 
had never seen Umbridge looking so happy. She 
seized his arm in a vicelike grip and turned, beaming 
broadly, to Malfoy. “You hop along and see if you can 
round up anymore of them, Draco,” she said. “Tell the 
others to look in the library — anybody out of breath 
Page | 776Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




— check the bathrooms, Miss Parkinson can do the 
girls’ ones — off you go — and you,” she added in her 
softest, most dangerous voice, as Malfoy walked away. 
“You can come with me to the headmaster’s office, 
Potter.” 

They were at the stone gargoyle within minutes. Harry 
wondered how many of the others had been caught. 

He thought of Ron — Mrs. Weasley would kill him — 
and of how Hermione would feel if she was expelled 
before she could take her O.W.L.s. And it had been 
Seamus’s very first meeting ... and Neville had been 
getting so good... 

“Fizzing Whizbee,” sang Umbridge, and the stone 
gargoyle jumped aside, the wall behind split open, 
and they ascended the moving stone staircase. They 
reached the polished door with the griffin knocker, 
but Umbridge did not bother to knock, she strode 
straight inside, still holding tight to Harry. 

The office was full of people. Dumbledore was sitting 
behind his desk, his expression serene, the tips of his 
long fingers together. Professor McGonagall stood 
rigidly beside him, her face extremely tense. Cornelius 
Fudge, Minister of Magic, was rocking backward and 
forward on his toes beside the fire, apparently 
immensely pleased with the situation. Kingsley 
Shacklebolt and a tough-looking wizard Harry did not 
recognize with very short, wiry hair were positioned 
on either side of the door like guards, and the 
freckled, bespectacled form of Percy Weasley hovered 
excitedly beside the wall, a quill and a heavy scroll of 
parchment in his hands, apparently poised to take 
notes. 

The portraits of old headmasters and mistresses were 
not shamming sleep tonight. All of them were 
watching what was happening below, alert and 

Page | 777Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




serious. As Harry entered, a few flitted into 
neighboring frames and whispered urgently into their 
neighbors’ ears. 

Harry pulled himself free of Umbridge’s grasp as the 
door swung shut behind them. Cornelius Fudge was 
glaring at him with a kind of vicious satisfaction upon 
his face. 

“Well,” he said. “Well, well, well ...” 

Harry replied with the dirtiest look he could muster. 
His heart drummed madly inside him, but his brain 
was oddly cool and clear. 

“He was heading back to Gryffindor Tower,” said 
Umbridge. There was an indecent excitement in her 
voice, the same callous pleasure Harry had heard as 
she watched Professor Trelawney dissolving with 
misery in the entrance hall. “The Malfoy boy cornered 
him.” 

“Did he, did he?” said Fudge appreciatively. “I must 
remember to tell Lucius. Well, Potter ... I expect you 
know why you are here?” 

Harry fully intended to respond with a defiant “yes”: 
His mouth had opened and the word was half formed 
when he caught sight of Dumbledore’s face. 
Dumbledore was not looking directly at Harry; his 
eyes were fixed upon a point just over his shoulder, 
but as Harry stared at him, he shook his head a 
fraction of an inch to each side. 

Harry changed direction mid- word. 

“Yeh — no.” 

“I beg your pardon?” said Fudge. 

Page | 778Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry, firmly. 

“You don’t know why you are here?” 

“No, I don’t,” said Harry. 

Fudge looked incredulously from Harry to Professor 
Umbridge; Harry took advantage of his momentary 
inattention to steal another quick look at 
Dumbledore, who gave the carpet the tiniest of nods 
and the shadow of a wink. 

“So you have no idea,” said Fudge in a voice positively 
sagging with sarcasm, “why Professor Umbridge has 
brought you to this office? You are not aware that you 
have broken any school rules?” 

“School rules?” said Harry. “No.” 

“Or Ministry decrees?” amended Fudge angrily. 

“Not that I’m aware of,” said Harry blandly. 

His heart was still hammering very fast. It was almost 
worth telling these lies to watch Fudge’s blood 
pressure rising, but he could not see how on earth he 
would get away with them. If somebody had tipped off 
Umbridge about the D.A. then he, the leader, might 
as well be packing his trunk right now. 

“So it’s news to you, is it,” said Fudge, his voice now 
thick with anger, “that an illegal student organization 
has been discovered within this school?” 

“Yes, it is,” said Harry, hoisting an unconvincing look 
of innocent surprise onto his face. 



Page | 779Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I think, Minister,” said Umbridge silkily from beside 
him, “we might make better progress if I fetch our 
informant.” 

“Yes, yes, do,” said Fudge, nodding, and he glanced 
maliciously at Dumbledore as Umbridge left the room. 
“There’s nothing like a good witness, is there, 
Dumbledore?” 

“Nothing at all, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore gravely, 
inclining his head. 

There was a wait of several minutes, in which nobody 
looked at each other, then Harry heard the door open 
behind him. Umbridge moved past him into the room, 
gripping by the shoulder Cho’s curly-haired friend 
Marietta, who was hiding her face in her hands. 

“Don’t be scared, dear, don’t be frightened,” said 
Professor Umbridge softly, patting her on the back, 
“it’s quite all right, now. You have done the right 
thing. The minister is very pleased with you. He’ll be 
telling your mother what a good girl you’ve been. 
Marietta’s mother, Minister,” she added, looking up at 
Fudge, “is Madam Edgecombe from the Department of 
Magical Transportation. Floo Network office — she’s 
been helping us police the Hogwarts fires, you know.” 

“Jolly good, jolly good!” said Fudge heartily. “Like 
mother, like daughter, eh? Well, come on, now, dear, 
look up, don’t be shy, let’s hear what you’ve got to — 
galloping gargoyles!” 

As Marietta raised her head, Fudge leapt backward in 
shock, nearly landing himself in the fire. He cursed 
and stamped on the hem of his cloak, which had 
started to smoke, and Marietta gave a wail and pulled 
the neck of her robes right up to her eyes, but not 
before the whole room had seen that her face was 
Page | 780Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




horribly disfigured by a series of close- set purple 
pustules that had spread across her nose and cheeks 
to form the word “SNEAK.” 



“Never mind the spots now, dear,” said Umbridge 
impatiently, “just take your robes away from your 
mouth and tell the Minister — ” 

But Marietta gave another muffled wail and shook her 
head frantically. 

“Oh, very well, you silly girl, I’ll tell him,” snapped 
Umbridge. She hitched her sickly smile back onto her 
face and said, “Well, Minister, Miss Edgecombe here 
came to my office shortly after dinner this evening 
and told me she had something she wanted to tell me. 
She said that if I proceeded to a secret room on the 
seventh floor, sometimes known as the Room of 
Requirement, I would find out something to my 
advantage. I questioned her a little further and she 
admitted that there was to be some kind of meeting 
there. Unfortunately at that point this hex,” she 
waved impatiently at Marietta’s concealed face, “came 
into operation and upon catching sight of her face in 
my mirror the girl became too distressed to tell me 
any more.” 

“Well, now,” said Fudge, fixing Marietta with what he 
evidently imagined was a kind and fatherly look. “It is 
very brave of you, my dear, coming to tell Professor 
Umbridge, you did exactly the right thing. Now, will 
you tell me what happened at this meeting? What was 
its purpose? Who was there?” 

But Marietta would not speak. She merely shook her 
head again, her eyes wide and fearful. 



Page | 781Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Haven’t we got a counterjinx for this?” Fudge asked 
Umbridge impatiently, gesturing at Marietta’s face. 

“So she can speak freely?” 

“I have not yet managed to find one,” Umbridge 
admitted grudgingly, and Harry felt a surge of pride in 
Hermione’s jinxing ability. “But it doesn’t matter if 
she won’t speak, I can take up the story from here. 

“You will remember, Minister, that I sent you a report 
back in October that Potter had met a number of 
fellow students in the Hog’s Head in Hogsmeade — ” 

“And what is your evidence for that?” cut in Professor 
McGonagall. 

“I have testimony from Willy Widdershins, Minerva, 
who happened to be in the bar at the time. He was 
heavily bandaged, it is true, but his hearing was quite 
unimpaired,” said Umbridge smugly. “He heard every 
word Potter said and hastened straight to the school 
to report to me — ” 

“Oh, so that’s why he wasn’t prosecuted for setting up 
all those regurgitating toilets!” said Professor 
McGonagall, raising her eyebrows. “What an 
interesting insight into our justice system!” 

“Blatant corruption!” roared the portrait of the 
corpulent, red-nosed wizard on the wall behind 
Dumbledore’s desk. “The Ministry did not cut deals 
with petty criminals in my day, no sir, they did not!” 

“Thank you, Fortescue, that will do,” said 
Dumbledore softly. 

“The purpose of Potter’s meeting with these students,” 
continued Professor Umbridge, “was to persuade 
them to join an illegal society, whose aim was to learn 

Page | 782Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




spells and curses the Ministry has decided are 
inappropriate for school-age — ” 

“I think you 11 find you’re wrong there, Dolores,” said 
Dumbledore quietly, peering at her over the half- 
moon spectacles perched halfway down his crooked 
nose. 

Harry stared at him. He could not see how 
Dumbledore was going to talk him out of this one; if 
Willy Widdershins had indeed heard every word he 
said in the Hog’s Head there was simply no escaping 
it. 

“Oho!” said Fudge, bouncing up and down on the 
balls of his feet again. “Yes, do let’s hear the latest 
cock-and-bull story designed to pull Potter out of 
trouble! Go on, then, Dumbledore, go on — Willy 
Widdershins was lying, was he? Or was it Potter’s 
identical twin in the Hog’s Head that day? Or is there 
the usual simple explanation involving a reversal of 
time, a dead man coming back to life, and a couple of 
invisible dementors?” 

Percy Weasley let out a hearty laugh. 

“Oh, very good, Minister, very good!” 

Harry could have kicked him. Then he saw, to his 
astonishment, that Dumbledore was smiling gently 
too. 

“Cornelius, I do not deny — and nor, I am sure, does 
Harry — that he was in the Hog’s Head that day, nor 
that he was trying to recruit students to a Defense 
Against the Dark Arts group. I am merely pointing out 
that Dolores is quite wrong to suggest that such a 
group was, at that time, illegal. If you remember, the 
Ministry decree banning all student societies was not 
Page | 783Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




put into effect until two days after Harry’s Hogsmeade 
meeting, so he was not breaking any rules in the 
Hog’s Head at all.” 

Percy looked as though he had been struck in the 
face by something very heavy. Fudge remained 
motionless in mid-bounce, his mouth hanging open. 

Umbridge recovered first. 

“That’s all very fine, Headmaster,” she said, smiling 
sweetly. “But we are now nearly six months on from 
the introduction of Educational Decree Number 
Twenty-four. If the first meeting was not illegal, all 
those that have happened since most certainly are.” 

“Well,” said Dumbledore, surveying her with polite 
interest over the top of his interlocked fingers, “they 
certainly would be, if they had continued after the 
decree came into effect. Do you have any evidence 
that these meetings continued?” 

As Dumbledore spoke, Harry heard a rustle behind 
him and rather thought Kingsley whispered 
something. He could have sworn too that he felt 
something brush against his side, a gentle something 
like a draft or bird wings, but looking down he saw 
nothing there. 

“Evidence?” repeated Umbridge with that horrible 
wide toadlike smile. “Have you not been listening, 
Dumbledore? Why do you think Miss Edgecombe is 
here?” 

“Oh, can she tell us about six months’ worth of 
meetings?” said Dumbledore, raising his eyebrows. “I 
was under the impression that she was merely 
reporting a meeting tonight.” 



Page | 784Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Miss Edgecombe,” said Umbridge at once, “tell us 
