ghosts provided food fit for living people at their 
parties.” 

“We weren’t hungry,” said Ron loudly as his stomach 
gave a huge rumble. 

Snape’s nasty smile widened. 

“I suggest, Headmaster, that Potter is not being 
entirely truthful,” he said. “It might be a good idea if 
he were deprived of certain privileges until he is ready 
to tell us the whole story. I personally feel he should 
be taken off the Gryffindor Quidditch team until he is 
ready to be honest.” 

“Really, Severus,” said Professor McGonagall sharply, 
“I see no reason to stop the boy playing Quidditch. 
This cat wasn’t hit over the head with a broomstick. 
There is no evidence at all that Potter has done 
anything wrong.” 

Page | 160 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore was giving Harry a searching look. His 
twinkling light-blue gaze made Harry feel as though 
he were being X-rayed. 

“Innocent until proven guilty, Severus,” he said 
firmly. 

Snape looked furious. So did Filch. 

“My cat has been Petrified!” he shrieked, his eyes 
popping. “I want to see some punishmenti” 

“We will be able to cure her, Argus,” said Dumbledore 
patiently. “Professer Sprout recently managed to 
procure some Mandrakes. As soon as they have 
reached their full size, I will have a potion made that 
will revive Mrs. Norris.” 

“I’ll make it,” Lockhart butted in. “I must have done it 
a hundred times. I could whip up a Mandrake 
Restorative Draught in my sleep — ” 

“Excuse me,” said Snape icily. “But I believe I am the 
Potions master at this school.” 

There was a very awkward pause. 

“You may go,” Dumbledore said to Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione. 

They went, as quickly as they could without actually 
running. When they were a floor up from Lockhart’s 
office, they turned into an empty classroom and 
closed the door quietly behind them. Harry squinted 
at his friends’ darkened faces. 

“D’you think I should have told them about that voice 
I heard?” 



Page | 161 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Ron, without hesitation. “Hearing voices no 
one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the 
wizarding world.” 

Something in Ron’s voice made Harry ask, “You do 
believe me, don’t you?” 

“ ’Course I do,” said Ron quickly. “But — you must 
admit it’s weird. ...” 

“I know it’s weird,” said Harry. “The whole thing’s 
weird. What was that writing on the wall about? The 
Chamber Has Been Opened’. ... What’s that supposed 
to mean?” 

“You know, it rings a sort of bell,” said Ron slowly. “I 
think someone told me a story about a secret 
chamber at Hogwarts once ... might’ve been Bill. ...” 

“And what on earth’s a Squib?” said Harry. 

To his surprise, Ron stifled a snigger. 

“Well — it’s not funny really — but as it’s Filch,” he 
said. “A Squib is someone who was born into a 
wizarding family but hasn’t got any magic powers. 
Kind of the opposite of Muggle-born wizards, but 
Squibs are quite unusual. If Filch ’s trying to learn 
magic from a Kwikspell course, I reckon he must be a 
Squib. It would explain a lot. Like why he hates 
students so much.” Ron gave a satisfied smile. “He’s 
bitter.” 

A clock chimed somewhere. 

“Midnight,” said Harry. “We’d better get to bed before 
Snape comes along and tries to frame us for 
something else.” 



Page | 162 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




For a few days, the school could talk of little else but 
the attack on Mrs. Norris. Filch kept it fresh in 
everyone’s minds by pacing the spot where she had 
been attacked, as though he thought the attacker 
might come back. Harry had seen him scrubbing the 
message on the wall with Mrs. Skower’s All-Purpose 
Magical Mess Remover, but to no effect; the words 
still gleamed as brightly as ever on the stone. When 
Filch wasn’t guarding the scene of the crime, he was 
skulking red-eyed through the corridors, lunging out 
at unsuspecting students and trying to put them in 
detention for things like “breathing loudly” and 
“looking happy.” 

Ginny Weasley seemed very disturbed by Mrs. 

Norris’s fate. According to Ron, she was a great cat 
lover. 

“But you haven’t really got to know Mrs. Norris,” Ron 
told her bracingly. “Honestly, we’re much better off 
without her.” Ginny ’s lip trembled. “Stuff like this 
doesn’t often happen at Hogwarts,” Ron assured her. 
“They’ll catch the maniac who did it and have him out 
of here in no time. I just hope he’s got time to Petrify 
Filch before he’s expelled. I’m only joking — ” Ron 
added hastily as Ginny blanched. 

The attack had also had an effect on Hermione. It was 
quite usual for Hermione to spend a lot of time 
reading, but she was now doing almost nothing else. 
Nor could Harry and Ron get much response from her 
when they asked what she was up to, and not until 
the following Wednesday did they find out. 

Harry had been held back in Potions, where Snape 
had made him stay behind to scrape tubeworms off 



Page | 163 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




the desks. After a hurried lunch, he went upstairs to 
meet Ron in the library, and saw Justin Finch- 
Fletchley, the Hufflepuff boy from Herbology, coming 
toward him. Harry had just opened his mouth to say 
hello when Justin caught sight of him, turned 
abruptly, and sped off in the opposite direction. 

Harry found Ron at the back of the library, measuring 
his History of Magic homework. Professor Binns had 
asked for a three-foot-long composition on “The 
Medieval Assembly of European Wizards.” 

“I don’t believe it, I’m still eight inches short. ...” said 
Ron furiously, letting go of his parchment, which 
sprang back into a roll. “And Hermione’s done four 
feet seven inches and her writing’s tiny.” 

“Where is she?” asked Harry, grabbing the tape 
measure and unrolling his own homework. 

“Somewhere over there,” said Ron, pointing along the 
shelves. “Looking for another book. I think she’s 
trying to read the whole library before Christmas.” 

Harry told Ron about Justin Finch-Fletchley running 
away from him. 

“Dunno why you care. I thought he was a bit of an 
idiot,” said Ron, scribbling away, making his writing 
as large as possible. “All that junk about Lockhart 
being so great — ” 

Hermione emerged from between the bookshelves. 

She looked irritable and at last seemed ready to talk 
to them. 

“All the copies of Hogwarts, A History have been taken 
out,” she said, sitting down next to Harry and Ron. 
“And there’s a two-week waiting list. I wish I hadn’t 

Page | 164 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




left my copy at home, but I couldn’t fit it in my trunk 
with all the Lockhart books.” 



“Why do you want it?” said Harry. 

“The same reason everyone else wants it,” said 
Hermione, “to read up on the legend of the Chamber 
of Secrets.” 

“What’s that?” said Harry quickly. 

“That’s just it. I can’t remember,” said Hermione, 
biting her lip. “And I can’t find the story anywhere 
else — ” 

“Hermione, let me read your composition,” said Ron 
desperately, checking his watch. 

“No, I won’t,” said Hermione, suddenly severe. “You’ve 
had ten days to finish it — ” 

“I only need another two inches, come on — ” 

The bell rang. Ron and Hermione led the way to 
History of Magic, bickering. 

History of Magic was the dullest subject on their 
schedule. Professor Binns, who taught it, was their 
only ghost teacher, and the most exciting thing that 
ever happened in his classes was his entering the 
room through the blackboard. Ancient and shriveled, 
many people said he hadn’t noticed he was dead. He 
had simply got up to teach one day and left his body 
behind him in an armchair in front of the staffroom 
fire; his routine had not varied in the slightest since. 

Today was as boring as ever. Professor Binns opened 
his notes and began to read in a flat drone like an old 
vacuum cleaner until nearly everyone in the class was 

Page | 165 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




in a deep stupor, occasionally coming to long enough 
to copy down a name or date, then falling asleep 
again. He had been speaking for half an hour when 
something happened that had never happened before. 
Hermione put up her hand. 

Professor Binns, glancing up in the middle of a deadly 
dull lecture on the International Warlock Convention 
of 1289, looked amazed. 

“Miss — er — ?” 

“Granger, Professor. I was wondering if you could tell 
us anything about the Chamber of Secrets,” said 
Hermione in a clear voice. 

Dean Thomas, who had been sitting with his mouth 
hanging open, gazing out of the window, jerked out of 
his trance; Lavender Brown’s head came up off her 
arms and Neville Longbottom’s elbow slipped off his 
desk. 

Professor Binns blinked. 

“My subject is History of Magic,” he said in his dry, 
wheezy voice. “I deal with, facts, Miss Granger, not 
myths and legends.” He cleared his throat with a 
small noise like chalk snapping and continued, “In 
September of that year, a subcommittee of Sardinian 
sorcerers — ” 

He stuttered to a halt. Hermione’s hand was waving 
in the air again. 

“Miss Grant?” 

“Please, sir, don’t legends always have a basis in 
fact?” 



Page | 166 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Binns was looking at her in such 
amazement, Harry was sure no student had ever 
interrupted him before, alive or dead. 

“Well,” said Professor Binns slowly, “yes, one could 
argue that, I suppose.” He peered at Hermione as 
though he had never seen a student properly before. 
“However, the legend of which you speak is such a 
very sensational, even ludicrous tale — ” 

But the whole class was now hanging on Professor 
Binns ’s every word. He looked dimly at them all, every 
face turned to his. Harry could tell he was completely 
thrown by such an unusual show of interest. 

“Oh, very well,” he said slowly. “Let me see ... the 
Chamber of Secrets . . . 

“You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded 
over a thousand years ago — the precise date is 
uncertain — by the four greatest witches and wizards 
of the age. The four school Houses are named after 
them: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena 
Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin. They built this 
castle together, far from prying Muggle eyes, for it was 
an age when magic was feared by common people, 
and witches and wizards suffered much persecution.” 

He paused, gazed blearily around the room, and 
continued. 

“For a few years, the founders worked in harmony 
together, seeking out youngsters who showed signs of 
magic and bringing them to the castle to be educated. 
But then disagreements sprang up between them. A 
rift began to grow between Slytherin and the others. 
Slytherin wished to be more selective about the 
students admitted to Hogwarts. He believed that 
magical learning should be kept within all-magic 
Page | 167 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




families. He disliked taking students of Muggle 
parentage, believing them to be untrustworthy. After 
a while, there was a serious argument on the subject 
between Slytherin and Gryffindor, and Slytherin left 
the school.” 

Professor Binns paused again, pursing his lips, 
looking like a wrinkled old tortoise. 

“Reliable historical sources tell us this much,” he 
said. “But these honest facts have been obscured by 
the fanciful legend of the Chamber of Secrets. The 
story goes that Slytherin had built a hidden chamber 
in the castle, of which the other founders knew 
nothing. 

“Slytherin, according to the legend, sealed the 
Chamber of Secrets so that none would be able to 
open it until his own true heir arrived at the school. 
The heir alone would be able to unseal the Chamber 
of Secrets, unleash the horror within, and use it to 
purge the school of all who were unworthy to study 
magic.” 

There was silence as he finished telling the story, but 
it wasn’t the usual, sleepy silence that filled Professor 
Binns ’s classes. There was unease in the air as 
everyone continued to watch him, hoping for more. 
Professor Binns looked faintly annoyed. 

“The whole thing is arrant nonsense, of course,” he 
said. “Naturally, the school has been searched for 
evidence of such a chamber, many times, by the most 
learned witches and wizards. It does not exist. A tale 
told to frighten the gullible.” 

Hermione’s hand was back in the air. 



Page | 168 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Sir — what exactly do you mean by the ‘horror 
within’ the Chamber?” 

“That is believed to be some sort of monster, which 
the Heir of Slytherin alone can control,” said Professor 
Binns in his dry, reedy voice. 

The class exchanged nervous looks. 

“I tell you, the thing does not exist,” said Professor 
Binns, shuffling his notes. “There is no Chamber and 
no monster.” 

“But, sir,” said Seamus Finnigan, “if the Chamber can 
only be opened by Slytherin’s true heir, no one else 
would be able to find it, would they?” 

“Nonsense, O’Flaherty,” said Professor Binns in an 
aggravated tone. “If a long succession of Hogwarts 
headmasters and headmistresses haven’t found the 
thing — ” 

“But, Professor,” piped up Parvati Patil, “you’d 
probably have to use Dark Magic to open it — ” 

“Just because a wizard doesn’t use Dark Magic 
doesn’t mean he can’t, Miss Pennyfeather,” snapped 
Professor Binns. “I repeat, if the likes of Dumbledore 



“But maybe you’ve got to be related to Slytherin, so 
Dumbledore couldn’t — ” began Dean Thomas, but 
Professor Binns had had enough. 

“That will do,” he said sharply. “It is a myth! It does 
not exist! There is not a shred of evidence that 
Slytherin ever built so much as a secret broom 
cupboard! I regret telling you such a foolish story! We 



Page | 169 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




will return, if you please, to history, to solid, 
believable, verifiable facti” 



And within five minutes, the class had sunk back into 
its usual torpor. 

“I always knew Salazar Slytherin was a twisted old 
loony,” Ron told Harry and Hermione as they fought 
their way through the teeming corridors at the end of 
the lesson to drop off their bags before dinner. “But I 
never knew he started all this pure-blood stuff. I 
wouldn’t be in his House if you paid me. Honestly, if 
the Sorting Hat had tried to put me in Slytherin, I’d’ve 
got the train straight back home. ...” 

Hermione nodded fervently, but Harry didn’t say 
anything. His stomach had just dropped 
unpleasantly. 

Harry had never told Ron and Hermione that the 
Sorting Hat had seriously considered putting him in 
Slytherin. He could remember, as though it were 
yesterday, the small voice that had spoken in his ear 
when he’d placed the hat on his head a year before: 
You could be great, you know, it’s all here in your 
head, and Slytherin would help you on the way to 
greatness, no doubt about that. . . . 

But Harry, who had already heard of Slytherin 
House’s reputation for turning out Dark wizards, had 
thought desperately, Not Slytherin ! and the hat had 
said, Oh, well, if you’re sure ... better be Gryffindor. ... 

As they were shunted along in the throng, Colin 
Creevey went past. 

“Hiya, Harry!” 

“Hullo, Colin,” said Harry automatically. 

Page | 170 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry — Harry — a boy in my class has been saying 
you’re — ” 



But Colin was so small he couldn’t fight against the 
tide of people bearing him toward the Great Hall; they 
heard him squeak, “See you, Harry!” and he was 
gone. 

“What’s a boy in his class saying about you?” 
Hermione wondered. 

“That I’m Slytherin’s heir, I expect,” said Harry, his 
stomach dropping another inch or so as he suddenly 
remembered the way Justin Finch-Fletchley had run 
away from him at lunchtime. 

“People here’ll believe anything,” said Ron in disgust. 

The crowd thinned and they were able to climb the 
next staircase without difficulty. 

“D’you really think there’s a Chamber of Secrets?” 

Ron asked Hermione. 

“I don’t know,” she said, frowning. “Dumbledore 
couldn’t cure Mrs. Norris, and that makes me think 
that whatever attacked her might not be — well — 
human.” 

As she spoke, they turned a corner and found 
themselves at the end of the very corridor where the 
attack had happened. They stopped and looked. The 
scene was just as it had been that night, except that 
there was no stiff cat hanging from the torch bracket, 
and an empty chair stood against the wall bearing the 
message “The Chamber of Secrets Has Been Opened.” 

“That’s where Filch has been keeping guard,” Ron 
muttered. 

Page | 171 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




They looked at each other. The corridor was deserted. 



“Can’t hurt to have a poke around,” said Harry, 
dropping his bag and getting to his hands and knees 
so that he could crawl along, searching for clues. 

“Scorch marks!” he said. “Here — and here — ” 

“Come and look at this!” said Hermione. “This is 
funny. ...” 

Harry got up and crossed to the window next to the 
message on the wall. Hermione was pointing at the 
topmost pane, where around twenty spiders were 
scuttling, apparently fighting to get through a small 
crack. A long, silvery thread was dangling like a rope, 
as though they had all climbed it in their hurry to get 
outside. 

“Have you ever seen spiders act like that?” said 
Hermione wonderingly. 

“No,” said Harry, “have you, Ron? Ron?” 

He looked over his shoulder. Ron was standing well 
back and seemed to be fighting the impulse to run. 

“What’s up?” said Harry. 

“I — don’t — like — spiders,” said Ron tensely. 

“I never knew that,” said Hermione, looking at Ron in 
surprise. “You’ve used spiders in Potions loads of 
times. ...” 

“I don’t mind them dead,” said Ron, who was carefully 
looking anywhere but at the window. “I just don’t like 
the way they move. ...” 

Page | 172 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione giggled. 



“It’s not funny,” said Ron, fiercely. “If you must know, 
when I was three, Fred turned my — my teddy bear 
into a great big filthy spider because I broke his toy 
broomstick. ... You wouldn’t like them either if you’d 
been holding your bear and suddenly it had too many 
legs and ...” 

He broke off, shuddering. Hermione was obviously 
still trying not to laugh. Feeling they had better get off 
the subject, Harry said, “Remember all that water on 
the floor? Where did that come from? Someone’s 
mopped it up.” 

“It was about here,” said Ron, recovering himself to 
walk a few paces past Filch’s chair and pointing. 

“Level with this door.” 

He reached for the brass doorknob but suddenly 
withdrew his hand as though he’d been burned. 

“What’s the matter?” said Harry. 

“Can’t go in there,” said Ron gruffly. “That’s a girls’ 
toilet.” 

“Oh, Ron, there won’t be anyone in there,” said 
Hermione, standing up and coming over. “That’s 
Moaning Myrtle’s place. Come on, let’s have a look.” 

And ignoring the large OUT OF ORDER sign, she 
opened the door. 

It was the gloomiest, most depressing bathroom Harry 
had ever set foot in. Under a large, cracked, and 
spotted mirror were a row of chipped sinks. The floor 
was damp and reflected the dull light given off by the 
stubs of a few candles, burning low in their holders; 
Page | 173 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




the wooden doors to the stalls were flaking and 
scratched and one of them was dangling off its 
hinges. 

Hermione put her fingers to her lips and set off 
toward the end stall. When she reached it she said, 
“Hello, Myrtle, how are you?” 

Harry and Ron went to look. Moaning Myrtle was 
floating above the tank of the toilet, picking a spot on 
her chin. 

“This is a girls’ bathroom,” she said, eyeing Ron and 
Harry suspiciously. “They’re not girls.” 

“No,” Hermione agreed. “I just wanted to show them 
how — er — nice it is in here.” 

She waved vaguely at the dirty old mirror and the 
damp floor. 

“Ask her if she saw anything,” Harry mouthed at 
Hermione. 

“What are you whispering?” said Myrtle, staring at 
him. 

“Nothing,” said Harry quickly. “We wanted to ask — ” 

“I wish people would stop talking behind my back!” 
said Myrtle, in a voice choked with tears. “I do have 
feelings, you know, even if I am dead — ” 

“Myrtle, no one wants to upset you,” said Hermione. 
“Harry only — ” 

“No one wants to upset me! That’s a good one!” 
howled Myrtle. “My life was nothing but misery at this 
place and now people come along ruining my death!” 

Page | 174 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“We wanted to ask you if you’ve seen anything funny 
lately,” said Hermione quickly. “Because a cat was 
attacked right outside your front door on Halloween.” 

“Did you see anyone near here that night?” said 
Harry. 

“I wasn’t paying attention,” said Myrtle dramatically. 
“Peeves upset me so much I came in here and tried to 
kill myself. Then, of course, I remembered that I’m — 
that I’m — ” 

“Already dead,” said Ron helpfully. 

Myrtle gave a tragic sob, rose up in the air, turned 
over, and dived headfirst into the toilet, splashing 
water all over them and vanishing from sight, 
although from the direction of her muffled sobs, she 
had come to rest somewhere in the U-bend. 

Harry and Ron stood with their mouths open, but 
Hermione shrugged wearily and said, “Honestly, that 
was almost cheerful for Myrtle. ... Come on, let’s go.” 

Harry had barely closed the door on Myrtle’s gurgling 
sobs when a loud voice made all three of them jump. 

“RON!” 

Percy Weasley had stopped dead at the head of the 
stairs, prefect badge agleam, an expression of 
complete shock on his face. 

“That’s a girls’ bathroom!” he gasped. “What were you 
— ?” 

“Just having a look around,” Ron shrugged. “Clues, 
you know — ” 



Page | 175 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Percy swelled in a manner that reminded Harry 
forcefully of Mrs. Weasley. 



“Get — away — from — there — ” Percy said, striding 
toward them and starting to bustle them along, 
flapping his arms. “Don’t you care what this looks 
like? Coming back here while everyone’s at dinner — ” 

“Why shouldn’t we be here?” said Ron hotly, stopping 
short and glaring at Percy. “Listen, we never laid a 
finger on that cat!” 

“That’s what I told Ginny,” said Percy fiercely, “but 
she still seems to think you’re going to be expelled, 

I’ve never seen her so upset, crying her eyes out, you 
might think of her, all the first years are thoroughly 
overexcited by this business — ” 

“ You don’t care about Ginny,” said Ron, whose ears 
were now reddening. “You’re just worried I’m going to 
mess up your chances of being Head Boy — ” 

“Five points from Gryffindor!” Percy said tersely, 
fingering his prefect badge. “And I hope it teaches you 
a lesson! No more detective work, or I’ll write to 
Mum!” 

And he strode off, the back of his neck as red as 
Ron’s ears. 



Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose seats as far as 
possible from Percy in the common room that night. 
Ron was still in a very bad temper and kept blotting 
his Charms homework. When he reached absently for 
his wand to remove the smudges, it ignited the 
parchment. Fuming almost as much as his 
homework, Ron slammed The Standard Book of 
Page | 176 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Spells, Grade 2 shut. To Harry’s surprise, Hermione 
followed suit. 

“Who can it be, though?” she said in a quiet voice, as 
though continuing a conversation they had just been 
having. “Who’d want to frighten all the Squibs and 
Muggle-borns out of Hogwarts?” 

“Let’s think,” said Ron in mock puzzlement. “Who do 
we know who thinks Muggle-borns are scum?” 

He looked at Hermione. Hermione looked back, 
unconvinced. 

“If you’re talking about Malfoy — ” 

“Of course I am!” said Ron. “You heard him — ‘You’ll 
be next, MudbloodsV — come on, you’ve only got to 
look at his foul rat face to know it’s him — ” 

“Malfoy, the Heir of Slytherin?” said Hermione 
skeptically. 

“Look at his family,” said Harry, closing his books, 
too. “The whole lot of them have been in Slytherin; 
he’s always boasting about it. They could easily be 
Slytherin’s descendants. His father’s definitely evil 
enough.” 

“They could’ve had the key to the Chamber of Secrets 
for centuries!” said Ron. “Handing it down, father to 
son. ...” 

“Well,” said Hermione cautiously, “I suppose it’s 
possible. ...” 

“But how do we prove it?” said Harry darkly. 



Page | 177 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“There might be a way,” said Hermione slowly, 
dropping her voice still further with a quick glance 
across the room at Percy. “Of course, it would be 
difficult. And dangerous, very dangerous. We’d be 
breaking about fifty school rules, I expect — ” 

“If, in a month or so, you feel like explaining, you will 
let us know, won’t you?” said Ron irritably. 

“All right,” said Hermione coldly. “What we’d need to 
do is to get inside the Slytherin common room and 
ask Malfoy a few questions without him realizing it’s 
us.” 



“But that’s impossible,” Harry said as Ron laughed. 

“No, it’s not,” said Hermione. “All we’d need would be 
some Polyjuice Potion.” 

“What’s that?” said Ron and Harry together. 

“Snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago — ” 

“D’you think we’ve got nothing better to do in Potions 
than listen to Snape?” muttered Ron. 

“It transforms you into somebody else. Think about it! 
We could change into three of the Slytherins. No one 
would know it was us. Malfoy would probably tell us 
anything. He’s probably boasting about it in the 
Slytherin common room right now, if only we could 
hear him.” 

“This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,” said 
Ron, frowning. “What if we were stuck looking like 
three of the Slytherins forever?” 

“It wears off after a while,” said Hermione, waving her 
hand impatiently. “But getting hold of the recipe will 

Page | 178 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




be very difficult. Snape said it was in a book called 
Moste Potente Potions and it’s bound to be in the 
Restricted Section of the library.” 

There was only one way to get out a book from the 
Restricted Section: You needed a signed note of 
permission from a teacher. 

“Hard to see why we’d want the book, really,” said 
Ron, “if we weren’t going to try and make one of the 
potions.” 

“I think,” said Hermione, “that if we made it sound as 
though we were just interested in the theory, we 
might stand a chance. ...” 

“Oh, come on, no teacher’s going to fall for that,” said 
Ron. “They’d have to be really thick. ...” 



Page | 179 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




10 




THE ROGUE BLUDGER 

Since the disastrous episode of the pixies, Professor 
Lockhart had not brought live creatures to class. 
Instead, he read passages from his books to them, 
and sometimes reenacted some of the more dramatic 
bits. He usually picked Harry to help him with these 
reconstructions; so far, Harry had been forced to play 
a simple Transylvanian villager whom Lockhart had 
cured of a Babbling Curse, a yeti with a head cold, 
and a vampire who had been unable to eat anything 
except lettuce since Lockhart had dealt with him. 

Harry was hauled to the front of the class during their 
very next Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson, this 
time acting a werewolf. If he hadn’t had a very good 
reason for keeping Lockhart in a good mood, he would 
have refused to do it. 

“Nice loud howl, Harry — exactly — and then, if you’ll 
believe it, I pounced — like this — slammed him to 
the floor — thus — with one hand, I managed to hold 
him down — with my other, I put my wand to his 
throat — I then screwed up my remaining strength 
Page | 180 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets- J.K. Rowling 



and performed the immensely complex Homorphus 
Charm — he let out a piteous moan — go on, Harry — 
higher than that — good — the fur vanished — the 
fangs shrank — and he turned back into a man. 
Simple, yet effective — and another village will 
remember me forever as the hero who delivered them 
from the monthly terror of werewolf attacks.” 

The bell rang and Lockhart got to his feet. 

“Homework — compose a poem about my defeat of 
the Wagga Wagga Werewolf! Signed copies of Magical 
Me to the author of the best one!” 

The class began to leave. Harry returned to the back 
of the room, where Ron and Hermione were waiting. 

“Ready?” Harry muttered. 

“Wait till everyone’s gone,” said Hermione nervously. 
“All right ...” 

She approached Lockhart’s desk, a piece of paper 
clutched tightly in her hand, Harry and Ron right 
behind her. 

“Er — Professor Lockhart?” Hermione stammered. “I 
wanted to — to get this book out of the library. Just 
for background reading.” She held out the piece of 
paper, her hand shaking slightly. “But the thing is, 
it’s in the Restricted Section of the library, so I need a 
teacher to sign for it — I’m sure it would help me 
understand what you say in Gadding with Ghouls 
about slow-acting venoms — ” 

“Ah, Gadding with GhoulsV’ said Lockhart, taking the 
note from Hermione and smiling widely at her. 
“Possibly my very favorite book. You enjoyed it?” 



Page | 181 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, yes,” said Hermione eagerly. “So clever, the way 
you trapped that last one with the tea-strainer — ” 

“Well, I’m sure no one will mind me giving the best 
student of the year a little extra help,” said Lockhart 
warmly, and he pulled out an enormous peacock 
quill. “Yes, nice, isn’t it?” he said, misreading the 
revolted look on Ron’s face. “I usually save it for book 
signings.” 

He scrawled an enormous loopy signature on the note 
and handed it back to Hermione. 

“So, Harry,” said Lockhart, while Hermione folded the 
note with fumbling fingers and slipped it into her bag. 
“Tomorrow’s the first Quidditch match of the season, I 
believe? Gryffindor against Slytherin, is it not? I hear 
you’re a useful player. I was a Seeker, too. I was 
asked to try for the National Squad, but preferred to 
dedicate my life to the eradication of the Dark Forces. 
Still, if ever you feel the need for a little private 
training, don’t hesitate to ask. Always happy to pass 
on my expertise to less able players. ...” 

Harry made an indistinct noise in his throat and then 
hurried off after Ron and Hermione. 

“I don’t believe it,” he said as the three of them 
examined the signature on the note. “He didn’t even 
look at the book we wanted.” 

“That’s because he’s a brainless git,” said Ron. “But 
who cares, we’ve got what we needed — ” 

“He is not a brainless git,” said Hermione shrilly as 
they half ran toward the library. 

“Just because he said you were the best student of 
the year — ” 
