

Page | 225Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




All the air seemed to vanish from Harry’s lungs; he 
felt as though he were falling through the floor; his 
brain turned icy cold — Ron dead, no, it couldn’t be 



But wait a moment, it couldn’t be — Ron was 
downstairs — 

“Mrs. Weasley?” Harry croaked. 

“ R-r-riddikulus\” Mrs. Weasley sobbed, pointing her 
shaking wand at Ron’s body. 

Crack. 

Ron’s body turned into Bill’s, spread-eagled on his 
back, his eyes wide open and empty. Mrs. Weasley 
sobbed harder than ever. 

“ R-riddikulus\” she sobbed again. 

Crack. 

Mr. Weasley’s body replaced Bill’s, his glasses askew, 
a trickle of blood running down his face. 

“No!” Mrs. Weasley moaned. “No ... riddikulus\ 
Riddikulusl RIDDIKULUSl” 

Crack. Dead twins. Crack. Dead Percy. Crack. Dead 
Harry ... 

“Mrs. Weasley, just get out of here!” shouted Harry, 
staring down at his own dead body on the floor. “Let 
someone else — ” 

“What’s going on?” 



Page | 226Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin had come running into the room, closely 
followed by Sirius, with Moody stumping along behind 
them. Lupin looked from Mrs. Weasley to the dead 
Harry on the floor and seemed to understand in an 
instant. Pulling out his own wand he said, very firmly 
and clearly, “ RiddikulusV’ 

Harry’s body vanished. A silvery orb hung in the air 
over the spot where it had lain. Lupin waved his wand 
once more and the orb vanished in a puff of smoke. 

“Oh — oh — oh!” gulped Mrs. Weasley, and she broke 
into a storm of crying, her face in her hands. 

“Molly,” said Lupin bleakly, walking over to her, 

“Molly, don’t ...” 

Next second she was sobbing her heart out on Lupin’s 
shoulder. 

“Molly, it was just a boggart,” he said soothingly, 
patting her on the head. “Just a stupid boggart ...” 

“I see them d-d-dead all the time!” Mrs. Weasley 
moaned into his shoulder. “All the t-t-time! I d-d- 
dream about it ...” 

Sirius was staring at the patch of carpet where the 
boggart, pretending to be Harry’s body, had lain. 
Moody was looking at Harry, who avoided his gaze. He 
had a funny feeling Moody’s magical eye had followed 
him all the way out of the kitchen. 

“D-d-don’t tell Arthur,” Mrs. Weasley was gulping 
now, mopping her eyes frantically with her cuffs. “I d- 
d-don’t want him to know... Being silly ...” 

Lupin handed her a handkerchief and she blew her 
nose. 

Page | 227Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, I’m so sorry, what must you think of me?” she 
said shakily. “Not even able to get rid of a boggart ...” 

“Don’t be stupid,” said Harry, trying to smile. 

“I’m just s-s-so worried,” she said, tears spilling out of 
her eyes again. “Half the f-f-family’s in the Order, it’ll 
b-b-be a miracle if we all come through this... and P- 
P-Percy’s not talking to us... What if something d-d- 
dreadful happens and we had never m-m-made up? 
And what’s going to happen if Arthur and I get killed, 
who’s g-g-going to look after Ron and Ginny?” 

“Molly, that’s enough,” said Lupin firmly. “This isn’t 
like last time. The Order is better prepared, we’ve got 
a head start, we know what Voldemort’s up to — ” 

Mrs. Weasley gave a little squeak of fright at the 
sound of the name. 

“Oh, Molly, come on, it’s about time you got used to 
hearing it — look, I can’t promise no one’s going to get 
hurt, nobody can promise that, but we’re much better 
off than we were last time, you weren’t in the Order 
then, you don’t understand, last time we were 
outnumbered twenty to one by the Death Eaters and 
they were picking us off one by one...” 

Harry thought of the photograph again, of his parents’ 
beaming faces. He knew Moody was still watching 
him. 

“Don’t worry about Percy,” said Sirius abruptly. “He’ll 
come round. It’s a matter of time before Voldemort 
moves into the open; once he does, the whole 
Ministry’s going to be begging us to forgive them. And 
I’m not sure I’ll be accepting their apology,” he added 
bitterly. 



Page | 228Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“And as for who’s going to look after Ron and Ginny if 
you and Arthur died,” said Lupin, smiling slightly, 
“what do you think we’d do, let them starve?” 

Mrs. Weasley smiled tremulously. 

“Being silly,” she muttered again, mopping her eyes. 

But Harry, closing his bedroom door behind him 
some ten minutes later, could not think Mrs. Weasley 
silly. He could still see his parents beaming up at him 
from the tattered old photograph, unaware that their 
lives, like so many of those around them, were 
drawing to a close. The image of the boggart posing as 
the corpse of each member of Mrs. Weasley’s family in 
turn kept flashing before his eyes. 

Without warning, the scar on his forehead seared 
with pain again and his stomach churned horribly. 

“Cut it out,” he said firmly, rubbing the scar as the 
pain receded again. 

“First sign of madness, talking to your own head,” 
said a sly voice from the empty picture on the wall. 

Harry ignored it. He felt older than he had ever felt in 
his life, and it seemed extraordinary to him that 
barely an hour ago he had been worried about a joke 
shop and who had gotten a prefect’s badge. 



Page | 229Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




10 




LUNA LOVEGOOD 

Harry had a troubled night’s sleep. His parents wove 
in and out of his dreams, never speaking; Mrs. 
Weasley sobbed over Kreacher’s dead body watched 
by Ron and Hermione, who were wearing crowns, and 
yet again Harry found himself walking down a 
corridor ending in a locked door. He awoke abruptly 
with his scar prickling to find Ron already dressed 
and talking to him. 

"... better hurry up, Mum’s going ballistic, she says 
we’re going to miss the train...” 

There was a lot of commotion in the house. From 
what he heard as he dressed at top speed, Harry 
gathered that Fred and George had bewitched their 
trunks to fly downstairs to save the bother of carrying 
them, with the result that they had hurtled straight 
into Ginny and knocked her down two flights of stairs 
into the hall; Mrs. Black and Mrs. Weasley were both 
screaming at the top of their voices. 



Page | 230Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, 
YOU IDIOTS — ” 

FILTHY HALF-BREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE 
HOUSE OF MY FATHERS — ” 

Hermione came hurrying into the room looking 
flustered just as Harry was putting on his trainers; 
Hedwig was swaying on her shoulder, and she was 
carrying a squirming Crookshanks in her arms. 

“Mum and Dad just sent Hedwig back” — the owl 
fluttered obligingly over and perched on top of her 
cage — “are you ready yet?” 

“Nearly — Ginny all right?” Harry asked, shoving on 
his glasses. 

“Mrs. Weasley’s patched her up,” said Hermione. “But 
now Mad-Eye’s complaining that we can’t leave unless 
Sturgis Podmore’s here, otherwise the guard will be 
one short.” 

“Guard?” said Harry. “We have to go to King’s Cross 
with a guard?” 

“ You have to go to King’s Cross with a guard,” 
Hermione corrected him. 

“Why?” said Harry irritably. “I thought Voldemort was 
supposed to be lying low, or are you telling me he’s 
going to jump out from behind a dustbin to try and do 
me in?” 

“I don’t know, it’s just what Mad-Eye says,” said 
Hermione distractedly, looking at her watch. “But if 
we don’t leave soon we’re definitely going to miss the 
train...” 



Page | 231Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!” 
Mrs. Weasley bellowed and Hermione jumped as 
though scalded and hurried out of the room. Harry 
seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously into her 
cage, and set off downstairs after Hermione, dragging 
his trunk. 

Mrs. Black’s portrait was howling with rage but 
nobody was bothering to close the curtains over her; 
all the noise in the hall was bound to rouse her again 
anyway. 

“Harry, you’re to come with me and Tonks,” shouted 
Mrs. Weasley over the repeated screeches of 
“MUDBLOODSl SCUM CREATURES OF DIRV.” “Leave 
your trunk and your owl, Alastor’s going to deal with 
the luggage... Oh, for heaven’s sake, Sirius, 
Dumbledore said no!” 

A bearlike black dog had appeared at Harry’s side as 
Harry clambered over the various trunks cluttering 
the hall to get to Mrs. Weasley. 

“Oh honestly ...” said Mrs. Weasley despairingly, 
“well, on your own head be it!” 

She wrenched open the front door and stepped out 
into the weak September sunlight. Harry and the dog 
followed her. The door slammed behind them and 
Mrs. Black’s screeches were cut off instantly. 

“Where’s Tonks?” Harry said, looking around as they 
went down the stone steps of number twelve, which 
vanished the moment they reached the pavement. 

“She’s waiting for us just up here,” said Mrs. Weasley 
stiffly, averting her eyes from the lolloping black dog 
beside Harry. 



Page | 232Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




An old woman greeted them on the corner. She had 
tightly curled gray hair and wore a purple hat shaped 
like a porkpie. 

“Wotcher, Harry,” she said, winking. “Better hurry up, 
hadn’t we, Molly?” she added, checking her watch. 

“I know, I know,” moaned Mrs. Weasley, lengthening 
her stride, “but Mad-Eye wanted to wait for Sturgis... 
If only Arthur could have got us cars from the 
Ministry again ... but Fudge wouldn’t let him borrow 
so much as an empty ink bottle these days... How 
Muggles can stand traveling without magic ...” 

But the great black dog gave a joyful bark and 
gamboled around them, snapping at pigeons, and 
chasing its own tail. Harry couldn’t help laughing. 
Sirius had been trapped inside for a very long time. 
Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips in an almost Aunt 
Petunia-ish way. 

It took them twenty minutes to reach King’s Cross by 
foot and nothing more eventful happened during that 
time than Sirius scaring a couple of cats for Harry’s 
entertainment. Once inside the station they lingered 
casually beside the barrier between platforms nine 
and ten until the coast was clear, then each of them 
leaned against it in turn and fell easily through onto 
platform nine and three quarters, where the Hogwarts 
Express stood belching sooty steam over a platform 
packed with departing students and their families. 
Harry inhaled the familiar smell and felt his spirits 
soar. . . He was really going back. . . 

“I hope the others make it in time,” said Mrs. Weasley 
anxiously, staring behind her at the wrought-iron 
arch spanning the platform, through which new 
arrivals would come. 



Page | 233Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Nice dog, Harry!” called a tall boy with dreadlocks. 

“Thanks, Lee,” said Harry, grinning, as Sirius wagged 
his tail frantically. 

“Oh good,” said Mrs. Weasley, sounding relieved, 
“here’s Alas tor with the luggage, look ...” 

A porter’s cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, 
Moody came limping through the archway pushing a 
cart full of their trunks. 

“All okay,” he muttered to Mrs. Weasley and Tonks. 
“Don’t think we were followed...” 

Seconds later, Mr. Weasley emerged onto the platform 
with Ron and Hermione. They had almost unloaded 
Moody’s luggage cart when Fred, George, and Ginny 
turned up with Lupin. 

“No trouble?” growled Moody. 

“Nothing,” said Lupin. 

“I’ll still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore,” said 
Moody. “That’s the second time he’s not turned up in 
a week. Getting as unreliable as Mundungus.” 

“Well, look after yourselves,” said Lupin, shaking 
hands all round. He reached Harry last and gave him 
a clap on the shoulder. “You too, Harry. Be careful.” 

“Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled,” 
said Moody, shaking Harry’s hand too. “And don’t 
forget, all of you — careful what you put in writing. If 
in doubt, don’t put it in a letter at all.” 



Page | 234Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s been great meeting all of you,” said Tonks, 
hugging Hermione and Ginny. “We’ll see you soon, I 
expect.” 

A warning whistle sounded; the students still on the 
platform started hurrying onto the train. 

“Quick, quick,” said Mrs. Weasley distractedly, 
hugging them at random and catching Harry twice. 
“Write... Be good... If you’ve forgotten anything we’ll 
send it on... Onto the train, now, hurry...” 

For one brief moment, the great black dog reared onto 
its hind legs and placed its front paws on Harry’s 
shoulders, but Mrs. Weasley shoved Harry away 
toward the train door hissing, “For heaven’s sake act 
more like a dog, Sirius!” 

“See you!” Harry called out of the open window as the 
train began to move, while Ron, Hermione, and Ginny 
waved beside him. The figures of Tonks, Lupin, 

Moody, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley shrank rapidly but 
the black dog was bounding alongside the window, 
wagging its tail; blurred people on the platform were 
laughing to see it chasing the train, and then they 
turned the corner, and Sirius was gone. 

“He shouldn’t have come with us,” said Hermione in a 
worried voice. 

“Oh lighten up,” said Ron, “he hasn’t seen daylight for 
months, poor bloke.” 

“Well,” said Fred, clapping his hands together, “can’t 
stand around chatting all day, we’ve got business to 
discuss with Lee. See you later,” and he and George 
disappeared down the corridor to the right. 



Page | 235Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The train was gathering still more speed, so that the 
houses outside the window flashed past and they 
swayed where they stood. 

“Shall we go and find a compartment, then?” Harry 
asked Ron and Hermione. 

Ron and Hermione exchanged looks. 

“Er,” said Ron. 

“We’re — well — Ron and I are supposed to go into 
the prefect carriage,” Hermione said awkwardly. 

Ron wasn’t looking at Harry; he seemed to have 
become intensely interested in the fingernails on his 
left hand. 

“Oh,” said Harry. “Right. Fine.” 

“I don’t think we’ll have to stay there all journey,” said 
Hermione quickly. “Our letters said we just get 
instructions from the Head Boy and Girl and then 
patrol the corridors from time to time.” 

“Fine,” said Harry again. “Well, I-I might see you later, 
then.” 

“Yeah, definitely,” said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious 
look at Harry. “It’s a pain having to go down there, I’d 
rather — but we have to — I mean, I’m not enjoying 
it, I’m not Percy,” he finished defiantly. 

“I know you’re not,” said Harry and he grinned. But 
as Hermione and Ron dragged their trunks, 
Crookshanks, and a caged Pigwidgeon off toward the 
engine end of the train, Harry felt an odd sense of 
loss. He had never traveled on the Hogwarts Express 
without Ron. 

Page | 236Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on,” Ginny told him, “if we get a move on we’ll 
be able to save them places.” 

“Right,” said Harry, picking up Hedwig’s cage in one 
hand and the handle of his trunk in the other. They 
struggled off down the corridor, peering through the 
glass-paneled doors into the compartments they 
passed, which were already full. Harry could not help 
noticing that a lot of people stared back at him with 
great interest and that several of them nudged their 
neighbors and pointed him out. After he had met this 
behavior in five consecutive carriages he remembered 
that the Daily Prophet had been telling its readers all 
summer what a lying show-off he was. He wondered 
bleakly whether the people now staring and 
whispering believed the stories. 

In the very last carriage they met Neville Longbottom, 
Harry’s fellow fifth-year Gryffindor, his round face 
shining with the effort of pulling his trunk along and 
maintaining a one-handed grip on his struggling toad, 
Trevor. 

“Hi, Harry,” he panted. “Hi, Ginny... Everywhere ’s 
full... I can’t find a seat...” 

“What are you talking about?” said Ginny, who had 
squeezed past Neville to peer into the compartment 
behind him. “There’s room in this one, there’s only 
Loony Lovegood in here — ” 

Neville mumbled something about not wanting to 
disturb anyone. 

“Don’t be silly,” said Ginny, laughing, “she’s all right.” 

She slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside it. 
Harry and Neville followed. 



Page | 237Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Hi, Luna,” said Ginny. “Is it okay if we take these 
seats?” 

The girl beside the window looked up. She had 
straggly, waist-length, dirty-blond hair, very pale 
eyebrows, and protuberant eyes that gave her a 
permanently surprised look. Harry knew at once why 
Neville had chosen to pass this compartment by. The 
girl gave off an aura of distinct dottiness. Perhaps it 
was the fact that she had stuck her wand behind her 
left ear for safekeeping, or that she had chosen to 
wear a necklace of butterbeer caps, or that she was 
reading a magazine upside down. Her eyes ranged 
over Neville and came to rest on Harry. She nodded. 

“Thanks,” said Ginny, smiling at her. 

Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and 
Hedwig’s cage in the luggage rack and sat down. The 
girl called Luna watched them over her upside-down 
magazine, which was called The Quibbler. She did not 
seem to need to blink as much as normal humans. 

She stared and stared at Harry, who had taken the 
seat opposite her and now wished he had not. 

“Had a good summer, Luna?” Ginny asked. 

“Yes,” said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off 
Harry. “Yes, it was quite enjoyable, you know. You’re 
Harry Potter,” she added. 

“I know I am,” said Harry. 

Neville chuckled. Luna turned her pale eyes upon him 
instead. 

“And I don’t know who you are.” 

“I’m nobody,” said Neville hurriedly. 

Page | 238Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No you’re not,” said Ginny sharply. “Neville 
Longbottom — Luna Lovegood. Luna’s in my year, but 
in Ravenclaw.” 

“ Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure,” said 
Luna in a singsong voice. 

She raised her upside-down magazine high enough to 
hide her face and fell silent. Harry and Neville looked 
at each other with their eyebrows raised. Ginny 
suppressed a giggle. 

The train rattled onward, speeding them out into 
open country. It was an odd, unsettled sort of day; 
one moment the carriage was full of sunlight and the 
next they were passing beneath ominously gray 
clouds. 

“Guess what I got for my birthday?” said Neville. 

“Another Remembrall?” said Harry, remembering the 
marblelike device Neville’s grandmother had sent him 
in an effort to improve his abysmal memory. 

“No,” said Neville, “I could do with one, though, I lost 
the old one ages ago... No, look at this...” 

He dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on 
Trevor into his schoolbag and after a little bit of 
rummaging pulled out what appeared to be a small 
gray cactus in a pot, except that it was covered with 
what looked like boils rather than spines. 

“Mimbulus mimbletonia,” he said proudly. 

Harry stared at the thing. It was pulsating slightly, 
giving it the rather sinister look of some diseased 
internal organ. 



Page | 239Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s really, really rare,” said Neville, beaming. “I don’t 
know if there’s one in the greenhouse at Hogwarts, 
even. I can’t wait to show it to Professor Sprout. My 
great-uncle Algie got it for me in Assyria. I’m going to 
see if I can breed from it.” 

Harry knew that Neville’s favorite subject was 
Herbology, but for the life of him he could not see 
what he would want with this stunted little plant. 

“Does it — er — do anything?” he asked. 

“Loads of stuff!” said Neville proudly. “It’s got an 
amazing defensive mechanism — hold Trevor for 
me...” 

He dumped the toad into Harry’s lap and took a quill 
from his schoolbag. Luna Lovegood’s popping eyes 
appeared over the top of her upside-down magazine 
again, watching what Neville was doing. Neville held 
the Mimbulus mimbletonia up to his eyes, his tongue 
between his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant 
a sharp prod with the tip of his quill. 

Liquid squirted from every boil on the plant, thick, 
stinking, dark-green jets of it; they hit the ceiling, the 
windows, and spattered Luna Lovegood’s magazine. 
Ginny, who had flung her arms up in front of her face 
just in time, merely looked as though she was 
wearing a slimy green hat, but Harry, whose hands 
had been busy preventing the escape of Trevor, 
received a face full. It smelled like rancid manure. 

Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, 
shook his head to get the worst out of his eyes. 

“S-sorry,” he gasped. “I haven’t tried that before... 
Didn’t realize it would be quite so ... Don’t worry, 



Page | 240Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




though, Stinksap’s not poisonous,” he added 
nervously, as Harry spat a mouthful onto the floor. 



At that precise moment the door of their compartment 
slid open. 

“Oh ... hello, Harry,” said a nervous voice. “Um ... bad 
time?” 

Harry wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevor- 
free hand. A very pretty girl with long, shiny black 
hair was standing in the doorway smiling at him: Cho 
Chang, the Seeker on the Ravenclaw Quidditch team. 

“Oh ... hi,” said Harry blankly. 

“Um ...” said Cho. “Well ... just thought I’d say hello 
... ’bye then.” 

She closed the door again, rather pink in the face, 
and departed. Harry slumped back in his seat and 
groaned. He would have liked Cho to discover him 
sitting with a group of very cool people laughing their 
heads off at a joke he had just told; he would not 
have chosen to be sitting with Neville and Loony 
Lovegood, clutching a toad and dripping in Stinksap. 

“Never mind,” said Ginny bracingly. “Look, we can get 
rid of all this easily.” She pulled out her wand. 

“ Scour gif yY’ 

The Stinksap vanished. 

“Sorry,” said Neville again, in a small voice. 

Ron and Hermione did not turn up for nearly an 
hour, by which time the food trolley had already gone 
by. Harry, Ginny, and Neville had finished their 
Pumpkin Pasties and were busy swapping Chocolate 

Page | 241Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Frog cards when the compartment door slid open and 
they walked in, accompanied by Crookshanks and a 
shrilly hooting Pigwidgeon in his cage. 

“I’m starving,” said Ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to 
Hedwig, grabbing a Chocolate Frog from Harry and 
throwing himself into the seat next to him. He ripped 
open the wrapper, bit off the Frog’s head, and leaned 
back with his eyes closed as though he had had a 
very exhausting morning. 

“Well, there are two fifth-year prefects from each 
House,” said Hermione, looking thoroughly 
disgruntled as she took her seat. “Boy and girl from 
each.” 

“And guess who’s a Slytherin prefect?” said Ron, still 
with his eyes closed. 

“Malfoy,” replied Harry at once, his worst fear 
confirmed. 

“ ’Course,” said Ron bitterly, stuffing the rest of the 
Frog into his mouth and taking another. 

“And that complete cow Pansy Parkinson,” said 
Hermione viciously. “How she got to be a prefect when 
she’s thicker than a concussed troll ...” 

“Who’s Hufflepuff?” Harry asked. 

“Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Abbott,” said Ron 
thickly. 

“And Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for 
Ravenclaw,” said Hermione. 

“You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil,” said a 
vague voice. 

Page | 242Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Everyone turned to look at Luna Lovegood, who was 
gazing un-blinkingly at Ron over the top of The 
Quibbler. He swallowed his mouthful of Frog. 

“Yeah, I know I did,” he said, looking mildly 
surprised. 

“She didn’t enjoy it very much,” Luna informed him. 
“She doesn’t think you treated her very well, because 
you wouldn’t dance with her. I don’t think I’d have 
minded,” she added thoughtfully, “I don’t like dancing 
very much.” 

She retreated behind The Quibbler again. Ron stared 
at the cover with his mouth hanging open for a few 
seconds, then looked around at Ginny for some kind 
of explanation, but Ginny had stuffed her knuckles in 
her mouth to stop herself giggling. Ron shook his 
head, bemused, then checked his watch. 

“We’re supposed to patrol the corridors every so 
often,” he told Harry and Neville, “and we can give out 
punishments if people are misbehaving. I can’t wait to 
get Crabbe and Goyle for something...” 

“You’re not supposed to abuse your position, Ron!” 
said Hermione sharply. 

“Yeah, right, because Malfoy won’t abuse it at all,” 
said Ron sarcastically. 

“So you’re going to descend to his level?” 

“No, I’m just going to make sure I get his mates before 
he gets mine.” 

“For heaven’s sake, Ron — ” 



Page | 243Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll make Goyle do lines, it’ll kill him, he hates 
writing,” said Ron happily. He lowered his voice to 
Goyle ’s low grunt and, screwing up his face in a look 
of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. “I 
... must ... not ... look ... like ... a ... baboon’s ... 
backside...” 

Everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than 
Luna Lovegood. She let out a scream of mirth that 
caused Hedwig to wake up and flap her wings 
indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up into the 
luggage rack, hissing. She laughed so hard that her 
magazine slipped out of her grasp, slid down her legs, 
and onto the floor. 

“That was funny\” 

Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped 
for breath, staring at Ron. Utterly nonplussed, he 
looked around at the others, who were now laughing 
at the expression on Ron’s face and at the ludicrously 
prolonged laughter of Luna Lovegood, who was 
rocking backward and forward, clutching her sides. 

“Are you taking the mickey?” said Ron, frowning at 
her. 

“Baboon’s ... backside!” she choked, holding her ribs. 

Everyone else was watching Luna laughing, but 
Harry, glancing at the magazine on the floor, noticed 
something that made him dive for it. Upside down it 
had been hard to tell what the picture on the front 
was, but Harry now realized it was a fairly bad 
cartoon of Cornelius Fudge; Harry only recognized 
him because of the lime-green bowler hat. One of 
Fudge’s hands was clenched around a bag of gold; the 
other hand was throttling a goblin. The cartoon was 
captioned: How Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts? 
Page | 244Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Beneath this were listed the titles of other articles 
inside the magazine. 

CORRUPTION IN THE QUIDDITCH LEAGUE: 

How the Tornados Are Taking Control 
SECRETS OF THE ANCIENT RUNES REVEALED 
SIRIUS BLACK: Villain or Victim? 

“Can I have a look at this?” Harry asked Luna eagerly. 

She nodded, still gazing at Ron, breathless with 
laughter. 

Harry opened the magazine and scanned the index; 
until this moment he had completely forgotten the 
magazine Kingsley had handed Mr. Weasley to give to 
Sirius, but it must have been this edition of The 
Quibbler. He found the page and turned excitedly to 
the article. 

This too was illustrated by a rather bad cartoon; in 
fact, Harry would not have known it was supposed to 
be Sirius if it hadn’t been captioned. Sirius was 
standing on a pile of human bones with his wand out. 
The headline on the article read: 

SIRIUS - Black As He’s Painted? 

Notorious Mass Murderer OR Innocent Singing 
Sensation? 

Harry had to read this sentence several times before 
he was convinced that he had not misunderstood it. 
Since when had Sirius been a singing sensation? 



Page | 245Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




For fourteen years Sirius Black has been believed 
guilty of the mass murder of twelve innocent Muggles 
and one wizard. Black’s audacious escape from 
Azkaban two years ago has led to the widest manhunt 
ever conducted by the Ministry of Magic. None of us 
has ever questioned that he deserves to be recaptured 
and handed back to the dementors. 

BUT DOES HE? 

Startling new evidence has recently come to light that 
Sirius Black may not have committed the crimes for 
which he was sent to Azkaban. In fact, says Doris 
Purkiss, of 18 Acanthia Way, Little Norton, Black may 
not even have been present at the killings. 

“What people don’t realize is that Sirius Black is a 
false name, ” says Mrs. Purkiss. “The man people 
believe to be Sirius Black is actually Stubby 
Boardman, lead singer of the popular singing group 
The Hobgoblins, who retired from public life after being 
struck in the ear by a turnip at a concert in Little 
Norton Church Hall nearly fifteen years ago. I 
recognized him the moment I saw his picture in the 
paper. Now, Stubby couldn’t possibly have committed 
those crimes, because on the day in question he 
happened to be enjoying a romantic candlelit dinner 
with me. I have written to the Minister of Magic and am 
expecting him to give Stubby, alias Sirius, a full pardon 
any day now. ” 

Harry finished reading and stared at the page in 
disbelief. Perhaps it was a joke, he thought, perhaps 
the magazine often printed spoof items. He flicked 
back a few pages and found the piece on Fudge. 

Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic, denied that 
he had any plans to take over the running of the 
Wizarding Bank, Gringotts, when he was elected 

Page | 246Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Minister of Magic five years ago. Fudge has always 
insisted that he wants nothing more than to 
“cooperate peacefully” with the guardians of our gold. 

BUT DOES HE? 

Sources close to the Minister have recently disclosed 
that Fudge’s dearest ambition is to seize control of the 
goblin gold supplies and that he will not hesitate to 
use force if need be. 

“It wouldn’t be the first time, either,” said a Ministry 
insider. “Cornelius ‘Goblin-Crusher’ Fudge, that’s what 
his friends call him, if you could hear him when he 
thinks no one’s listening, oh, he’s always talking about 
the goblins he’s had done in; he’s had them drowned, 
he’s had them dropped off buildings, he’s had them 
poisoned, he’s had them cooked in pies...” 



Harry did not read any further. Fudge might have 
many faults but Harry found it extremely hard to 
imagine him ordering goblins to be cooked in pies. He 
flicked through the rest of the magazine. Pausing 
every few pages he read an accusation that the 
Tutshill Tornados were winning the Quidditch League 
by a combination of blackmail, illegal broom- 
tampering, and torture; an interview with a wizard 
who claimed to have flown to the moon on a 
Cleansweep Six and brought back a bag of moon frogs 
to prove it; and an article on ancient runes, which at 
least explained why Luna had been reading The 
Quibbler upside down. According to the magazine, if 
you turned the runes on their heads they revealed a 
spell to make your enemy’s ears turn into kumquats. 
In fact, compared to the rest of the articles in The 
Quibbler, the suggestion that Sirius might really be 
the lead singer of The Hobgoblins was quite sensible. 
Page | 247Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Anything good in there?” asked Ron as Harry closed 
the magazine. 

“Of course not,” said Hermione scathingly, before 
Harry could answer, “ The Quibbler’s rubbish, 
everyone knows that.” 

“Excuse me,” said Luna; her voice had suddenly lost 
its dreamy quality. “My father’s the editor.” 

“I — oh,” said Hermione, looking embarrassed. “Well 
... it’s got some interesting ... I mean, it’s quite ...” 
