



Mad-Eye Moody limp into sight through the narrow 
gap between their heads. Moody was wearing his old 
traveling cloak over his nightshirt and leaning on his 
staff as usual. 

“Pajama party, is it?” he growled up the stairs. 

“Professor Snape and I heard noises, Professor,” said 
Filch at once. “Peeves the Poltergeist, throwing things 
around as usual — and then Professor Snape 
discovered that someone had broken into his off — ” 

“Shut up!” Snape hissed to Filch. 

Moody took a step closer to the foot of the stairs. 

Harry saw Moody’s magical eye travel over Snape, and 
then, unmistakably, onto himself. 

Harry’s heart gave a horrible jolt. Moody could see 
through Invisibility Cloaks ... he alone could see the 
full strangeness of the scene: Snape in his nightshirt, 
Filch clutching the egg, and he, Harry, trapped in the 
stairs behind them. Moody’s lopsided gash of a mouth 
opened in surprise. For a few seconds, he and Harry 
stared straight into each other’s eyes. Then Moody 
closed his mouth and turned his blue eye upon Snape 
again. 

“Did I hear that correctly, Snape?” he asked slowly. 
“Someone broke into your office?” 

“It is unimportant,” said Snape coldly. 

“On the contrary,” growled Moody, “it is very 
important. Who’d want to break into your office?” 

“A student, I daresay,” said Snape. Harry could see a 
vein flickering horribly on Snape ’s greasy temple. “It 
has happened before. Potion ingredients have gone 

Page | 520 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




missing from my private store cupboard ... students 
attempting illicit mixtures, no doubt. ...” 

“Reckon they were after potion ingredients, eh?” said 
Moody. “Not hiding anything else in your office, are 
you?” 

Harry saw the edge of Snape ’s sallow face turn a 
nasty brick color, the vein in his temple pulsing more 
rapidly. 

“You know I’m hiding nothing, Moody,” he said in a 
soft and dangerous voice, “as you’ve searched my 
office pretty thoroughly yourself.” 

Moody’s face twisted into a smile. “Auror’s privilege, 
Snape. Dumbledore told me to keep an eye — ” 

“Dumbledore happens to trust me,” said Snape 
through clenched teeth. “I refuse to believe that he 
gave you orders to search my office!” 

“ ’Course Dumbledore trusts you,” growled Moody. 
“He’s a trusting man, isn’t he? Believes in second 
chances. But me — I say there are spots that don’t 
come off, Snape. Spots that never come off, d’you 
know what I mean?” 

Snape suddenly did something very strange. He 
seized his left forearm convulsively with his right 
hand, as though something on it had hurt him. 

Moody laughed. “Get back to bed, Snape.” 

“You don’t have the authority to send me anywhere!” 
Snape hissed, letting go of his arm as though angry 
with himself. “I have as much right to prowl this 
school after dark as you do!” 



Page | 521 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Prowl away,” said Moody, but his voice was full of 
menace. “I look forward to meeting you in a dark 
corridor some time. ... You’ve dropped something, by 
the way. ...” 

With a stab of horror, Harry saw Moody point at the 
Marauder’s Map, still lying on the staircase six steps 
below him. As Snape and Filch both turned to look at 
it, Harry threw caution to the winds; he raised his 
arms under the cloak and waved furiously at Moody 
to attract his attention, mouthing “It’s mine! Mine!” 

Snape had reached out for it, a horrible expression of 
dawning comprehension on his face — 

“Accio Parchments 

The map flew up into the air, slipped through Snape ’s 
outstretched fingers, and soared down the stairs into 
Moody’s hand. 

“My mistake,” Moody said calmly. “It’s mine — 
must’ve dropped it earlier — ” 

But Snape ’s black eyes were darting from the egg in 
Filch’s arms to the map in Moody’s hand, and Harry 
could tell he was putting two and two together, as 
only Snape could. ... 

“Potter,” he said quietly. 

“What’s that?” said Moody calmly, folding up the map 
and pocketing it. 

“Potter!” Snape snarled, and he actually turned his 
head and stared right at the place where Harry was, 
as though he could suddenly see him. “That egg is 
Potter’s egg. That piece of parchment belongs to 



Page | 522 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Potter. I have seen it before, I recognize it! Potter is 
here! Potter, in his Invisibility Cloak!” 

Snape stretched out his hands like a blind man and 
began to move up the stairs; Harry could have sworn 
his over-large nostrils were dilating, trying to sniff 
Harry out — trapped, Harry leaned backward, trying 
to avoid Snape’s fingertips, but any moment now — 

“There’s nothing there, Snape!” barked Moody, “but 
I’ll be happy to tell the headmaster how quickly your 
mind jumped to Harry Potter!” 

“Meaning what?” Snape turned again to look at 
Moody, his hands still outstretched, inches from 
Harry’s chest. 

“Meaning that Dumbledore’s very interested to know 
who’s got it in for that boy!” said Moody, limping 
nearer still to the foot of the stairs. “And so am I, 
Snape ... very interested. ...” The torchlight flickered 
across his mangled face, so that the scars, and the 
chunk missing from his nose, looked deeper and 
darker than ever. 

Snape was looking down at Moody, and Harry 
couldn’t see the expression on his face. For a 
moment, nobody moved or said anything. Then Snape 
slowly lowered his hands. 

“I merely thought,” said Snape, in a voice of forced 
calm, “that if Potter was wandering around after 
hours again ... it’s an unfortunate habit of his ... he 
should be stopped. For — for his own safety.” 

“Ah, I see,” said Moody softly. “Got Potter’s best 
interests at heart, have you?” 



Page | 523 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




There was a pause. Snape and Moody were still 
staring at each other. Mrs. Norris gave a loud meow, 
still peering around Filch’s legs, looking for the source 
of Harry’s bubble-bath smell. 

“I think I will go back to bed,” Snape said curtly. 

“Best idea you’ve had all night,” said Moody. “Now, 
Filch, if you’ll just give me that egg — ” 

“No!” said Filch, clutching the egg as though it were 
his firstborn son. “Professor Moody, this is evidence of 
Peeves’ treachery!” 

“It’s the property of the champion he stole it from,” 
said Moody. “Hand it over, now.” 

Snape swept downstairs and passed Moody without 
another word. Filch made a chirruping noise to Mrs. 
Norris, who stared blankly at Harry for a few more 
seconds before turning and following her master. Still 
breathing very fast, Harry heard Snape walking away 
down the corridor; Filch handed Moody the egg and 
disappeared from view too, muttering to Mrs. Norris. 
“Never mind, my sweet ... we’ll see Dumbledore in the 
morning ... tell him what Peeves was up to. ...” 

A door slammed. Harry was left staring down at 
Moody, who placed his staff on the bottommost stair 
and started to climb laboriously toward him, a dull 
clunk on every other step. 

“Close shave, Potter,” he muttered. 

“Yeah ... I — er ... thanks,” said Harry weakly. 

“What is this thing?” said Moody, drawing the 
Marauders Map out of his pocket and unfolding it. 



Page | 524 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Map of Hogwarts,” said Harry, hoping Moody was 
going to pull him out of the staircase soon; his leg 
was really hurting him. 

“Merlin’s beard,” Moody whispered, staring at the 
map, his magical eye going haywire. “This ... this is 
some map, Potter!” 

“Yeah, it’s ... quite useful,” Harry said. His eyes were 
starting to water from the pain. “Er — Professor 
Moody, d’you think you could help me — ?” 

“What? Oh! Yes ... yes, of course ...” 

Moody took hold of Harry’s arms and pulled; Harry’s 
leg came free of the trick step, and he climbed onto 
the one above it. Moody was still gazing at the map. 

“Potter ...” he said slowly, “you didn’t happen, by any 
chance, to see who broke into Snape’s office, did you? 
On this map, I mean?” 

“Er ... yeah, I did ...” Harry admitted. “It was Mr. 
Crouch.” 

Moody’s magical eye whizzed over the entire surface of 
the map. He looked suddenly alarmed. 

“Crouch?” he said. “You’re — you’re sure, Potter?” 

“Positive,” said Harry. 

“Well, he’s not here anymore,” said Moody, his eye 
still whizzing over the map. “Crouch ... that’s very — 
very interesting. ...” 

He said nothing for almost a minute, still staring at 
the map. Harry could tell that this news meant 
something to Moody and very much wanted to know 

Page | 525 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




what it was. He wondered whether he dared ask. 
Moody scared him slightly ... yet Moody had just 
helped him avoid an awful lot of trouble. ... 

“Er ... Professor Moody ... why d’you reckon Mr. 
Crouch wanted to look around S nape’s office?” 

Moody’s magical eye left the map and fixed, quivering, 
upon Harry. It was a penetrating glare, and Harry had 
the impression that Moody was sizing him up, 
wondering whether to answer or not, or how much to 
tell him. 

“Put it this way, Potter,” Moody muttered finally, “they 
say old Mad-Eye’s obsessed with catching Dark 
wizards ... but I’m nothing — nothing — compared to 
Barty Crouch.” 

He continued to stare at the map. Harry was burning 
to know more. 

“Professor Moody?” he said again. “D’you think ... 
could this have anything to do with . . . maybe Mr. 
Crouch thinks there’s something going on. ...” 

“Like what?” said Moody sharply. 

Harry wondered how much he dare say. He didn’t 
want Moody to guess that he had a source of 
information outside Hogwarts; that might lead to 
tricky questions about Sirius. 

“I don’t know,” Harry muttered, “odd stuff’s been 
happening lately, hasn’t it? It’s been in the Daily 
Prophet ... the Dark Mark at the World Cup, and the 
Death Eaters and everything. ...” 

Both of Moody’s mismatched eyes widened. 



Page | 526 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re a sharp boy, Potter,” he said. His magical eye 
roved back to the Marauder’s Map. “Crouch could be 
thinking along those lines,” he said slowly. “Very 
possible ... there have been some funny rumors flying 
around lately — helped along by Rita Skeeter, of 
course. It’s making a lot of people nervous, I reckon.” 

A grim smile twisted his lopsided mouth. “Oh if 
there’s one thing I hate,” he muttered, more to himself 
than to Harry, and his magical eye was fixed on the 
left-hand corner of the map, “it’s a Death Eater who 
walked free. ...” 

Harry stared at him. Could Moody possibly mean 
what Harry thought he meant? 

“And now I want to ask you a question, Potter,” said 
Moody in a more businesslike tone. 

Harry’s heart sank; he had thought this was coming. 
Moody was going to ask where he had got this map, 
which was a very dubious magical object — and the 
story of how it had fallen into his hands incriminated 
not only him, but his own father, Fred and George 
Weasley, and Professor Lupin, their last Defense 
Against the Dark Arts teacher. Moody waved the map 
in front of Harry, who braced himself — 

“Can I borrow this?” 

“Oh!” said Harry. 

He was very fond of his map, but on the other hand, 
he was extremely relieved that Moody wasn’t asking 
where he’d got it, and there was no doubt that he 
owed Moody a favor. 

“Yeah, okay.” 



Page | 527 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Good boy,” growled Moody. “I can make good use of 
this ... this might be exactly what I’ve been looking 
for. ... Right, bed, Potter, come on, now. ...” 

They climbed to the top of the stairs together, Moody 
still examining the map as though it was a treasure 
the like of which he had never seen before. They 
walked in silence to the door of Moody’s office, where 
he stopped and looked up at Harry. 

“You ever thought of a career as an Auror, Potter?” 

“No,” said Harry, taken aback. 

“You want to consider it,” said Moody, nodding and 
looking at Harry thoughtfully. “Yes, indeed ... and 
incidentally ... I’m guessing you weren’t just taking 
that egg for a walk tonight?” 

“Er — no,” said Harry, grinning. “I’ve been working 
out the clue.” 

Moody winked at him, his magical eye going haywire 
again. 

“Nothing like a nighttime stroll to give you ideas, 
Potter. ... See you in the morning. ...” 

He went back into his office, staring down at the 
Marauder’s Map again, and closed the door behind 
him. 

Harry walked slowly back to Gryffindor Tower, lost in 
thought about Snape, and Crouch, and what it all 
meant. ... Why was Crouch pretending to be ill, if he 
could manage to get to Hogwarts when he wanted to? 
What did he think Snape was concealing in his office? 



Page | 528 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And Moody thought he, Harry, ought to be an Auror! 
Interesting idea . . . but somehow, Harry thought, as 
he got quietly into his four-poster ten minutes later, 
the egg and the cloak now safely back in his trunk, he 
thought he’d like to check how scarred the rest of 
them were before he chose it as a career. 



Page | 529 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 







THE SECOND TASK 

“You said you’d already worked out that egg clue!” 
said Hermione indignantly. 

“Keep your voice down!” said Harry crossly. “I just 
need to — sort of fine-tune it, all right?” 

He, Ron, and Hermione were sitting at the very back 
of the Charms class with a table to themselves. They 
were supposed to be practicing the opposite of the 
Summoning Charm today — the Banishing Charm. 
Owing to the potential for nasty accidents when 
objects kept flying across the room, Professor Flitwick 
had given each student a stack of cushions on which 
to practice, the theory being that these wouldn’t hurt 
anyone if they went off target. It was a good theory, 
but it wasn’t working very well. Neville’s aim was so 
poor that he kept accidentally sending much heavier 
things flying across the room — Professor Flitwick, for 
instance. 

“Just forget the egg for a minute, all right?” Harry 
hissed as Professor Flitwick went whizzing resignedly 

Page | 530 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



past them, landing on top of a large cabinet. “I’m 
trying to tell you about Snape and Moody. ...” 

This class was an ideal cover for a private 
conversation, as everyone was having far too much 
fun to pay them any attention. Harry had been 
recounting his adventures of the previous night in 
whispered installments for the last half hour. 

“Snape said Moody’s searched his office as well?” Ron 
whispered, his eyes alight with interest as he 
Banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand (it 
soared into the air and knocked Parvati’s hat off). 
“What ... d’you reckon Moody’s here to keep an eye on 
Snape as well as Karkaroff?” 

“Well, I dunno if that’s what Dumbledore asked him 
to do, but he’s definitely doing it,” said Harry, waving 
his wand without paying much attention, so that his 
cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk. 
“Moody said Dumbledore only lets Snape stay here 
because he’s giving him a second chance or 
something. ...” 

“What?” said Ron, his eyes widening, his next cushion 
spinning high into the air, ricocheting off the 
chandelier, and dropping heavily onto Flitwick’s desk. 
“Harry . . . maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name 
in the Goblet of Fire!” 

“Oh Ron,” said Hermione, shaking her head 
sceptically, “we thought Snape was trying to kill 
Harry before, and it turned out he was saving Harry’s 
life, remember?” 

She Banished a cushion and it flew across the room 
and landed in the box they were all supposed to be 
aiming at. Harry looked at Hermione, thinking ... it 
was true that Snape had saved his life once, but the 

Page | 531 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




odd thing was, Snape definitely loathed him, just as 
he’d loathed Harry’s father when they had been at 
school together. Snape loved taking points from 
Harry, and had certainly never missed an opportunity 
to give him punishments, or even to suggest that he 
should be suspended from the school. 

“I don’t care what Moody says,” Hermione went on. 
“Dumbledore’s not stupid. He was right to trust 
Hagrid and Professor Lupin, even though loads of 
people wouldn’t have given them jobs, so why 
shouldn’t he be right about Snape, even if Snape is a 
bit — ” 



“ — evil,” said Ron promptly. “Come on, Hermione, 
why are all these Dark wizard catchers searching his 
office, then?” 

“Why has Mr. Crouch been pretending to be ill?” said 
Hermione, ignoring Ron. “It’s a bit funny, isn’t it, that 
he can’t manage to come to the Yule Ball, but he can 
get up here in the middle of the night when he wants 
to?” 

“You just don’t like Crouch because of that elf, 
Winky,” said Ron, sending a cushion soaring into the 
window. 

“You just want to think Snape’s up to something,” 
said Hermione, sending her cushion zooming neatly 
into the box. 

“I just want to know what Snape did with his first 
chance, if he’s on his second one,” said Harry grimly, 
and his cushion, to his very great surprise, flew 
straight across the room and landed neatly on top of 
Hermione ’s. 



Page | 532 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Obedient to Sirius’s wish of hearing about anything 
odd at Hogwarts, Harry sent him a letter by brown 
owl that night, explaining all about Mr. Crouch 
breaking into Snape’s office, and Moody and Snape’s 
conversation. Then Harry turned his attention in 
earnest to the most urgent problem facing him: how 
to survive underwater for an hour on the twenty- 
fourth of February. 

Ron quite liked the idea of using the Summoning 
Charm again — Harry had explained about Aqua- 
Lungs, and Ron couldn’t see why Harry shouldn’t 
Summon one from the nearest Muggle town. 

Hermione squashed this plan by pointing out that, in 
the unlikely event that Harry managed to learn how 
to operate an Aqua-Lung within the set limit of an 
hour, he was sure to be disqualified for breaking the 
International Code of Wizarding Secrecy — it was too 
much to hope that no Muggles would spot an Aqua- 
Lung zooming across the countryside to Hogwarts. 

“Of course, the ideal solution would be for you to 
Transfigure yourself into a submarine or something,” 
Hermione said. “If only we’d done human 
Transfiguration already! But I don’t think we start 
that until sixth year, and it can go badly wrong if you 
don’t know what you’re doing. ...” 

“Yeah, I don’t fancy walking around with a periscope 
sticking out of my head,” said Harry. “I s’pose I could 
always attack someone in front of Moody; he might do 
it for me. ...” 

“I don’t think he’d let you choose what you wanted to 
be turned into, though,” said Hermione seriously. 

“No, I think your best chance is some sort of charm.” 

So Harry, thinking that he would soon have had 
enough of the library to last him a lifetime, buried 

Page | 533 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




himself once more among the dusty volumes, looking 
for any spell that might enable a human to survive 
without oxygen. However, though he, Ron, and 
Hermione searched through their lunchtimes, 
evenings, and whole weekends — though Harry asked 
Professor McGonagall for a note of permission to use 
the Restricted Section, and even asked the irritable, 
vulture-like librarian, Madam Pince, for help — they 
found nothing whatsoever that would enable Harry to 
spend an hour underwater and live to tell the tale. 

Familiar flutterings of panic were starting to disturb 
Harry now, and he was finding it difficult to 
concentrate in class again. The lake, which Harry had 
always taken for granted as just another feature of 
the grounds, drew his eyes whenever he was near a 
classroom window, a great, iron-gray mass of chilly 
water, whose dark and icy depths were starting to 
seem as distant as the moon. 

Just as it had before he faced the Horntail, time was 
slipping away as though somebody had bewitched the 
clocks to go extra-fast. There was a week to go before 
February the twenty-fourth (there was still time) ... 
there were five days to go (he was bound to find 
something soon) ... three days to go (please let me find 
something . . . please) . . . 

With two days left, Harry started to go off food again. 
The only good thing about breakfast on Monday was 
the return of the brown owl he had sent to Sirius. He 
pulled off the parchment, unrolled it, and saw the 
shortest letter Sirius had ever written to him. 

Send date of next Hogsmeade weekend by return owl. 

Harry turned the parchment over and looked at the 
back, hoping to see something else, but it was blank. 



Page | 534 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Weekend after next,” whispered Hermione, who had 
read the note over Harry’s shoulder. “Here — take my 
quill and send this owl back straight away.” 

Harry scribbled the dates down on the back of 
Sirius’s letter, tied it onto the brown owl’s leg, and 
watched it take flight again. What had he expected? 
Advice on how to survive underwater? He had been so 
intent on telling Sirius all about Snape and Moody he 
had completely forgotten to mention the egg’s clue. 

“What’s he want to know about the next Hogsmeade 
weekend for?” said Ron. 

“Dunno,” said Harry dully. The momentary happiness 
that had flared inside him at the sight of the owl had 
died. “Come on ... Care of Magical Creatures.” 

Whether Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast- 
Ended Skrewts, or because there were now only two 
skrewts left, or because he was trying to prove he 
could do anything that Professor Grubbly-Plank 
could, Harry didn’t know, but Hagrid had been 
continuing her lessons on unicorns ever since he’d 
returned to work. It turned out that Hagrid knew 
quite as much about unicorns as he did about 
monsters, though it was clear that he found their lack 
of poisonous fangs disappointing. 

Today he had managed to capture two unicorn foals. 
Unlike full-grown unicorns, they were pure gold. 
Parvati and Lavender went into transports of delight 
at the sight of them, and even Pansy Parkinson had 
to work hard to conceal how much she liked them. 

“Easier ter spot than the adults,” Hagrid told the 
class. “They turn silver when they’re abou’ two years 
old, an’ they grow horns at aroun’ four. Don’ go pure 
white till they’re full grown, ’round about seven. 

Page | 535 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They’re a bit more trustin’ when they’re babies ... don’ 
mind boys so much. ... C’mon, move in a bit, yeh can 
pat ’em if yeh want ... give ’em a few o’ these sugar 
lumps. ... 

“You okay, Harry?” Hagrid muttered, moving aside 
slightly, while most of the others swarmed around the 
baby unicorns. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“Jus’ nervous, eh?” said Hagrid. 

“Bit,” said Harry. 

“Harry,” said Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his 
shoulder, so that Harry’s knees buckled under its 
weight, “I’d’ve bin worried before I saw yeh take on 
tha’ Horntail, but I know now yeh can do anythin’ yeh 
set yer mind ter. I’m not worried at all. Yeh’re goin’ ter 
be fine. Got yer clue worked out, haven’ yeh?” 

Harry nodded, but even as he did so, an insane urge 
to confess that he didn’t have any idea how to survive 
at the bottom of the lake for an hour came over him. 
He looked up at Hagrid — perhaps he had to go into 
the lake sometimes, to deal with the creatures in it? 
He looked after everything else on the grounds, after 
all — 

“Yeh’re goin’ ter win,” Hagrid growled, patting Harry’s 
shoulder again, so that Harry actually felt himself 
sink a couple of inches into the soft ground. “I know 
it. I can feel it. Yeh’re goin’ ter win, Harry.” 

Harry just couldn’t bring himself to wipe the happy, 
confident smile off Hagrid ’s face. Pretending he was 
interested in the young unicorns, he forced a smile in 



Page | 536 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




return, and moved forward to pat them with the 
others. 



By the evening before the second task, Harry felt as 
though he were trapped in a nightmare. He was fully 
aware that even if, by some miracle, he managed to 
find a suitable spell, he’d have a real job mastering it 
overnight. How could he have let this happen? Why 
hadn’t he got to work on the egg’s clue sooner? Why 
had he ever let his mind wander in class — what if a 
teacher had once mentioned how to breathe 
underwater? 

He sat with Hermione and Ron in the library as the 
sun set outside, tearing feverishly through page after 
page of spells, hidden from one another by the 
massive piles of books on the desk in front of each of 
them. Harry’s heart gave a huge leap every time he 
saw the word “water” on a page, but more often than 
not it was merely “Take two pints of water, half a 
pound of shredded mandrake leaves, and a newt ...” 

“I don’t reckon it can be done,” said Ron’s voice flatly 
from the other side of the table. “There’s nothing. 
Nothing. Closest was that thing to dry up puddles and 
ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere 
near powerful enough to drain the lake.” 

“There must be something,” Hermione muttered, 
moving a candle closer to her. Her eyes were so tired 
she was poring over the tiny print of Olde and 
Forgotten Bewitchments and Charmes with her nose 
about an inch from the page. “They’d never have set a 
task that was undoable.” 

“They have,” said Ron. “Harry, just go down to the 
lake tomorrow, right, stick your head in, yell at the 
merpeople to give back whatever they’ve nicked, and 
see if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate.” 

Page | 537 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s a way of doing it!” Hermione said crossly. 
“There just has to be!” 

She seemed to be taking the library’s lack of useful 
information on the subject as a personal insult; it had 
never failed her before. 

“I know what I should have done,” said Harry, resting, 
facedown, on Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts. “I 
should’ve learned to be an Animagus like Sirius.” 

An Animagus was a wizard who could transform into 
an animal. 

“Yeah, you could’ve turned into a goldfish any time 
you wanted!” said Ron. 

“Or a frog,” yawned Harry. He was exhausted. 

“It takes years to become an Animagus, and then you 
have to register yourself and everything,” said 
Hermione vaguely, now squinting down the index of 
Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions. 
“Professor McGonagall told us, remember ... you’ve 
got to register yourself with the Improper Use of Magic 
Office ... what animal you become, and your 
markings, so you can’t abuse it. ...” 

“Hermione, I was joking,” said Harry wearily. “I know I 
haven’t got a chance of turning into a frog by 
tomorrow morning. ...” 

“Oh this is no use,” Hermione said, snapping shut 
Weird Wizarding Dilemmas. “Who on earth wants to 
make their nose hair grow into ringlets?” 

“I wouldn’t mind,” said Fred Weasley’s voice. “Be a 
talking point, wouldn’t it?” 



Page | 538 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up. Fred and 
George had just emerged from behind some 
bookshelves. 

“What’re you two doing here?” Ron asked. 

“Looking for you,” said George. “McGonagall wants 
you, Ron. And you, Hermione.” 

“Why?” said Hermione, looking surprised. 

“Dunno ... she was looking a bit grim, though,” said 
Fred. 

“We’re supposed to take you down to her office,” said 
George. 

Ron and Hermione stared at Harry, who felt his 
stomach drop. Was Professor McGonagall about to tell 
Ron and Hermione off? Perhaps she’d noticed how 
much they were helping him, when he ought to be 
working out how to do the task alone? 

“Well meet you back in the common room,” Hermione 
told Harry as she got up to go with Ron — both of 
them looked very anxious. “Bring as many of these 
books as you can, okay?” 

“Right,” said Harry uneasily. 

By eight o’clock, Madam Pince had extinguished all 
the lamps and came to chivvy Harry out of the library. 
Staggering under the weight of as many books as he 
could carry, Harry returned to the Gryffindor common 
room, pulled a table into a corner, and continued to 
search. There was nothing in Madcap Magic for 
Wacky Warlocks . . . nothing in A Guide to Medieval 
Sorcery . . . not one mention of underwater exploits in 
An Anthology of Eighteenth-Century Charms, or in 
Page | 539 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dreadful Denizens of the Deep, or Powers You Never 
Knew You Had and What to Do with Them Now You’ve 
Wised Up. 

Crookshanks crawled into Harry’s lap and curled up, 
purring deeply. The common room emptied slowly 
around Harry. People kept wishing him luck for the 
next morning in cheery, confident voices like Hagrid’s, 
all of them apparently convinced that he was about to 
pull off another stunning performance like the one he 
had managed in the first task. Harry couldn’t answer 
them, he just nodded, feeling as though there were a 
golfball stuck in his throat. By ten to midnight, he 
was alone in the room with Crookshanks. He had 
searched all the remaining books, and Ron and 
Hermione had not come back. 

It’s over, he told himself. You can’t do it. You’ll just 
have to go down to the lake in the morning and tell 
the judges. ... 

He imagined himself explaining that he couldn’t do 
the task. He pictured Bagman’s look of round-eyed 
surprise, Karkaroff’s satisfied, yellow-toothed smile. 

He could almost hear Fleur Delacour saying “I knew it 
... ’e is too young, ’e is only a little boy.” He saw Malfoy 
flashing his POTTER STINKS badge at the front of the 
crowd, saw Hagrid’s crestfallen, disbelieving face. ... 

Forgetting that Crookshanks was on his lap, Harry 
stood up very suddenly; Crookshanks hissed angrily 
as he landed on the floor, gave Harry a disgusted 
look, and stalked away with his bottlebrush tail in the 
air, but Harry was already hurrying up the spiral 
staircase to his dormitory. . . . He would grab the 
Invisibility Cloak and go back to the library, he’d stay 
there all night if he had to. ... 



Page | 540 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lumos,” Harry whispered fifteen minutes later as he 
opened the library door. 

Wand tip alight, he crept along the bookshelves, 
pulling down more books — books of hexes and 
charms, books on merpeople and water monsters, 
books on famous witches and wizards, on magical 
inventions, on anything at all that might include one 
passing reference to underwater survival. He carried 
them over to a table, then set to work, searching them 
by the narrow beam of his wand, occasionally 
checking his watch. ... 

One in the morning . . . two in the morning . . . the only 
way he could keep going was to tell himself, over and 
over again, next book ...in the next one . . . the next one 



The mermaid in the painting in the prefects’ 
bathroom was laughing. Harry was bobbing like a 
cork in bubbly water next to her rock, while she held 
his Firebolt over his head. 

“Come and get it!” she giggled maliciously. “Come on, 
jump!” 

“I can’t,” Harry panted, snatching at the Firebolt, and 
