for the seventh year in a row. A huge banner showing 
the Slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the 
High Table. 

When Harry walked in there was a sudden hush, and 
then everybody started talking loudly at once. He 
slipped into a seat between Ron and Hermione at the 
Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that 
people were standing up to look at him. 

Fortunately, Dumbledore arrived moments later. The 
babble died away. 

“Another year gone!” Dumbledore said cheerfully. 

“And I must trouble you with an old man’s wheezing 
waffle before we sink our teeth into our delicious 
feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads 
are all a little fuller than they were . . . you have the 
Page | 342 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




whole summer ahead to get them nice and empty 
before next year starts. ... 

“Now, as I understand it, the House Cup here needs 
awarding, and the points stand thus: In fourth place, 
Gryffindor, with three hundred and twelve points; in 
third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two; 
Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and 
Slytherin, four hundred and seventy- two.” 

A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the 
Slytherin table. Harry could see Draco Malfoy banging 
his goblet on the table. It was a sickening sight. 

“Yes, yes, well done, Slytherin,” said Dumbledore. 
“However, recent events must be taken into account.” 

The room went very still. The Slytherins’ smiles faded 
a little. 

“Ahem,” said Dumbledore. “I have a few last-minute 
points to dish out. Let me see. Yes ... 

“First — to Mr. Ronald Weasley ...” 

Ron went purple in the face; he looked like a radish 
with a bad sunburn. 

"... for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has 
seen in many years, I award Gryffindor House fifty 
points.” 

Gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling; 
the stars overhead seemed to quiver. Percy could be 
heard telling the other prefects, “My brother, you 
know! My youngest brother! Got past McGonagall’s 
giant chess set!” 

At last there was silence again. 

Page | 343 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Second — to Miss Hermione Granger . . . for the use of 
cool logic in the face of fire, I award Gryffindor House 
fifty points.” 

Hermione buried her face in her arms; Harry strongly 
suspected she had burst into tears. Gryffindors up 
and down the table were beside themselves — they 
were a hundred points up. 

“Third — to Mr. Harry Potter ...” said Dumbledore. 

The room went deadly quiet. "... for pure nerve and 
outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor House sixty 
points.” 

The din was deafening. Those who could add up while 
yelling themselves hoarse knew that Gryffindor now 
had four hundred and seventy-two points — exactly 
the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the House 
Cup — if only Dumbledore had given Harry just one 
more point. 

Dumbledore raised his hand. The room gradually fell 
silent. 

“There are all kinds of courage,” said Dumbledore, 
smiling. “It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up 
to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our 
friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Neville 
Longbottom.” 

Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well 
have thought some sort of explosion had taken place, 
so loud was the noise that erupted from the 
Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood up 
to yell and cheer as Neville, white with shock, 
disappeared under a pile of people hugging him. He 
had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor 
before. Harry, still cheering, nudged Ron in the ribs 
and pointed at Malfoy, who couldn’t have looked more 
Page | 344 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




stunned and horrified if he’d just had the Body-Bind 
Curse put on him. 

“Which means,” Dumbledore called over the storm of 
applause, for even Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were 
celebrating the downfall of Slytherin, “we need a little 
change of decoration.” 

He clapped his hands. In an instant, the green 
hangings became scarlet and the silver became gold; 
the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a towering 
Gryffindor lion took its place. Snape was shaking 
Professor McGonagall’s hand, with a horrible, forced 
smile. He caught Harry’s eye and Harry knew at once 
that Snape ’s feelings toward him hadn’t changed one 
jot. This didn’t worry Harry. It seemed as though life 
would be back to normal next year, or as normal as it 
ever was at Hogwarts. 

It was the best evening of Harry’s life, better than 
winning at Quidditch, or Christmas, or knocking out 
mountain trolls ... he would never, ever forget tonight. 

Harry had almost forgotten that the exam results 
were still to come, but come they did. To their great 
surprise, both he and Ron passed with good marks; 
Hermione, of course, had the best grades of the first 
years. Even Neville scraped through, his good 
Herbology mark making up for his abysmal Potions 
one. They had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as 
stupid as he was mean, might be thrown out, but he 
had passed, too. It was a shame, but as Ron said, you 
couldn’t have everything in life. 

And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their 
trunks were packed, Neville’s toad was found lurking 
in a corner of the toilets; notes were handed out to all 
students, warning them not to use magic over the 
holidays (“I always hope they’ll forget to give us 
Page | 345 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




these,” said Fred Weasley sadly); Hagrid was there to 
take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed across 
the lake; they were boarding the Hogwarts Express; 
talking and laughing as the countryside became 
greener and tidier; eating Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor 
Beans as they sped past Muggle towns; pulling off 
their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats; 
pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at 
King’s Cross station. 

It took quite a while for them all to get off the 
platform. A wizened old guard was up by the ticket 
barrier, letting them go through the gate in twos and 
threes so they didn’t attract attention by all bursting 
out of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles. 

“You must come and stay this summer,” said Ron, 
“both of you — I’ll send you an owl.” 

“Thanks,” said Harry, “I’ll need something to look 
forward to.” 

People jostled them as they moved forward toward the 
gateway back to the Muggle world. Some of them 
called: 

“Bye, Harry!” 

“See you, Potter!” 

“Still famous,” said Ron, grinning at him. 

“Not where I’m going, I promise you,” said Harry. 

He, Ron, and Hermione passed through the gateway 
together. 

“There he is, Mom, there he is, look!” 



Page | 346 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




It was Ginny Weasley, Ron’s younger sister, but she 
wasn’t pointing at Ron. 

“Harry Potter!” she squealed. “Look, Mom! I can see 
“Be quiet, Ginny, and it’s rude to point.” 

Mrs. Weasley smiled down at them. 

“Busy year?” she said. 

“Very,” said Harry. “Thanks for the fudge and the 
sweater, Mrs. Weasley.” 

“Oh, it was nothing, dear.” 

“Ready, are you?” 

It was Uncle Vernon, still purple-faced, still 
mustached, still looking furious at the nerve of Harry, 
carrying an owl in a cage in a station full of ordinary 
people. Behind him stood Aunt Petunia and Dudley, 
looking terrified at the very sight of Harry. 

“You must be Harry’s family!” said Mrs. Weasley. 

“In a manner of speaking,” said Uncle Vernon. “Hurry 
up, boy, we haven’t got all day.” He walked away. 

Harry hung back for a last word with Ron and 
Hermione. 

“See you over the summer, then.” 

“Hope you have — er — a good holiday,” said 
Hermione, looking uncertainly after Uncle Vernon, 
shocked that anyone could be so unpleasant. 



Page | 347 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, I will,” said Harry, and they were surprised at 
the grin that was spreading over his face. “ They don’t 
know we’re not allowed to use magic at home. I’m 
going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer...” 



Page | 348 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




