tightly. 

“Seventeen, eh!” said Hagrid as he accepted a bucket- 
sized glass of wine from Fred. “Six years ter the day 
since we met, Harry, d’yeh remember it?” 

“Vaguely,” said Harry, grinning up at him. “Didn’t you 
smash down the front door, give Dudley a pig’s tail, 
and tell me I was a wizard?” 

“I forge’ the details,” Hagrid chortled. “All righ’, Ron, 
Hermione?” 

“We’re fine,” said Hermione. “How are you?” 

“Ar, not bad. Bin busy, we got some newborn 
unicorns, I’ll show yeh when yeh get back — ” Harry 
avoided Ron’s and Hermione’s gazes as Hagrid 
rummaged in his pocket. “Here, Harry — couldn’ 
think what ter get yeh, but then I remembered this.” 
He pulled out a small, slightly furry drawstring pouch 
with a long string, evidently intended to be worn 
around the neck. “Mokeskin. Hide anythin’ in there 
an’ no one but the owner can get it out. They’re rare, 
them.” 

“Hagrid, thanks!” 



Page | 133 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ ’S’nothin’,” said Hagrid with a wave of a dustbin-lid- 
sized hand. “An’ there’s Charlie! Always liked him — 
hey! Charlie!” 

Charlie approached, running his hand slightly 
ruefully over his new, brutally short haircut. He was 
shorter than Ron, thickset, with a number of burns 
and scratches up his muscley arms. 

“Hi, Hagrid, how’s it going?” 

“Bin meanin’ ter write fer ages. How’s Norbert doin’?” 

“Norbert?” Charlie laughed. “The Norwegian 
Ridgeback? We call her Norberta now.” 

“Wha — Norbert’s a girl?” 

“Oh yeah,” said Charlie. 

“How can you tell?” asked Hermione. 

“They’re a lot more vicious,” said Charlie. He looked 
over his shoulder and dropped his voice. “Wish Dad 
would hurry up and get here. Mum’s getting edgy.” 

They all looked over at Mrs. Weasley. She was trying 
to talk to Madame Delacour while glancing repeatedly 
at the gate. 

“I think we’d better start without Arthur,” she called 
to the garden at large after a moment or two. “He 
must have been held up at — oh!” 

They all saw it at the same time: a streak of light that 
came flying across the yard and onto the table, where 
it resolved itself into a bright silver weasel, which 
stood on its hind legs and spoke with Mr. Weasley’s 
voice. 

Page | 134 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Minister of Magic coming with me.” 

The Patronus dissolved into thin air, leaving Fleur’s 
family peering in astonishment at the place where it 
had vanished. 

“We shouldn’t be here,” said Lupin at once. “Harry — 
I’m sorry — I’ll explain another time — ” 

He seized Tonks’s wrist and pulled her away; they 
reached the fence, climbed over it, and vanished from 
sight. Mrs. Weasley looked bewildered. 

“The Minister — but why — ? I don’t understand — ” 

But there was no time to discuss the matter; a second 
later, Mr. Weasley had appeared out of thin air at the 
gate, accompanied by Rufus Scrimgeour, instantly 
recognizable by his mane of grizzled hair. 

The two newcomers marched across the yard toward 
the garden and the lantern- lit table, where everybody 
sat in silence, watching them draw closer. As 
Scrimgeour came within range of the lantern light, 
Harry saw that he looked much older than the last 
time they had met, scraggy and grim. 

“Sorry to intrude,” said Scrimgeour, as he limped to a 
halt before the table. “Especially as I can see that I 
am gate-crashing a party.” 

His eyes lingered for a moment on the giant Snitch 
cake. 

“Many happy returns.” 

“Thanks,” said Harry. 



Page | 135 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I require a private word with you,” Scrimgeour went 
on. “Also with Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss 
Hermione Granger.” 

“Us?” said Ron, sounding surprised. “Why us?” 

“I shall tell you that when we are somewhere more 
private,” said Scrimgeour. “Is there such a place?” he 
demanded of Mr. Weasley. 

“Yes, of course,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked 
nervous. “The, er, sitting room, why don’t you use 
that?” 

“You can lead the way,” Scrimgeour said to Ron. 
“There will be no need for you to accompany us, 
Arthur.” 

Harry saw Mr. Weasley exchange a worried look with 
Mrs. Weasley as he, Ron, and Hermione stood up. As 
they led the way back to the house in silence, Harry 
knew that the other two were thinking the same as he 
was: Scrimgeour must, somehow, have learned that 
the three of them were planning to drop out of 
Hogwarts. 

Scrimgeour did not speak as they all passed through 
the messy kitchen and into the Burrow’s sitting room. 
Although the garden had been full of soft golden 
evening light, it was already dark in here: Harry 
flicked his wand at the oil lamps as he entered and 
they illuminated the shabby but cozy room. 
Scrimgeour sat himself in the sagging armchair that 
Mr. Weasley normally occupied, leaving Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione to squeeze side by side onto the sofa. 
Once they had done so, Scrimgeour spoke. 

“I have some questions for the three of you, and I 
think it will be best if we do it individually. If you two” 

Page | 136 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




— he pointed at Harry and Hermione — “can wait 
upstairs, I will start with Ronald.” 

“We’re not going anywhere,” said Harry, while 
Hermione nodded vigorously. “You can speak to us 
together, or not at all.” 

Scrimgeour gave Harry a cold, appraising look. Harry 
had the impression that the Minister was wondering 
whether it was worthwhile opening hostilities this 
early. 

“Very well then, together,” he said, shrugging. He 
cleared his throat. “I am here, as I’m sure you know, 
because of Albus Dumbledore’s will.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another. 

“A surprise, apparently! You were not aware then that 
Dumbledore had left you anything?” 

“A-all of us?” said Ron. “Me and Hermione too?” 

“Yes, all of—” 

But Harry interrupted. 

“Dumbledore died over a month ago. Why has it taken 
this long to give us what he left us?” 

“Isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione, before Scrimgeour 
could answer. “They wanted to examine whatever he’s 
left us. You had no right to do that!” she said, and her 
voice trembled slightly. 

“I had every right,” said Scrimgeour dismissively. “The 
Decree for Justifiable Confiscation gives the Ministry 
the power to confiscate the contents of a will — ” 



Page | 137 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“That law was created to stop wizards passing on 
Dark artifacts,” said Hermione, “and the Ministry is 
supposed to have powerful evidence that the 
deceased’s possessions are illegal before seizing them! 
Are you telling me that you thought Dumbledore was 
trying to pass us something cursed?” 

“Are you planning to follow a career in Magical Law, 
Miss Granger?” asked Scrimgeour. 

“No, I’m not,” retorted Hermione. “I’m hoping to do 
some good in the world!” 

Ron laughed. Scrimgeour ’s eyes flickered toward him 
and away again as Harry spoke. 

“So why have you decided to let us have our things 
now? Can’t think of a pretext to keep them?” 

“No, it’ll be because the thirty-one days are up,” said 
Hermione at once. “They can’t keep the objects longer 
than that unless they can prove they’re dangerous. 
Right?” 

“Would you say you were close to Dumbledore, 
Ronald?” asked Scrimgeour, ignoring Hermione. Ron 
looked startled. 

“Me? Not — not really ... It was always Harry who ...” 

Ron looked around at Harry and Hermione, to see 
Hermione giving him a stop-talking-now\ sort of look, 
but the damage was done: Scrimgeour looked as 
though he had heard exactly what he had expected, 
and wanted, to hear. He swooped like a bird of prey 
upon Ron’s answer. 

“If you were not very close to Dumbledore, how do you 
account for the fact that he remembered you in his 

Page | 138 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




will? He made exceptionally few personal bequests. 
The vast majority of his possessions — his private 
library, his magical instruments, and other personal 
effects — were left to Hogwarts. Why do you think you 
were singled out?” 

“I ... dunno,” said Ron. “I ... when I say we weren’t 
close ... I mean, I think he liked me. ...” 

“You’re being modest, Ron,” said Hermione. 
“Dumbledore was very fond of you.” 

This was stretching the truth to breaking point; as far 
as Harry knew, Ron and Dumbledore had never been 
alone together, and direct contact between them had 
been negligible. However, Scrimgeour did not seem to 
be listening. He put his hand inside his cloak and 
drew out a drawstring pouch much larger than the 
one Hagrid had given Harry. From it, he removed a 
scroll of parchment which he unrolled and read 
aloud. 

“ ‘The Last Will and Testament of Albus Percival 
Wulfric Brian Dumbledore’ ... Yes, here we are. ... ‘To 
Ronald Bilius Weasley, I leave my Deluminator, in the 
hope that he will remember me when he uses it.’ ” 

Scrimgeour took from the bag an object that Harry 
had seen before: It looked something like a silver 
cigarette lighter, but it had, he knew, the power to 
suck all light from a place, and restore it, with a 
simple click. Scrimgeour leaned forward and passed 
the Deluminator to Ron, who took it and turned it 
over in his fingers, looking stunned. 

“That is a valuable object,” said Scrimgeour, watching 
Ron. “It may even be unique. Certainly it is of 
Dumbledore’s own design. Why would he have left 
you an item so rare?” 

Page | 139 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron shook his head, looking bewildered. 

“Dumbledore must have taught thousands of 
students,” Scrimgeour persevered. “Yet the only ones 
he remembered in his will are you three. Why is that? 
To what use did he think you would put his 
Deluminator, Mr. Weasley?” 

“Put out lights, I s’pose,” mumbled Ron. “What else 
could I do with it?” 

Evidently Scrimgeour had no suggestions. After 
squinting at Ron for a moment or two, he turned back 
to Dumbledore’s will. 

“ To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I leave my copy of 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard, in the hope that she will 
find it entertaining and instructive.’ ” 

Scrimgeour now pulled out of the bag a small book 
that looked as ancient as the copy of Secrets of the 
Darkest Art upstairs. Its binding was stained and 
peeling in places. Hermione took it from Scrimgeour 
without a word. She held the book in her lap and 
gazed at it. Harry saw that the title was in runes; he 
had never learned to read them. As he looked, a tear 
splashed onto the embossed symbols. 

“Why do you think Dumbledore left you that book, 
Miss Granger?” asked Scrimgeour. 

“He ... he knew I liked books,” said Hermione in a 
thick voice, mopping her eyes with her sleeve. 

“But why that particular book?” 

“I don’t know. He must have thought I’d enjoy it.” 



Page | 140 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Did you ever discuss codes, or any means of passing 
secret messages, with Dumbledore?” 



“No, I didn’t,” said Hermione, still wiping her eyes on 
her sleeve. “And if the Ministry hasn’t found any 
hidden codes in this book in thirty-one days, I doubt 
that I will.” 

She suppressed a sob. They were wedged together so 
tightly that Ron had difficulty extracting his arm to 
put it around Hermione ’s shoulders. Scrimgeour 
turned back to the will. 

“ ‘To Harry James Potter,’ ” he read, and Harry’s 
insides contracted with a sudden excitement, “ ‘I leave 
the Snitch he caught in his first Quidditch match at 
Hogwarts, as a reminder of the rewards of 
perseverance and skill.’ ” 

As Scrimgeour pulled out the tiny, walnut-sized 
golden ball, its silver wings fluttered rather feebly, 
and Harry could not help feeling a definite sense of 
anticlimax. 

“Why did Dumbledore leave you this Snitch?” asked 
Scrimgeour. 

“No idea,” said Harry. “For the reasons you just read 
out, I suppose ... to remind me what you can get if 
you ... persevere and whatever it was.” 

“You think this a mere symbolic keepsake, then?” 

“I suppose so,” said Harry. “What else could it be?” 

“I’m asking the questions,” said Scrimgeour, shifting 
his chair a little closer to the sofa. Dusk was really 
falling outside now; the marquee beyond the windows 
towered ghostly white over the hedge. 

Page | 141 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




“I notice that your birthday cake is in the shape of a 
Snitch,” Scrimgeour said to Harry. “Why is that?” 

Hermione laughed derisively. 

“Oh, it can’t be a reference to the fact Harry’s a great 
Seeker, that’s way too obvious,” she said. “There must 
be a secret message from Dumbledore hidden in the 
icing!” 

“I don’t think there’s anything hidden in the icing,” 
said Scrimgeour, “but a Snitch would be a very good 
hiding place for a small object. You know why, I’m 
sure?” 

Harry shrugged. Hermione, however, answered: Harry 
thought that answering questions correctly was such 
a deeply ingrained habit she could not suppress the 
urge. 

“Because Snitches have flesh memories,” she said. 

“What?” said Harry and Ron together; both 
considered Hermione ’s Quidditch knowledge 
negligible. 

“Correct,” said Scrimgeour. “A Snitch is not touched 
by bare skin before it is released, not even by the 
maker, who wears gloves. It carries an enchantment 
by which it can identify the first human to lay hands 
upon it, in case of a disputed capture. This Snitch” — 
he held up the tiny golden ball — “will remember your 
touch, Potter. It occurs to me that Dumbledore, who 
had prodigious magical skill, whatever his other 
faults, might have enchanted this Snitch so that it 
will open only for you.” 



Page | 142 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s heart was beating rather fast. He was sure 
that Scrimgeour was right. How could he avoid taking 
the Snitch with his bare hand in front of the Minister? 



“You don’t say anything,” said Scrimgeour. “Perhaps 
you already know what the Snitch contains?” 

“No,” said Harry, still wondering how he could appear 
to touch the Snitch without really doing so. If only he 
knew Legilimency, really knew it, and could read 
Hermione’s mind; he could practically hear her brain 
whirring beside him. 

“Take it,” said Scrimgeour quietly. 

Harry met the Minister’s yellow eyes and knew he had 
no option but to obey. He held out his hand, and 
Scrimgeour leaned forward again and placed the 
Snitch, slowly and deliberately, into Harry’s palm. 

Nothing happened. As Harry’s fingers closed around 
the Snitch, its tired wings fluttered and were still. 
Scrimgeour, Ron, and Hermione continued to gaze 
avidly at the now partially concealed ball, as if still 
hoping it might transform in some way. 

“That was dramatic,” said Harry coolly. Both Ron and 
Hermione laughed. 

“That’s all, then, is it?” asked Hermione, making to 
prise herself off the sofa. 

“Not quite,” said Scrimgeour, who looked bad- 
tempered now. “Dumbledore left you a second 
bequest, Potter.” 

“What is it?” asked Harry, excitement rekindling. 



Page | 143 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Scrimgeour did not bother to read from the will this 
time. 

“The sword of Godric Gryffindor,” he said. 

Hermione and Ron both stiffened. Harry looked 
around for a sign of the ruby-encrusted hilt, but 
Scrimgeour did not pull the sword from the leather 
pouch, which in any case looked much too small to 
contain it. 

“So where is it?” Harry asked suspiciously. 

“Unfortunately,” said Scrimgeour, “that sword was 
not Dumbledore ’s to give away. The sword of Godric 
Gryffindor is an important historical artifact, and as 
such, belongs — ” 

“It belongs to Harry!” said Hermione hotly. “It chose 
him, he was the one who found it, it came to him out 
of the Sorting Hat — ” 

“According to reliable historical sources, the sword 
may present itself to any worthy Gryffindor,” said 
Scrimgeour. “That does not make it the exclusive 
property of Mr. Potter, whatever Dumbledore may 
have decided.” Scrimgeour scratched his badly 
shaven cheek, scrutinizing Harry. “Why do you think 
— ?” 

“ — Dumbledore wanted to give me the sword?” said 
Harry, struggling to keep his temper. “Maybe he 
thought it would look nice on my wall.” 

“This is not a joke, Potter!” growled Scrimgeour. “Was 
it because Dumbledore believed that only the sword of 
Godric Gryffindor could defeat the Heir of Slytherin? 
Did he wish to give you that sword, Potter, because he 



Page | 144 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




believed, as do many, that you are the one destined to 
destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?” 

“Interesting theory,” said Harry. “Has anyone ever 
tried sticking a sword in Voldemort? Maybe the 
Ministry should put some people onto that, instead of 
wasting their time stripping down Deluminators or 
covering up breakouts from Azkaban. So is this what 
you’ve been doing, Minister, shut up in your office, 
trying to break open a Snitch? People are dying — I 
was nearly one of them — Voldemort chased me 
across three counties, he killed Mad-Eye Moody, but 
there’s been no word about any of that from the 
Ministry, has there? And you still expect us to 
cooperate with you!” 

“You go too far!” shouted Scrimgeour, standing up; 
Harry jumped to his feet too. Scrimgeour limped 
toward Harry and jabbed him hard in the chest with 
the point of his wand: It singed a hole in Harry’s T- 
shirt like a lit cigarette. 

“Oi!” said Ron, jumping up and raising his own wand, 
but Harry said, 

“No! D’you want to give him an excuse to arrest us?” 

“Remembered you’re not at school, have you?” said 
Scrimgeour, breathing hard into Harry’s face. 
“Remembered that I am not Dumbledore, who forgave 
your insolence and insubordination? You may wear 
that scar like a crown, Potter, but it is not up to a 
seventeen-year-old boy to tell me how to do my job! 

It’s time you learned some respect!” 

“It’s time you earned it,” said Harry. 



Page | 145 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The floor trembled; there was a sound of running 
footsteps, then the door to the sitting room burst 
open and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley ran in. 

“We — we thought we heard — ” began Mr. Weasley, 
looking thoroughly alarmed at the sight of Harry and 
the Minister virtually nose to nose. 

“ — raised voices,” panted Mrs. Weasley. 

Scrimgeour took a couple of steps back from Harry, 
glancing at the hole he had made in Harry’s T-shirt. 
He seemed to regret his loss of temper. 

“It — it was nothing,” he growled. “I ... regret your 
attitude,” he said, looking Harry full in the face once 
more. “You seem to think that the Ministry does not 
desire what you — what Dumbledore — desired. We 
ought to be working together.” 

“I don’t like your methods, Minister,” said Harry. 
“Remember?” 

For the second time, he raised his right fist and 
displayed to Scrimgeour the scars that still showed 
white on the back of it, spelling I must not tell lies. 
Scrimgeour ’s expression hardened. He turned away 
without another word and limped from the room. Mrs. 
Weasley hurried after him; Harry heard her stop at 
the back door. After a minute or so she called, “He’s 
gone!” 

“What did he want?” Mr. Weasley asked, looking 
around at Harry, Ron, and Hermione as Mrs. Weasley 
came hurrying back to them. 

“To give us what Dumbledore left us,” said Harry. 
“They’ve only just released the contents of his will.” 



Page | 146 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Outside in the garden, over the dinner tables, the 
three objects Scrimgeour had given them were passed 
from hand to hand. Everyone exclaimed over the 
Deluminator and The Tales of Beedle the Bard and 
lamented the fact that Scrimgeour had refused to 
pass on the sword, but none of them could offer any 
suggestion as to why Dumbledore would have left 
Harry an old Snitch. As Mr. Weasley examined the 
Deluminator for the third or fourth time, Mrs. 

Weasley said tentatively, “Harry, dear, everyone’s 
awfully hungry, we didn’t like to start without you. ... 
Shall I serve dinner now?” 

They all ate rather hurriedly and then, after a hasty 
chorus of “Happy Birthday” and much gulping of 
cake, the party broke up. Hagrid, who was invited to 
the wedding the following day, but was far too bulky 
to sleep in the overstretched Burrow, left to set up a 
tent for himself in a neighboring field. 

“Meet us upstairs,” Harry whispered to Hermione, 
while they helped Mrs. Weasley restore the garden to 
its normal state. “After everyone’s gone to bed.” 

Up in the attic room, Ron examined his Deluminator, 
and Harry filled Hagrid’s mokeskin purse, not with 
gold, but with those items he most prized, apparently 
worthless though some of them were: the Marauder’s 
Map, the shard of Sirius’s enchanted mirror, and 
R.A.B.’s locket. He pulled the strings tight and slipped 
the purse around his neck, then sat holding the old 
Snitch and watching its wings flutter feebly. At last, 
Hermione tapped on the door and tiptoed inside. 

“ Muffliato,” she whispered, waving her wand in the 
direction of the stairs. 

“Thought you didn’t approve of that spell?” said Ron. 



Page | 147 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Times change,” said Hermione. “Now, show us that 
Deluminator.” 

Ron obliged at once. Holding it up in front of him, he 
clicked it. The solitary lamp they had lit went out at 
once. 

“The thing is,” whispered Hermione through the dark, 
“we could have achieved that with Peruvian Instant 
Darkness Powder.” 

There was a small click, and the ball of light from the 
lamp flew back to the ceiling and illuminated them all 
once more. 

“Still, it’s cool,” said Ron, a little defensively. “And 
from what they said, Dumbledore invented it himself!” 

“I know, but surely he wouldn’t have singled you out 
in his will just to help us turn out the lights!” 

“D’you think he knew the Ministry would confiscate 
his will and examine everything he’d left us?” asked 
Harry. 

“Definitely,” said Hermione. “He couldn’t tell us in the 
will why he was leaving us these things, but that still 
doesn’t explain ...” 

"... why he couldn’t have given us a hint when he was 
alive?” asked Ron. 

“Well, exactly,” said Hermione, now flicking through 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard. “If these things are 
important enough to pass on right under the nose of 
the Ministry, you’d think he’d have let us know why 
... unless he thought it was obvious?” 



Page | 148 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Thought wrong, then, didn’t he?” said Ron. “I always 
said he was mental. Brilliant and everything, but 
cracked. Leaving Harry an old Snitch — what the hell 
was that about?” 

“I’ve no idea,” said Hermione. “When Scrimgeour 
made you take it, Harry, I was so sure that something 
was going to happen!” 

“Yeah, well,” said Harry, his pulse quickening as he 
raised the Snitch in his fingers. “I wasn’t going to try 
too hard in front of Scrimgeour, was I?” 

“What do you mean?” asked Hermione. 

“The Snitch I caught in my first ever Quidditch 
match?” said Harry. “Don’t you remember?” 

Hermione looked simply bemused. Ron, however, 
gasped, pointing frantically from Harry to the Snitch 
and back again until he found his voice. 

“That was the one you nearly swallowed!” 

“Exactly,” said Harry, and with his heart beating fast, 
he pressed his mouth to the Snitch. 

It did not open. Frustration and bitter disappointment 
welled up inside him: He lowered the golden sphere, 
but then Hermione cried out. 

“Writing! There’s writing on it, quick, look!” 

He nearly dropped the Snitch in surprise and 
excitement. Hermione was quite right. Engraved upon 
the smooth golden surface, where seconds before 
there had been nothing, were five words written in the 
thin, slanting handwriting that Harry recognized as 
Dumbledore’s: 

Page | 149 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




I open at the close. 

He had barely read them when the words vanished 
again. 

“ ‘I open at the close ...’ What’s that supposed to 
mean?” 

Hermione and Ron shook their heads, looking blank. 

“I open at the close ... at the close ... I open at the 
close ...” 

But no matter how often they repeated the words, 
with many different inflections, they were unable to 
wring any more meaning from them. 

“And the sword,” said Ron finally, when they had at 
last abandoned their attempts to divine meaning in 
the Snitch’s inscription. “Why did he want Harry to 
have the sword?” 

“And why couldn’t he just have told me?” Harry said 
quietly. “It was there, it was right there on the wall of 
his office during all our talks last year! If he wanted 
me to have it, why didn’t he just give it to me then?” 

He felt as though he were sitting in an examination 
with a question he ought to have been able to answer 
in front of him, his brain slow and unresponsive. Was 
there something he had missed in the long talks with 
Dumbledore last year? Ought he to know what it all 
meant? Had Dumbledore expected him to 
understand? 

“And as for this book,” said Hermione, “The Tales of 
Beedle the Bard ... I’ve never even heard of them!” 



Page | 150 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ve never heard of The Tales of Beedle the Bard?” 
said Ron incredulously. “You’re kidding, right?” 



“No, I’m not!” said Hermione in surprise. “Do you 
know them, then?” 

“Well, of course I do!” 

Harry looked up, diverted. The circumstance of Ron 
having read a book that Hermione had not was 
unprecedented. Ron, however, looked bemused by 
their surprise. 

“Oh come on! All the old kids’ stories are supposed to 
be Beedle ’s, aren’t they? The Fountain of Fair 
Fortune’ ... The Wizard and the Hopping Pot’ ... 
‘Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump’ ...” 

“Excuse me?” said Hermione, giggling. “What was that 
last one? 

“Come off it!” said Ron, looking in disbelief from Harry 
to Hermione. “You must’ve heard of Babbitty Rabbitty 



“Ron, you know full well Harry and I were brought up 
by Muggles!” said Hermione. “We didn’t hear stories 
like that when we were little, we heard ‘Snow White 
and the Seven Dwarfs’ and ‘Cinderella’ — ” 

“What’s that, an illness?” asked Ron. 

“So these are children’s stories?” asked Hermione, 
bending again over the runes. 

“Yeah,” said Ron uncertainly, “I mean, that’s just 
what you hear, you know, that all these old stories 
came from Beedle. I dunno what they’re like in the 
original versions.” 

Page | 151 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But I wonder why Dumbledore thought I should read 
them?” 



Something creaked downstairs. 

“Probably just Charlie, now Mum’s asleep, sneaking 
off to regrow his hair,” said Ron nervously. 

“All the same, we should get to bed,” whispered 
Hermione. “It wouldn’t do to oversleep tomorrow.” 

“No,” agreed Ron. “A brutal triple murder by the 
bridegroom’s mother might put a bit of a damper on 
the wedding. I’ll get the lights.” 

And he clicked the Deluminator once more as 
Hermione left the room. 



Page | 152 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE WEDDING 



Three o’clock on the following afternoon found Harry, 
Ron, Fred, and George standing outside the great 
white marquee in the orchard, awaiting the arrival of 
the wedding guests. Harry had taken a large dose of 
Polyjuice Potion and was now the double of a 
redheaded Muggle boy from the local village, Ottery 
St. Catchpole, from whom Fred had stolen hairs using 
a Summoning Charm. The plan was to introduce 
Harry as “Cousin Barny” and trust to the great 
number of Weasley relatives to camouflage him. 

All four of them were clutching seating plans, so that 
they could help show people to the right seats. A host 
of white-robed waiters had arrived an hour earlier, 
along with a golden-jacketed band, and all of these 
wizards were currently sitting a short distance away 
under a tree; Harry could see a blue haze of pipe 
smoke issuing from the spot. 

Behind Harry, the entrance to the marquee revealed 
rows and rows of fragile golden chairs set on either 
side of a long purple carpet. The supporting poles 

Page | 153 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 



were entwined with white and gold flowers. Fred and 
George had fastened an enormous bunch of golden 
balloons over the exact point where Bill and Fleur 
would shortly become husband and wife. Outside, 
butterflies and bees were hovering lazily over the 
grass and hedgerow. Harry was rather uncomfortable. 
The Muggle boy whose appearance he was affecting 
was slightly fatter than him, and his dress robes felt 
hot and tight in the full glare of a summer’s day. 

“When I get married,” said Fred, tugging at the collar 
of his own robes, “I won’t be bothering with any of 
this nonsense. You can all wear what you like, and I’ll 
put a full Body-Bind Curse on Mum until it’s all 
over.” 

“She wasn’t too bad this morning, considering,” said 
George. “Cried a bit about Percy not being here, but 
who wants him? Oh blimey, brace yourselves — here 
they come, look.” 

Brightly colored figures were appearing, one by one, 
out of nowhere at the distant boundary of the yard. 
Within minutes a procession had formed, which 
began to snake its way up through the garden toward 
the marquee. Exotic flowers and bewitched birds 
fluttered on the witches’ hats, while precious gems 
glittered from many of the wizards’ cravats; a hum of 
excited chatter grew louder and louder, drowning the 
sound of the bees as the crowd approached the tent. 

“Excellent, I think I see a few veela cousins,” said 
George, craning his neck for a better look. “They’ll 
need help understanding our English customs, I’ll 
look after them. ...” 

“Not so fast, Your Holeyness,” said Fred, and darting 
past the gaggle of middle-aged witches heading the 
procession, he said, “Here — permettez-moi to assister 

Page | 154 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




vous,” to a pair of pretty French girls, who giggled and 
allowed him to escort them inside. George was left to 
deal with the middle-aged witches and Ron took 
charge of Mr. Weasley’s old Ministry colleague 
Perkins, while a rather deaf old couple fell to Harry’s 
lot. 

“Wotcher,” said a familiar voice as he came out of the 
marquee again and found Tonks and Lupin at the 
front of the queue. She had turned blonde for the 
occasion. “Arthur told us you were the one with the 
curly hair. Sorry about last night,” she added in a 
whisper as Harry led them up the aisle. “The 
Ministry’s being very anti-werewolf at the moment 
and we thought our presence might not do you any 
favors.” 

“It’s fine, I understand,” said Harry, speaking more to 
Lupin than Tonks. Lupin gave him a swift smile, but 
as they turned away, Harry saw Lupin’s face fall again 
into lines of misery. He did not understand it, but 
there was no time to dwell on the matter: Hagrid was 
causing a certain amount of disruption. Having 
misunderstood Fred’s directions he had sat himself, 
not upon the magically enlarged and reinforced seat 
set aside for him in the back row, but on five seats 
that now resembled a large pile of golden 
matchsticks. 

While Mr. Weasley repaired the damage and Hagrid 
shouted apologies to anybody who would listen, Harry 
hurried back to the entrance to find Ron face-to-face 
with a most eccentric-looking wizard. Slightly cross- 
eyed, with shoulder-length white hair the texture of 
candyfloss, he wore a cap whose tassel dangled in 
front of his nose and robes of an eye-watering shade 
of egg-yolk yellow. An odd symbol, rather like a 
triangular eye, glistened from a golden chain around 
his neck. 
