the borrowed wand. Do you know why that is?” 

Ollivander shook his head as slowly as he had just 
nodded. 

“I had ... never heard of such a thing. Your wand 
performed something unique that night. The 
connection of the twin cores is incredibly rare, yet 



Page | 560 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




why your wand should have snapped the borrowed 
wand, I do not know. ...” 

“We were talking about the other wand, the wand that 
changes hands by murder. When You-Know-Who 
realized my wand had done something strange, he 
came back and asked about that other wand, didn’t 
he?” 

“How do you know this?” 

Harry did not answer. 

“Yes, he asked,” whispered Ollivander. “He wanted to 
know everything I could tell him about the wand 
variously known as the Deathstick, the Wand of 
Destiny, or the Elder Wand.” 

Harry glanced sideways at Hermione. She looked 
flabbergasted. 

“The Dark Lord,” said Ollivander in hushed and 
frightened tones, “had always been happy with the 
wand I made him — yew and phoenix feather, 
thirteen-and-a-half inches — until he discovered the 
connection of the twin cores. Now he seeks another, 
more powerful wand, as the only way to conquer 
yours.” 

“But he’ll know soon, if he doesn’t already, that 
mine’s broken beyond repair,” said Harry quietly. 

“No!” said Hermione, sounding frightened. “He can’t 
know that, Harry, how could he — ?” 

“Priori Incantatem,” said Harry. “We left your wand 
and the blackthorn wand at the Malfoys’, Hermione. If 
they examine them properly, make them re-create the 
spells they’ve cast lately, they’ll see that yours broke 

Page | 561 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




mine, they’ll see that you tried and failed to mend it, 
and they’ll realize that I’ve been using the blackthorn 
one ever since.” 

The little color she had regained since their arrival 
had drained from her face. Ron gave Harry a 
reproachful look, and said, “Let’s not worry about 
that now — ” 

But Mr. Ollivander intervened. 

“The Dark Lord no longer seeks the Elder Wand only 
for your destruction, Mr. Potter. He is determined to 
possess it because he believes it will make him truly 
invulnerable.” 

“And will it?” 

“The owner of the Elder Wand must always fear 
attack,” said Ollivander, “but the idea of the Dark 
Lord in possession of the Deathstick is, I must admit 
... formidable.” 

Harry was suddenly reminded of how he had been 
unsure, when they first met, of how much he liked 
Ollivander. Even now, having been tortured and 
imprisoned by Voldemort, the idea of the Dark wizard 
in possession of this wand seemed to enthrall him as 
much as it repulsed him. 

“You — you really think this wand exists, then, Mr. 
Ollivander?” asked Hermione. 

“Oh yes,” said Ollivander. “Yes, it is perfectly possible 
to trace the wand’s course through history. There are 
gaps, of course, and long ones, where it vanishes from 
view, temporarily lost or hidden; but always it 
resurfaces. It has certain identifying characteristics 
that those who are learned in wandlore recognize. 
Page | 562 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There are written accounts, some of them obscure, 
that I and other wandmakers have made it our 
business to study. They have the ring of authenticity.” 

“So you — you don’t think it can be a fairy tale or a 
myth?” Hermione asked hopefully. 

“No,” said Ollivander. “Whether it needs to pass by 
murder, I do not know. Its history is bloody, but that 
may be simply due to the fact that it is such a 
desirable object, and arouses such passions in 
wizards. Immensely powerful, dangerous in the wrong 
hands, and an object of incredible fascination to all of 
us who study the power of wands.” 

“Mr. Ollivander,” said Harry, “you told You-Know-Who 
that Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand, didn’t you?” 

Ollivander turned, if possible, even paler. He looked 
ghostly as he gulped. 

“But how — how do you — ?” 

“Never mind how I know it,” said Harry, closing his 
eyes momentarily as his scar burned and he saw, for 
mere seconds, a vision of the main street in 
Hogsmeade, still dark, because it was so much 
farther north. “You told You-Know-Who that 
Gregorovitch had the wand?” 

“It was a rumor,” whispered Ollivander. “A rumor, 
years and years ago, long before you were born! I 
believe Gregorovitch himself started it. You can see 
how good it would be for business: that he was 
studying and duplicating the qualities of the Elder 
Wand!” 

“Yes, I can see that,” said Harry. He stood up. “Mr. 
Ollivander, one last thing, and then we’ll let you get 

Page | 563 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




some rest. What do you know about the Deathly 
Hallows?” 



“The — the what?” asked the wandmaker, looking 
utterly bewildered. 

“The Deathly Hallows.” 

“I’m afraid I don’t know what you’re talking about. Is 
this still something to do with wands?” 

Harry looked into the sunken face and believed that 
Ollivander was not acting. He did not know about the 
Hallows. 

“Thank you,” said Harry. “Thank you very much. We’ll 
leave you to get some rest now.” 

Ollivander looked stricken. 

“He was torturing me!” he gasped. “The Cruciatus 
Curse ... you have no idea. ...” 

“I do,” said Harry. “I really do. Please get some rest. 
Thank you for telling me all of this.” 

He led Ron and Hermione down the staircase. Harry 
caught a glimpse of Bill, Fleur, Luna, and Dean 
sitting at the table in the kitchen, cups of tea in front 
of them. They all looked up at Harry as he appeared 
in the doorway, but he merely nodded to them and 
continued into the garden, Ron and Hermione behind 
him. The reddish mound of earth that covered Dobby 
lay ahead, and Harry walked back to it, as the pain in 
his head built more and more powerfully. It was a 
huge effort now to close down the visions that were 
forcing themselves upon him, but he knew that he 
would have to resist only a little longer. He would 
yield very soon, because he needed to know that his 
Page | 564 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




theory was right. He must make only one more short 
effort, so that he could explain to Ron and Hermione. 

“Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand a long time ago,” 
he said. “I saw You-Know-Who trying to find him. 
When he tracked him down, he found that 
Gregorovitch didn’t have it anymore: It was stolen 
from him by Grindelwald. How Grindelwald found out 
that Gregorovitch had it, I don’t know — but if 
Gregorovitch was stupid enough to spread the rumor, 
it can’t have been that difficult.” 

Voldemort was at the gates of Hogwarts; Harry could 
see him standing there, and see too the lamp bobbing 
in the pre-dawn, coming closer and closer. 

“And Grindelwald used the Elder Wand to become 
powerful. And at the height of his power, when 
Dumbledore knew he was the only one who could 
stop him, he dueled Grindelwald and beat him, and 
he took the Elder Wand.” 

“Dumbledore had the Elder Wand?” said Ron. “But 
then — where is it now?” 

“At Hogwarts,” said Harry, fighting to remain with 
them in the cliff-top garden. 

“But then, let’s go!” said Ron urgently. “Harry, let’s go 
and get it before he does!” 

“It’s too late for that,” said Harry. He could not help 
himself, but clutched his head, trying to help it resist. 
“He knows where it is. He’s there now.” 

“Harry!” Ron said furiously. “How long have you 
known this — why have we been wasting time? Why 
did you talk to Griphook first? We could have gone — 
we could still go — ” 

Page | 565 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry, and he sank to his knees in the 
grass. “Hermione’s right. Dumbledore didn’t want me 
to have it. He didn’t want me to take it. He wanted me 
to get the Horcruxes.” 

“The unbeatable wand, Harry!” moaned Ron. 

“I’m not supposed to ... I’m supposed to get the 
Horcruxes. ...” 

And now everything was cool and dark: The sun was 
barely visible over the horizon as he glided alongside 
Snape, up through the grounds toward the lake. 

“I shall join you in the castle shortly,” he said in his 
high, cold voice. “Leave me now.” 

Snape bowed and set off back up the path, his black 
cloak billowing behind him. Harry walked slowly, 
waiting for Snape ’s figure to disappear. It would not 
do for Snape, or indeed anyone else, to see where he 
was going. But there were no lights in the castle 
windows, and he could conceal himself ... and in a 
second he had cast upon himself a Disillusionment 
Charm that hid him even from his own eyes. 

And he walked on, around the edge of the lake, taking 
in the outlines of the beloved castle, his first kingdom, 
his birthright. ... 

And here it was, beside the lake, reflected in the dark 
waters. The white marble tomb, an unnecessary blot 
on the familiar landscape. He felt again that rush of 
controlled euphoria, that heady sense of purpose in 
destruction. He raised the old yew wand: How fitting 
that this would be its last great act. 



Page | 566 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The tomb split open from head to foot. The shrouded 
figure was as long and thin as it had been in life. He 
raised the wand again. 

The wrappings fell open. The face was translucent, 
pale, sunken, yet almost perfectly preserved. They 
had left his spectacles on the crooked nose: He felt 
amused derision. Dumbledore’s hands were folded 
upon his chest, and there it lay, clutched beneath 
them, buried with him. 

Had the old fool imagined that marble or death would 
protect the wand? Had he thought that the Dark Lord 
would be scared to violate his tomb? The spiderlike 
hand swooped and pulled the wand from 
Dumbledore’s grasp, and as he took it, a shower of 
sparks flew from its tip, sparkling over the corpse of 
its last owner, ready to serve a new master at last. 



Page | 567 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






SHELL COTTAGE 

Bill and Fleur’s cottage stood alone on a cliff 
overlooking the sea, its walls embedded with shells 
and whitewashed. It was a lonely and beautiful place. 
Wherever Harry went inside the tiny cottage or its 
garden, he could hear the constant ebb and flow of 
the sea, like the breathing of some great, slumbering 
creature. He spent much of the next few days making 
excuses to escape the crowded cottage, craving the 
cliff-top view of open sky and wide, empty sea, and 
the feel of cold, salty wind on his face. 

The enormity of his decision not to race Voldemort to 
the wand still scared Harry. He could not remember, 
ever before, choosing not to act. He was full of doubts, 
doubts that Ron could not help voicing whenever they 
were together. 

“What if Dumbledore wanted us to work out the 
symbol in time to get the wand?” “What if working out 
what the symbol meant made you ‘worthy’ to get the 
Hallows?” “Harry, if that really is the Elder Wand, 
how the hell are we supposed to finish off You-Know- 

P a g e | 568 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Who?” Harry had no answers: There were moments 
when he wondered whether it had been outright 
madness not to try to prevent Voldemort breaking 
open the tomb. He could not even explain 
satisfactorily why he had decided against it: Every 
time he tried to reconstruct the internal arguments 
that had led to his decision, they sounded feebler to 
him. 

The odd thing was that Hermione’s support made him 
feel just as confused as Ron’s doubts. Now forced to 
accept that the Elder Wand was real, she maintained 
that it was an evil object, and that the way Voldemort 
had taken possession of it was repellent, not to be 
considered. 

“You could never have done that, Harry,” she said 
again and again. “You couldn’t have broken into 
Dumbledore’s grave.” 

But the idea of Dumbledore’s corpse frightened Harry 
much less than the possibility that he might have 
misunderstood the living Dumbledore’s intentions. He 
felt that he was still groping in the dark; he had 
chosen his path but kept looking back, wondering 
whether he had misread the signs, whether he should 
not have taken the other way. From time to time, 
anger at Dumbledore crashed over him again, 
powerful as the waves slamming themselves against 
the cliff beneath the cottage, anger that Dumbledore 
had not explained before he died. 

“But is he dead?” said Ron, three days after they had 
arrived at the cottage. Harry had been staring out 
over the wall that separated the cottage garden from 
the cliff when Ron and Hermione had found him; he 
wished they had not, having no wish to join in with 
their argument. 



Page | 569 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, he is, Ron, please don’t start that again!” 

“Look at the facts, Hermione,” said Ron, speaking 
across Harry, who continued to gaze at the horizon. 
“The silver doe. The sword. The eye Harry saw in the 
mirror — ” 

“Harry admits he could have imagined the eye! Don’t 
you, Harry?” 

“I could have,” said Harry without looking at her. 

“But you don’t think you did, do you?” asked Ron. 

“No, I don’t,” said Harry. 

“There you go!” said Ron quickly, before Hermione 
could carry on. “If it wasn’t Dumbledore, explain how 
Dobby knew we were in the cellar, Hermione?” 

“I can’t — but can you explain how Dumbledore sent 
him to us if he’s lying in a tomb at Hogwarts?” 

“I dunno, it could’ve been his ghost!” 

“Dumbledore wouldn’t come back as a ghost,” said 
Harry. There was little about Dumbledore he was sure 
of now, but he knew that much. “He would have gone 
on.” 

“What d’you mean, ‘gone on’?” asked Ron, but before 
Harry could say any more, a voice behind them said, “ 
’Arry?” 

Fleur had come out of the cottage, her long silver hair 
flying in the breeze. 



Page | 570 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ ’Arry, Grip’ook would like to speak to you. ’E eez in 
ze smallest bedroom, ’e says ’e does not want to be 
over’eard.” 

Her dislike of the goblin sending her to deliver 
messages was clear; she looked irritable as she 
walked back around the house. 

Griphook was waiting for them, as Fleur had said, in 
the tiniest of the cottage’s three bedrooms, in which 
Hermione and Luna slept by night. He had drawn the 
red cotton curtains against the bright, cloudy sky, 
which gave the room a fiery glow at odds with the rest 
of the airy, light cottage. 

“I have reached my decision, Harry Potter,” said the 
goblin, who was sitting cross-legged in a low chair, 
drumming its arms with his spindly fingers. “Though 
the goblins of Gringotts will consider it base 
treachery, I have decided to help you — ” 

“That’s great!” said Harry, relief surging through him. 
“Griphook, thank you, we’re really — ” 

“ — in return,” said the goblin firmly, “for payment.” 

Slightly taken aback, Harry hesitated. 

“How much do you want? I’ve got gold.” 

“Not gold,” said Griphook. “I have gold.” 

His black eyes glittered; there were no whites to his 
eyes. 

“I want the sword. The sword of Godric Gryffindor.” 
Harry’s spirits plummeted. 



Page | 571 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You can’t have that,” he said. “I’m sorry.” 

“Then,” said the goblin softly, “we have a problem.” 

“We can give you something else,” said Ron eagerly. 
“I’ll bet the Lestranges have got loads of stuff, you can 
take your pick once we get into the vault.” 

He had said the wrong thing. Griphook flushed 
angrily. 

“I am not a thief, boy! I am not trying to procure 
treasures to which I have no right!” 

“The sword’s ours — ” 

“It is not,” said the goblin. 

“We’re Gryffindors, and it was Godric Gryffindor’s — ” 

“And before it was Gryffindor’s, whose was it?” 
demanded the goblin, sitting up straight. 

“No one’s,” said Ron. “It was made for him, wasn’t it?” 

“No!” cried the goblin, bristling with anger as he 
pointed a long finger at Ron. “Wizarding arrogance 
again! That sword was Ragnuk the First’s, taken from 
him by Godric Gryffindor! It is a lost treasure, a 
masterpiece of goblinwork! It belongs with the 
goblins! The sword is the price of my hire, take it or 
leave it!” 

Griphook glared at them. Harry glanced at the other 
two, then said, “We need to discuss this, Griphook, if 
that’s all right. Could you give us a few minutes?” 

The goblin nodded, looking sour. 



Page | 572 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Downstairs in the empty sitting room, Harry walked 
to the fireplace, brow furrowed, trying to think what 
to do. Behind him, Ron said, “He’s having a laugh. We 
can’t let him have that sword.” 

“It is true?” Harry asked Hermione. “Was the sword 
stolen by Gryffindor?” 

“I don’t know,” she said hopelessly. “Wizarding history 
often skates over what the wizards have done to other 
magical races, but there’s no account that I know of 
that says Gryffindor stole the sword.” 

“It’ll be one of those goblin stories,” said Ron, “about 
how the wizards are always trying to get one over on 
them. I suppose we should think ourselves lucky he 
hasn’t asked for one of our wands.” 

“Goblins have got good reason to dislike wizards, 

Ron,” said Hermione. “They’ve been treated brutally in 
the past.” 

“Goblins aren’t exactly fluffy little bunnies, though, 
are they?” said Ron. “They’ve killed plenty of us. 
They’ve fought dirty too.” 

“But arguing with Griphook about whose race is most 
underhanded and violent isn’t going to make him 
more likely to help us, is it?” 

There was a pause while they tried to think of a way 
around the problem. Harry looked out of the window 
at Dobby’s grave. Luna was arranging sea lavender in 
a jam jar beside the headstone. 

“Okay,” said Ron, and Harry turned back to face him, 
“how’s this? We tell Griphook we need the sword until 
we get inside the vault, and then he can have it. 



Page | 573 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




There’s a fake in there, isn’t there? We switch them, 
and give him the fake.” 

“Ron, he’d know the difference better than we would!” 
said Hermione. “He’s the only one who realized there 
had been a swap!” 

“Yeah, but we could scarper before he realizes — ” 

He quailed beneath the look Hermione was giving 
him. 

“That,” she said quietly, “is despicable. Ask for his 
help, then double-cross him? And you wonder why 
goblins don’t like wizards, Ron?” 

Ron’s ears had turned red. 

“All right, all right! It was the only thing I could think 
of! What’s your solution, then?” 

“We need to offer him something else, something just 
as valuable.” 

“Brilliant. I’ll go and get one of our other ancient 
goblin-made swords and you can gift wrap it.” 

Silence fell between them again. Harry was sure that 
the goblin would accept nothing but the sword, even 
if they had something as valuable to offer him. Yet the 
sword was their one, indispensable weapon against 
the Horcruxes. 

He closed his eyes for a moment or two and listened 
to the rush of the sea. The idea that Gryffindor might 
have stolen the sword was unpleasant to him: He had 
always been proud to be a Gryffindor; Gryffindor had 
been the champion of Muggle-borns, the wizard who 
had clashed with the pureblood-loving Slytherin. ... 
Page | 574 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Maybe he’s lying,” Harry said, opening his eyes 
again. “Griphook. Maybe Gryffindor didn’t take the 
sword. How do we know the goblin version of history’s 
right?” 

“Does it make a difference?” asked Hermione. 
“Changes how I feel about it,” said Harry. 

He took a deep breath. 

“Well tell him he can have the sword after he’s helped 
us get into that vault — but we’ll be careful to avoid 
telling him exactly when he can have it.” 

A grin spread slowly across Ron’s face. Hermione, 
however, looked alarmed. 

“Harry, we can’t — ” 

“He can have it,” Harry went on, “after we’ve used it 
on all of the Horcruxes. I’ll make sure he gets it then. 
I’ll keep my word.” 

“But that could be years!” said Hermione. 

“I know that, but he needn’t. I won’t be lying ... 
really.” 

Harry met her eyes with a mixture of defiance and 
shame. He remembered the words that had been 
engraved over the gateway to Nurmengard: FOR THE 
GREATER GOOD. He pushed the idea away. What 
choice did they have? 

“I don’t like it,” said Hermione. 

“Nor do I, much,” Harry admitted. 



Page | 575 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, I think it’s genius,” said Ron, standing up 
again. “Let’s go and tell him.” 



Back in the smallest bedroom, Harry made the offer, 
careful to phrase it so as not to give any definite time 
for the handover of the sword. Hermione frowned at 
the floor while he was speaking; he felt irritated at 
her, afraid that she might give the game away. 
However, Griphook had eyes for nobody but Harry. 

“I have your word, Harry Potter, that you will give me 
the sword of Gryffindor if I help you?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. 

“Then shake,” said the goblin, holding out his hand. 

Harry took it and shook. He wondered whether those 
black eyes saw any misgivings in his own. Then 
Griphook relinquished him, clapped his hands 
together, and said, “So. We begin!” 

It was like planning to break into the Ministry all over 
again. They settled to work in the smallest bedroom, 
which was kept, according to Griphook’s preference, 
in semidarkness. 

“I have visited the Lestranges’ vault only once,” 
Griphook told them, “on the occasion I was told to 
place inside it the false sword. It is one of the most 
ancient chambers. The oldest Wizarding families store 
their treasures at the deepest level, where the vaults 
are largest and best protected. ...” 

They remained shut in the cupboardlike room for 
hours at a time. Slowly the days stretched into weeks. 
There was problem after problem to overcome, not 
least of which was that their store of Polyjuice Potion 
was greatly depleted. 

Page | 576 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s really only enough left for one of us,” said 
Hermione, tilting the thick mudlike potion against the 
lamplight. 

“That’ll be enough,” said Harry, who was examining 
Griphook’s hand-drawn map of the deepest 
passageways. 

The other inhabitants of Shell Cottage could hardly 
fail to notice that something was going on now that 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione only emerged for 
mealtimes. Nobody asked questions, although Harry 
often felt Bill’s eyes on the three of them at the table, 
thoughtful, concerned. 

The longer they spent together, the more Harry 
realized that he did not much like the goblin. 
Griphook was unexpectedly bloodthirsty, laughed at 
the idea of pain in lesser creatures, and seemed to 
relish the possibility that they might have to hurt 
other wizards to reach the Lestranges’ vault. Harry 
could tell that his distaste was shared by the other 
two, but they did not discuss it: They needed 
Griphook. 

The goblin ate only grudgingly with the rest of them. 
Even after his legs had mended, he continued to 
request trays of food in his room, like the still-frail 
Ollivander, until Bill (following an angry outburst 
from Fleur) went upstairs to tell him that the 
arrangement could not continue. Thereafter Griphook 
joined them at the overcrowded table, although he 
refused to eat the same food, insisting, instead, on 
lumps of raw meat, roots, and various fungi. 

Harry felt responsible: It was, after all, he who had 
insisted that the goblin remain at Shell Cottage so 
that he could question him; his fault that the whole 



Page | 577 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Weasley family had been driven into hiding, that Bill, 
Fred, George, and Mr. Weasley could no longer work. 

“I’m sorry,” he told Fleur, one blustery April evening 
as he helped her prepare dinner. “I never meant you 
to have to deal with all of this.” 

She had just set some knives to work, chopping up 
steaks for Griphook and Bill, who had preferred his 
meat bloody ever since he had been attacked by 
Greyback. While the knives sliced away behind her, 
her somewhat irritable expression softened. 

“ ’Arry, you saved my sister’s life, I do not forget.” 

This was not, strictly speaking, true, but Harry 
decided against reminding her that Gabrielle had 
never been in real danger. 

“Anyway,” Fleur went on, pointing her wand at a pot 
of sauce on the stove, which began to bubble at once, 
“Mr. Ollivander leaves for Muriel’s zis evening. Zat will 
make zings easier. Ze goblin,” she scowled a little at 
the mention of him, “can move downstairs, and you, 
Ron, and Dean can take zat room.” 

“We don’t mind sleeping in the living room,” said 
Harry, who knew that Griphook would think poorly of 
having to sleep on the sofa; keeping Griphook happy 
was essential to their plans. “Don’t worry about us.” 
And when she tried to protest he went on, “We’ll be off 
your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I. We won’t 
need to be here much longer.” 

“But what do you mean?” she said, frowning at him, 
her wand pointing at the casserole dish now 
suspended in midair. “Of course you must not leave, 
you are safe ’ere!” 



Page | 578 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




She looked rather like Mrs. Weasley as she said it, 
and he was glad that the back door opened at that 
moment. Luna and Dean entered, their hair damp 
from the rain outside and their arms full of driftwood. 

"... and tiny little ears,” Luna was saying, “a bit like a 
hippo’s, Daddy says, only purple and hairy. And if 
you want to call them, you have to hum; they prefer a 
waltz, nothing too fast. ...” 

Looking uncomfortable, Dean shrugged at Harry as 
he passed, following Luna into the combined dining 
and sitting room where Ron and Hermione were 
laying the dinner table. Seizing the chance to escape 
Fleur’s questions, Harry grabbed two jugs of pumpkin 
juice and followed them. 

"... and if you ever come to our house I’ll be able to 
show you the horn, Daddy wrote to me about it but I 
haven’t seen it yet, because the Death Eaters took me 
from the Hogwarts Express and I never got home for 
Christmas,” Luna was saying, as she and Dean relaid 
the fire. 

“Luna, we told you,” Hermione called over to her. 
“That horn exploded. It came from an Erumpent, not 
a Crumple-Horned Snorkack — ” 

“No, it was definitely a Snorkack horn,” said Luna 
serenely. “Daddy told me. It will probably have re- 
formed by now, they mend themselves, you know.” 

Hermione shook her head and continued laying down 
forks as Bill appeared, leading Mr. Ollivander down 
the stairs. The wandmaker still looked exceptionally 
frail, and he clung to Bill’s arm as the latter 
supported him, carrying a large suitcase. 



Page | 579 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm going to miss you, Mr. Ollivander,” said Luna, 
approaching the old man. 

“And I you, my dear,” said Ollivander, patting her on 
the shoulder. “You were an inexpressible comfort to 
me in that terrible place.” 

“So, au revoir, Mr. Ollivander,” said Fleur, kissing him 
on both cheeks. “And I wonder whezzer you could 
oblige me by delivering a package to Bill’s Auntie 
Muriel? I never returned ’er tiara.” 

“It will be an honor,” said Ollivander with a little bow, 
“the very least I can do in return for your generous 
hospitality.” 

Fleur drew out a worn velvet case, which she opened 
to show the wandmaker. The tiara sat glittering and 
twinkling in the light from the low-hanging lamp. 

“Moonstones and diamonds,” said Griphook, who had 
sidled into the room without Harry noticing. “Made by 
goblins, I think?” 

“And paid for by wizards,” said Bill quietly, and the 
goblin shot him a look that was both furtive and 
challenging. 

A strong wind gusted against the cottage windows as 
Bill and Ollivander set off into the night. The rest of 
them squeezed in around the table; elbow to elbow 
and with barely enough room to move, they started to 
eat. The fire crackled and popped in the grate beside 
them. Fleur, Harry noticed, was merely playing with 
her food; she glanced at the window every few 
minutes; however, Bill returned before they had 
finished their first course, his long hair tangled by the 
wind. 



Page | 580 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Everything’s fine,” he told Fleur. “Ollivander settled 
in, Mum and Dad say hello. Ginny sends you all her 
love. Fred and George are driving Muriel up the wall, 
they’re still operating an Owl-Order business out of 
her back room. It cheered her up to have her tiara 
back, though. She said she thought we’d stolen it.” 

“Ah, she eez charmante, your aunt,” said Fleur 
crossly, waving her wand and causing the dirty plates 
to rise and form a stack in midair. She caught them 
and marched out of the room. 

“Daddy’s made a tiara,” piped up Luna. “Well, more of 
a crown, really.” 

Ron caught Harry’s eye and grinned; Harry knew that 
he was remembering the ludicrous headdress they 
had seen on their visit to Xenophilius. 

“Yes, he’s trying to re-create the lost diadem of 
Ravenclaw. He thinks he’s identified most of the main 
elements now. Adding the billywig wings really made 
a difference — ” 

There was a bang on the front door. Everyone’s head 
turned toward it. Fleur came running out of the 
kitchen, looking frightened; Bill jumped to his feet, 
his wand pointing at the door; Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione did the same. Silently Griphook slipped 
beneath the table, out of sight. 

“Who is it?” Bill called. 

“It is I, Remus John Lupin!” called a voice over the 
howling wind. Harry experienced a thrill of fear; what 
had happened? “I am a werewolf, married to 
Nymphadora Tonks, and you, the Secret-Keeper of 
Shell Cottage, told me the address and bade me come 
in an emergency!” 

Page | 581 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Lupin,” muttered Bill, and he ran to the door and 
wrenched it open. 

Lupin fell over the threshold. He was white-faced, 
wrapped in a traveling cloak, his graying hair 
windswept. He straightened up, looked around the 
room, making sure of who was there, then cried 
aloud, “It’s a boy! We’ve named him Ted, after Dora’s 
father!” 

Hermione shrieked. 

“Wha — ? Tonks — Tonks has had the baby?” 

“Yes, yes, she’s had the baby!” shouted Lupin. All 
around the table came cries of delight, sighs of relief: 
Hermione and Fleur both squealed, 

“Congratulations!” and Ron said, “Blimey, a baby!” as 
if he had never heard of such a thing before. 

“Yes — yes — a boy,” said Lupin again, who seemed 
dazed by his own happiness. He strode around the 
table and hugged Harry; the scene in the basement of 
Grimmauld Place might never have happened. 

“You’ll be godfather?” he said as he released Harry. 

“M-me?” stammered Harry 

“You, yes, of course — Dora quite agrees, no one 
better — ” 

“I — yeah — blimey — ” 

Harry felt overwhelmed, astonished, delighted; now 
Bill was hurrying to fetch wine, and Fleur was 
persuading Lupin to join them for a drink. 



Page | 582 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I can’t stay long, I must get back,” said Lupin, 
beaming around at them all: He looked years younger 
than Harry had ever seen him. “Thank you, thank 
you, Bill.” 

Bill had soon filled all of their goblets, they stood and 
raised them high in a toast. 

“To Teddy Remus Lupin,” said Lupin, “a great wizard 
in the making!” 

“ ’Oo does ’e look like?” Fleur inquired. 

“I think he looks like Dora, but she thinks he is like 
me. Not much hair. It looked black when he was 
born, but I swear it’s turned ginger in the hour since. 
Probably be blond by the time I get back. Andromeda 
says Tonks’s hair started changing color the day that 
she was born.” He drained his goblet. “Oh, go on 
then, just one more,” he added, beaming, as Bill made 
