put together,” said Ron happily. 

“Well ... who’d send Harry something as expensive as 
that, and not even tell him they’d sent it?” said 
Hermione. 

“Who cares?” said Ron impatiently. “Listen, Harry, 
can I have a go on it? Can I?” 

“I don’t think anyone should ride that broom just yet!” 
said Hermione shrilly. 

Harry and Ron looked at her. 

“What d’you think Harry’s going to do with it — sweep 
the floor?” said Ron. 

But before Hermione could answer, Crookshanks 
sprang from Seamus’s bed, right at Ron’s chest. 

“GET — HIM — OUT — OF — HERE!” Ron bellowed 
as Crookshanks ’s claws ripped his pajamas and 
Scabbers attempted a wild escape over his shoulder. 
Ron seized Scabbers by the tail and aimed a 
misjudged kick at Crookshanks that hit the trunk at 
the end of Harry’s bed, knocking it over and causing 
Ron to hop up and down, howling with pain. 

Crookshanks ’s fur suddenly stood on end. A shrill, 
tinny whistling was filling the room. The Pocket 
Sneakoscope had become dislodged from Uncle 
Vernon’s old socks and was whirling and gleaming on 
the floor. 



Page | 250 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I forgot about that!” Harry said, bending down and 
picking up the Sneakoscope. “I never wear those 
socks if I can help it. ...” 

The Sneakoscope whirled and whistled in his palm. 
Crookshanks was hissing and spitting at it. 

“You’d better take that cat out of here, Hermione,” 
said Ron furiously, sitting on Harry’s bed nursing his 
toe. “Can’t you shut that thing up?” he added to 
Harry as Hermione strode out of the room, 
Crookshanks ’s yellow eyes still fixed maliciously on 
Ron. 

Harry stuffed the Sneakoscope back inside the socks 
and threw it back into his trunk. All that could be 
heard now were Ron’s stifled moans of pain and rage. 
Scabbers was huddled in Ron’s hands. It had been a 
while since Harry had seen him out of Ron’s pocket, 
and he was unpleasantly surprised to see that 
Scabbers, once so fat, was now very skinny; patches 
of fur seemed to have fallen out too. 

“He’s not looking too good, is he?” Harry said. 

“It’s stress!” said Ron. “He’d be fine if that big stupid 
furball left him alone!” 

But Harry, remembering what the woman at the 
Magical Menagerie had said about rats living only 
three years, couldn’t help feeling that unless Scabbers 
had powers he had never revealed, he was reaching 
the end of his life. And despite Ron’s frequent 
complaints that Scabbers was both boring and 
useless, he was sure Ron would be very miserable if 
Scabbers died. 

Christmas spirit was definitely thin on the ground in 
the Gryffindor common room that morning. Hermione 

Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




had shut Crookshanks in her dormitory, but was 
furious with Ron for trying to kick him; Ron was still 
fuming about Crookshanks ’s fresh attempt to eat 
Scabbers. Harry gave up trying to make them talk to 
each other and devoted himself to examining the 
Firebolt, which he had brought down to the common 
room with him. For some reason this seemed to 
annoy Hermione as well; she didn’t say anything, but 
she kept looking darkly at the broom as though it too 
had been criticizing her cat. 

At lunchtime they went down to the Great Hall, to 
find that the House tables had been moved against 
the walls again, and that a single table, set for twelve, 
stood in the middle of the room. Professors 
Dumbledore, McGonagall, Snape, Sprout, and 
Flitwick were there, along with Filch, the caretaker, 
who had taken off his usual brown coat and was 
wearing a very old and rather moldy-looking tailcoat. 
There were only three other students, two extremely 
nervous-looking first years and a sullen-faced 
Slytherin fifth year. 

“Merry Christmas!” said Dumbledore as Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione approached the table. “As there are so 
few of us, it seemed foolish to use the House tables. 

... Sit down, sit down!” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down side by side at 
the end of the table. 

“Crackers!” said Dumbledore enthusiastically, offering 
the end of a large silver noisemaker to Snape, who 
took it reluctantly and tugged. With a bang like a 
gunshot, the cracker flew apart to reveal a large, 
pointed witch’s hat topped with a stuffed vulture. 

Harry, remembering the boggart, caught Ron’s eye 
and they both grinned; Snape ’s mouth thinned and 

Page | 252 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




he pushed the hat toward Dumbledore, who swapped 
it for his wizard’s hat at once. 



“Dig in!” he advised the table, beaming around. 

As Harry was helping himself to roast potatoes, the 
doors of the Great Hall opened again. It was Professor 
Trelawney, gliding toward them as though on wheels. 
She had put on a green sequined dress in honor of 
the occasion, making her look more than ever like a 
glittering, oversized dragonfly. 

“Sibyll, this is a pleasant surprise!” said Dumbledore, 
standing up. 

“I have been crystal gazing, Headmaster,” said 
Professor Trelawney in her mistiest, most faraway 
voice, “and to my astonishment, I saw myself 
abandoning my solitary luncheon and coming to join 
you. Who am I to refuse the promptings of fate? I at 
once hastened from my tower, and I do beg you to 
forgive my lateness. ...” 

“Certainly, certainly,” said Dumbledore, his eyes 
twinkling. “Let me draw you up a chair — ” 

And he did indeed draw a chair in midair with his 
wand, which revolved for a few seconds before falling 
with a thud between Professors Snape and 
McGonagall. Professor Trelawney, however, did not sit 
down; her enormous eyes had been roving around the 
table, and she suddenly uttered a kind of soft scream. 

“I dare not, Headmaster! If I join the table, we shall be 
thirteen! Nothing could be more unlucky! Never forget 
that when thirteen dine together, the first to rise will 
be the first to die!” 



Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well risk it, Sibyll,” said Professor McGonagall 
impatiently. “Do sit down, the turkey’s getting stone 
cold.” 



Professor Trelawney hesitated, then lowered herself 
into the empty chair, eyes shut and mouth clenched 
tight, as though expecting a thunderbolt to hit the 
table. Professor McGonagall poked a large spoon into 
the nearest tureen. 

“Tripe, Sibyll?” 

Professor Trelawney ignored her. Eyes open again, 
she looked around once more and said, “But where is 
dear Professor Lupin?” 

“I’m afraid the poor fellow is ill again,” said 
Dumbledore, indicating that everybody should start 
serving themselves. “Most unfortunate that it should 
happen on Christmas Day.” 

“But surely you already knew that, Sibyll?” said 
Professor McGonagall, her eyebrows raised. 

Professor Trelawney gave Professor McGonagall a very 
cold look. 

“Certainly I knew, Minerva,” she said quietly. “But 
one does not parade the fact that one is All-Knowing. 

I frequently act as though I am not possessed of the 
Inner Eye, so as not to make others nervous.” 

“That explains a great deal,” said Professor 
McGonagall tartly. 

Professor Trelawney’s voice suddenly became a good 
deal less misty. 



Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“If you must know, Minerva, I have seen that poor 
Professor Lupin will not be with us for very long. He 
seems aware, himself, that his time is short. He 
positively fled when I offered to crystal gaze for him — 



“Imagine that,” said Professor McGonagall dryly. 

“I doubt,” said Dumbledore, in a cheerful but slightly 
raised voice, which put an end to Professor 
McGonagall and Professor Trelawney’s conversation, 
“that Professor Lupin is in any immediate danger. 
Severus, you’ve made the potion for him again?” 

“Yes, Headmaster,” said Snape. 

“Good,” said Dumbledore. “Then he should be up and 
about in no time. ... Derek, have you had any of these 
chipolatas? They’re excellent.” 

The first-year boy went furiously red on being 
addressed directly by Dumbledore, and took the 
platter of sausages with trembling hands. 

Professor Trelawney behaved almost normally until 
the very end of Christmas dinner, two hours later. 

Full to bursting with Christmas dinner and still 
wearing their party hats, Harry and Ron got up first 
from the table and she shrieked loudly. 

“My dears! Which of you left his seat first? Which?” 

“Dunno,” said Ron, looking uneasily at Harry. 

“I doubt it will make much difference,” said Professor 
McGonagall coldly, “unless a mad axe-man is waiting 
outside the doors to slaughter the first into the 
entrance hall.” 



Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Even Ron laughed. Professor Trelawney looked highly 
affronted. 

“Coming?” Harry said to Hermione. 

“No,” Hermione muttered, “I want a quick word with 
Professor McGonagall.” 

“Probably trying to see if she can take any more 
classes,” yawned Ron as they made their way into the 
entrance hall, which was completely devoid of mad 
axe-men. 

When they reached the portrait hole, they found Sir 
Cadogan enjoying a Christmas party with a couple of 
monks, several previous headmasters of Hogwarts, 
and his fat pony. He pushed up his visor and toasted 
them with a flagon of mead. 

“Merry — hie — Christmas! Password?” 

“Scurvy cur,” said Ron. 

“And the same to you, sir!” roared Sir Cadogan as the 
painting swung forward to admit them. 

Harry went straight up to the dormitory, collected the 
Firebolt and the Broomstick Servicing Kit Hermione 
had given him for his birthday, brought them 
downstairs, and tried to find something to do to the 
Firebolt; however, there were no bent twigs to clip, 
and the handle was so shiny already it seemed 
pointless to polish it. He and Ron simply sat admiring 
it from every angle until the portrait hole opened, and 
Hermione came in, accompanied by Professor 
McGonagall. 

Though Professor McGonagall was head of Gryffindor 
House, Harry had seen her in the common room only 

Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




once before, and that had been to make a very grave 
announcement. He and Ron stared at her, both 
holding the Firebolt. Hermione walked around them, 
sat down, picked up the nearest book, and hid her 
face behind it. 

“So that’s it, is it?” said Professor McGonagall beadily, 
walking over to the fireside and staring at the 
Firebolt. “Miss Granger has just informed me that you 
have been sent a broomstick, Potter.” 

Harry and Ron looked around at Hermione. They 
could see her forehead reddening over the top of her 
book, which was upside down. 

“May I?” said Professor McGonagall, but she didn’t 
wait for an answer before pulling the Firebolt out of 
their hands. She examined it carefully from handle to 
twig-ends. “Hmm. And there was no note at all, 

Potter? No card? No message of any kind?” 

“No,” said Harry blankly. 

“I see ... ,” said Professor McGonagall. “Well, I’m 
afraid I will have to take this, Potter.” 

“W — what?” said Harry, scrambling to his feet. 
“Why?” 

“It will need to be checked for jinxes,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “Of course, I’m no expert, but I daresay 
Madam Hooch and Professor Flitwick will strip it 
down — ” 

“Strip it down?” repeated Ron, as though Professor 
McGonagall was mad. 



Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It shouldn’t take more than a few weeks,” said 
Professor McGonagall. “You will have it back if we are 
sure it is jinx-free.” 

“There’s nothing wrong with it!” said Harry, his voice 
shaking slightly. “Honestly, Professor — ” 

“You can’t know that, Potter,” said Professor 
McGonagall, quite kindly, “not until you’ve flown it, at 
any rate, and I’m afraid that is out of the question 
until we are certain that it has not been tampered 
with. I shall keep you informed.” 

Professor McGonagall turned on her heel and carried 
the Firebolt out of the portrait hole, which closed 
behind her. Harry stood staring after her, the tin of 
High-Finish Polish still clutched in his hands. Ron, 
however, rounded on Hermione. 

“What did you go running to McGonagall for?” 

Hermione threw her book aside. She was still pink in 
the face, but stood up and faced Ron defiantly. 

“Because I thought — and Professor McGonagall 
agrees with me — that that broom was probably sent 
to Harry by Sirius Black!” 



Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 





THE PATRONUS 

Harry knew that Hermione had meant well, but that 
didn’t stop him from being angry with her. He had 
been the owner of the best broom in the world for a 
few short hours, and now, because of her 
interference, he didn’t know whether he would ever 
see it again. He was positive that there was nothing 
wrong with the Firebolt now, but what sort of state 
would it be in once it had been subjected to all sorts 
of anti-jinx tests? 

Ron was furious with Hermione too. As far as he was 
concerned, the stripping-down of a brand-new 
Firebolt was nothing less than criminal damage. 
Hermione, who remained convinced that she had 
acted for the best, started avoiding the common room. 
Harry and Ron supposed she had taken refuge in the 
library and didn’t try to persuade her to come back. 
All in all, they were glad when the rest of the school 
returned shortly after New Year, and Gryffindor Tower 
became crowded and noisy again. 



Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Wood sought Harry out on the night before term 
started. 



“Had a good Christmas?” he said, and then, without 
waiting for an answer, he sat down, lowered his voice, 
and said, “I’ve been doing some thinking over 
Christmas, Harry. After the last match, you know. If 
the dementors come to the next one ... I mean . . . we 
can’t afford you to — well — ” 

Wood broke off, looking awkward. 

“I’m working on it,” said Harry quickly. “Professor 
Lupin said he’d train me to ward off the dementors. 
We should be starting this week. He said he’d have 
time after Christmas.” 

“Ah,” said Wood, his expression clearing. “Well, in 
that case — I really didn’t want to lose you as Seeker, 
Harry. And have you ordered a new broom yet?” 

“No,” said Harry. 

“What! You’d better get a move on, you know — you 
can’t ride that Shooting Star against Ravenclaw!” 

“He got a Firebolt for Christmas,” said Ron. 

“A Firebolt? No! Seriously? A — a real Firebolt?” 

“Don’t get excited, Oliver,” said Harry gloomily. “I 
haven’t got it anymore. It was confiscated.” And he 
explained all about how the Firebolt was now being 
checked for jinxes. 

“Jinxed? How could it be jinxed?” 



Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius Black,” Harry said wearily. “He’s supposed to 
be after me. So McGonagall reckons he might have 
sent it.” 

Waving aside the information that a famous murderer 
was after his Seeker, Wood said, “But Black couldn’t 
have bought a Firebolt! He’s on the run! The whole 
country’s on the lookout for him! How could he just 
walk into Quality Quidditch Supplies and buy a 
broomstick?” 

“I know,” said Harry, “but McGonagall still wants to 
strip it down — ” 

Wood went pale. 

“I’ll go and talk to her, Harry,” he promised. “I’ll make 
her see reason. ... A Firebolt ... a real Firebolt, on our 
team . . . She wants Gryffindor to win as much as we 
do. ... I’ll make her see sense. A Firebolt ...” 

Classes started again the next day. The last thing 
anyone felt like doing was spending two hours on the 
grounds on a raw January morning, but Hagrid had 
provided a bonfire full of salamanders for their 
enjoyment, and they spent an unusually good lesson 
collecting dry wood and leaves to keep the fire blazing 
while the flame-loving lizards scampered up and 
down the crumbling, white-hot logs. The first 
Divination lesson of the new term was much less fun; 
Professor Trelawney was now teaching them 
palmistry, and she lost no time in informing Harry 
that he had the shortest life line she had ever seen. 

It was Defense Against the Dark Arts that Harry was 
keen to get to; after his conversation with Wood, he 
wanted to get started on his anti-dementor lessons as 
soon as possible. 



Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah yes,” said Lupin, when Harry reminded him of his 
promise at the end of class. “Let me see ... how about 
eight o’clock on Thursday evening? The History of 
Magic classroom should be large enough. ... I’ll have 
to think carefully about how we’re going to do this. ... 
We can’t bring a real dementor into the castle to 
practice on. ...” 

“Still looks ill, doesn’t he?” said Ron as they walked 
down the corridor, heading to dinner. “What d’you 
reckon ’s the matter with him?” 

There was a loud and impatient “tuh” from behind 
them. It was Hermione, who had been sitting at the 
feet of a suit of armor, repacking her bag, which was 
so full of books it wouldn’t close. 

“And what are you tutting at us for?” said Ron 
irritably. 

“Nothing,” said Hermione in a lofty voice, heaving her 
bag back over her shoulder. 

“Yes, you were,” said Ron. “I said I wonder what’s 
wrong with Lupin, and you — ” 

“Well, isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione, with a look of 
maddening superiority. 

“If you don’t want to tell us, don’t,” snapped Ron. 

“Fine,” said Hermione haughtily, and she marched off. 

“She doesn’t know,” said Ron, staring resentfully after 
Hermione. “She’s just trying to get us to talk to her 
again.” 

At eight o’clock on Thursday evening, Harry left 
Gryffindor Tower for the History of Magic classroom. 

Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




It was dark and empty when he arrived, but he lit the 
lamps with his wand and had waited only five 
minutes when Professor Lupin turned up, carrying a 
large packing case, which he heaved onto Professor 
Binns’ desk. 

“What’s that?” said Harry. 

“Another boggart,” said Lupin, stripping off his cloak. 
“I’ve been combing the castle ever since Tuesday, and 
very luckily, I found this one lurking inside Mr. Filch’s 
filing cabinet. It’s the nearest we’ll get to a real 
dementor. The boggart will turn into a dementor when 
he sees you, so we’ll be able to practice on him. I can 
store him in my office when we’re not using him; 
there’s a cupboard under my desk he’ll like.” 

“Okay,” said Harry, trying to sound as though he 
wasn’t apprehensive at all and merely glad that Lupin 
had found such a good substitute for a real dementor. 

“So ...” Professor Lupin had taken out his own wand, 
and indicated that Harry should do the same. “The 
spell I am going to try and teach you is highly 
advanced magic, Harry — well beyond Ordinary 
Wizarding Level. It is called the Patronus Charm.” 

“How does it work?” said Harry nervously. 

“Well, when it works correctly, it conjures up a 
Patronus,” said Lupin, “which is a kind of anti- 
dementor — a guardian that acts as a shield between 
you and the dementor.” 

Harry had a sudden vision of himself crouching 
behind a Hagrid-sized figure holding a large club. 
Professor Lupin continued, “The Patronus is a kind of 
positive force, a projection of the very things that the 
dementor feeds upon — hope, happiness, the desire 
Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




to survive — but it cannot feel despair, as real 
humans can, so the dementors can’t hurt it. But I 
must warn you, Harry, that the charm might be too 
advanced for you. Many qualified wizards have 
difficulty with it.” 

“What does a Patronus look like?” said Harry 
curiously. 

“Each one is unique to the wizard who conjures it.” 
“And how do you conjure it?” 

“With an incantation, which will work only if you are 
concentrating, with all your might, on a single, very 
happy memory.” 

Harry cast his mind about for a happy memory. 
Certainly, nothing that had happened to him at the 
Dursleys’ was going to do. Finally, he settled on the 
moment when he had first ridden a broomstick. 

“Right,” he said, trying to recall as exactly as possible 
the wonderful, soaring sensation of his stomach. 

“The incantation is this — ” Lupin cleared his throat. 
“Expecto patronum).” 

“Expecto patronum,” Harry repeated under his breath, 
“expecto patronum.” 

“Concentrating hard on your happy memory?” 

“Oh — yeah — ” said Harry, quickly forcing his 
thoughts back to that first broom ride. “Expecto 
patrono — no, patronum — sorry — expecto patronum, 
expecto patronum — ” 



Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Something whooshed suddenly out of the end of his 
wand; it looked like a wisp of silvery gas. 



“Did you see that?” said Harry excitedly. “Something 
happened!” 

“Very good,” said Lupin, smiling. “Right, then — ready 
to try it on a dementor?” 

“Yes,” Harry said, gripping his wand very tightly, and 
moving into the middle of the deserted classroom. He 
tried to keep his mind on flying, but something else 
kept intruding. . . . Any second now, he might hear his 
mother again . . . but he shouldn’t think that, or he 
would hear her again, and he didn’t want to ... or did 
he? 

Lupin grasped the lid of the packing case and pulled. 

A dementor rose slowly from the box, its hooded face 
turned toward Harry, one glistening, scabbed hand 
gripping its cloak. The lamps around the classroom 
flickered and went out. The dementor stepped from 
the box and started to sweep silently toward Harry, 
drawing a deep, rattling breath. A wave of piercing 
cold broke over him — 

“Expecto patronurrd” Harry yelled. “Expecto patronum). 
Expecto — ” 

But the classroom and the dementor were dissolving. 

. . . Harry was falling again through thick white fog, 
and his mother’s voice was louder than ever, echoing 
inside his head — “ Not Harry\ Not Harry\ Please — I’ll 
do anything — ” 

“Stand aside. Stand aside, girl\” 

“Harry!” 

Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry jerked back to life. He was lying flat on his back 
on the floor. The classroom lamps were alight again. 
He didn’t have to ask what had happened. 

“Sorry,” he muttered, sitting up and feeling cold sweat 
trickling down behind his glasses. 

“Are you all right?” said Lupin. 

“Yes ...” Harry pulled himself up on one of the desks 
and leaned against it. 

“Here — ” Lupin handed him a Chocolate Frog. “Eat 
this before we try again. I didn’t expect you to do it 
your first time; in fact, I would have been astounded if 
you had.” 

“It’s getting worse,” Harry muttered, biting off the 
Frog’s head. “I could hear her louder that time — and 
him — Voldemort — ” 

Lupin looked paler than usual. 

“Harry, if you don’t want to continue, I will more than 
understand — ” 

“I do!” said Harry fiercely, stuffing the rest of the 
Chocolate Frog into his mouth. “I’ve got to! What if 
the dementors turn up at our match against 
Ravenclaw? I can’t afford to fall off again. If we lose 
this game we’ve lost the Quidditch Cup!” 

“All right then ... ,” said Lupin. “You might want to 
select another memory, a happy memory, I mean, to 
concentrate on. ... That one doesn’t seem to have 
been strong enough. ...” 

Harry thought hard and decided his feelings when 
Gryffindor had won the House Championship last 

Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




year had definitely qualified as very happy. He 
gripped his wand tightly again and took up his 
position in the middle of the classroom. 

“Ready?” said Lupin, gripping the box lid. 

“Ready,” said Harry, trying hard to fill his head with 
happy thoughts about Gryffindor winning, and not 
dark thoughts about what was going to happen when 
the box opened. 

“Go!” said Lupin, pulling off the lid. The room went 
icily cold and dark once more. The dementor glided 
forward, drawing its breath; one rotting hand was 
extending toward Harry — 

“Expecto patronum).” Harry yelled. “Expecto patronuml 
Expecto pat — ” 

White fog obscured his senses . . . big, blurred shapes 
were moving around him ... then came a new voice, a 
man’s voice, shouting, panicking — 

“Lily, take Harry and go\ It’s him\ Go! Run\ I’ll hold him 

off~ 

The sounds of someone stumbling from a room — a 
door bursting open — a cackle of high-pitched 
laughter — 

“Harry! Harry ... wake up. ...” 

Lupin was tapping Harry hard on the face. This time 
it was a minute before Harry understood why he was 
lying on a dusty classroom floor. 

“I heard my dad,” Harry mumbled. “That’s the first 
time I’ve ever heard him — he tried to take on 



Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort himself, to give my mum time to run for it. 



Harry suddenly realized that there were tears on his 
face mingling with the sweat. He bent his face as low 
as possible, wiping them off on his robes, pretending 
to do up his shoelace, so that Lupin wouldn’t see. 

“You heard James?” said Lupin in a strange voice. 

“Yeah ...” Face dry, Harry looked up. “Why — you 
didn’t know my dad, did you?” 

“I — I did, as a matter of fact,” said Lupin. “We were 
friends at Hogwarts. Listen, Harry — perhaps we 
should leave it here for tonight. This charm is 
ridiculously advanced. ... I shouldn’t have suggested 
putting you through this. ...” 

“No!” said Harry. He got up again. “I’ll have one more 
go! I’m not thinking of happy enough things, that’s 
what it is. ... Hang on. ...” 

He racked his brains. A really, really happy memory 
. . . one that he could turn into a good, strong 
Patronus ... 

The moment when he’d first found out he was a 
wizard, and would be leaving the Dursleys for 
Hogwarts! If that wasn’t a happy memory, he didn’t 
know what was. ... Concentrating very hard on how 
he had felt when he’d realized he’d be leaving Privet 
Drive, Harry got to his feet and faced the packing case 
once more. 

“Ready?” said Lupin, who looked as though he were 
doing this against his better judgment. 

“Concentrating hard? All right — go!” 



Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He pulled off the lid of the case for the third time, and 
the dementor rose out of it; the room fell cold and 
dark — 

“EXPECTO PATRONUM ” Harry bellowed. “ EXPECTO 
PATRONUM EXPECTO PATRONUM ” 

The screaming inside Harry’s head had started again 
— except this time, it sounded as though it were 
coming from a badly tuned radio — softer and louder 
and softer again — and he could still see the 
dementor — it had halted — and then a huge, silver 
shadow came bursting out of the end of Harry’s wand, 
to hover between him and the dementor, and though 
Harry’s legs felt like water, he was still on his feet — 
though for how much longer, he wasn’t sure — 

“ RiddikulusV’ roared Lupin, springing forward. 

There was a loud crack, and Harry’s cloudy Patronus 
vanished along with the dementor; he sank into a 
chair, feeling as exhausted as if he’d just run a mile, 
and felt his legs shaking. Out of the corner of his eye, 
he saw Professor Lupin forcing the boggart back into 
the packing case with his wand; it had turned into a 
silvery orb again. 

“Excellent!” Lupin said, striding over to where Harry 
sat. “Excellent, Harry! That was definitely a start!” 

“Can we have another go? Just one more go?” 

“Not now,” said Lupin firmly. “You’ve had enough for 
one night. Here — ” 

He handed Harry a large bar of Honeydukes’ best 
chocolate. 



Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Eat the lot, or Madam Pomfrey will be after my blood. 
Same time next week?” 

“Okay,” said Harry. He took a bite of the chocolate 
and watched Lupin extinguishing the lamps that had 
rekindled with the disappearance of the dementor. A 
thought had just occurred to him. 

“Professor Lupin?” he said. “If you knew my dad, you 
must’ve known Sirius Black as well.” 

Lupin turned very quickly. 

“What gives you that idea?” he said sharply. 

“Nothing — I mean, I just knew they were friends at 
Hogwarts too. ...” 

Lupin’s face relaxed. 

“Yes, I knew him,” he said shortly. “Or I thought I did. 
You’d better be off, Harry, it’s getting late.” 

Harry left the classroom, walking along the corridor 
and around a corner, then took a detour behind a 
suit of armor and sank down on its plinth to finish 
his chocolate, wishing he hadn’t mentioned Black, as 
Lupin was obviously not keen on the subject. Then 
Harry’s thoughts wandered back to his mother and 
father. ... 

He felt drained and strangely empty, even though he 
was so full of chocolate. Terrible though it was to hear 
his parents’ last moments replayed inside his head, 
these were the only times Harry had heard their 
voices since he was a very small child. But he’d never 
be able to produce a proper Patronus if he half 
wanted to hear his parents again. ... 



Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re dead,” he told himself sternly. “They’re dead 
and listening to echoes of them won’t bring them 
back. You’d better get a grip on yourself if you want 
that Quidditch Cup.” 

He stood up, crammed the last bit of chocolate into 
his mouth, and headed back to Gryffindor Tower. 

Ravenclaw played Slytherin a week after the start of 
term. Slytherin won, though narrowly. According to 
Wood, this was good news for Gryffindor, who would 
take second place if they beat Ravenclaw too. He 
therefore increased the number of team practices to 
five a week. This meant that with Lupin’s anti- 
dementor classes, which in themselves were more 
draining than six Quidditch practices, Harry had just 
one night a week to do all his homework. Even so, he 
wasn’t showing the strain nearly as much as 
Hermione, whose immense workload finally seemed to 
be getting to her. Every night, without fail, Hermione 
was to be seen in a corner of the common room, 
several tables spread with books, Arithmancy charts, 
rune dictionaries, diagrams of Muggles lifting heavy 
objects, and file upon file of extensive notes; she 
barely spoke to anybody and snapped when she was 
interrupted. 

“How’s she doing it?” Ron muttered to Harry one 
evening as Harry sat finishing a nasty essay on 
Undetectable Poisons for Snape. Harry looked up. 
Hermione was barely visible behind a tottering pile of 
books. 

“Doing what?” 

“Getting to all her classes!” Ron said. “I heard her 
talking to Professor Vector, that Arithmancy witch, 
this morning. They were going on about yesterday’s 
lesson, but Hermione can’t’ve been there, because she 

Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




was with us in Care of Magical Creatures! And Ernie 
McMillan told me she’s never missed a Muggle 
Studies class, but half of them are at the same time 
as Divination, and she’s never missed one of them 
either!” 

Harry didn’t have time to fathom the mystery of 
Hermione’s impossible schedule at the moment; he 
really needed to get on with Snape’s essay. Two 
seconds later, however, he was interrupted again, this 
time by Wood. 

“Bad news, Harry. I’ve just been to see Professor 
McGonagall about the Firebolt. She — er — got a bit 
shirty with me. Told me I’d got my priorities wrong. 
Seemed to think I cared more about winning the Cup 
than I do about you staying alive. Just because I told 
her I didn’t care if it threw you off, as long as you 
caught the Snitch first.” Wood shook his head in 
disbelief. “Honestly, the way she was yelling at me . . . 
you’d think I’d said something terrible. ... Then I 
