


Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The spell hit the skrewt’s armor and rebounded; 

Harry ducked just in time, but could smell burning 
hair; it had singed the top of his head. The skrewt 
issued a blast of fire from its end and flew forward 
toward him. 

“ Impedimental ” Harry yelled. The spell hit the skrewt’s 
armor again and ricocheted off; Harry staggered back 
a few paces and fell over. a IMPEDIMENT A\” 

The skrewt was inches from him when it froze — he 
had managed to hit it on its fleshy, shell-less 
underside. Panting, Harry pushed himself away from 
it and ran, hard, in the opposite direction — the 
Impediment Curse was not permanent; the skrewt 
would be regaining the use of its legs at any moment. 

He took a left path and hit a dead end, a right, and 
hit another; forcing himself to stop, heart hammering, 
he performed the Four-Point Spell again, 
backtracked, and chose a path that would take him 
northwest. 

He had been hurrying along the new path for a few 
minutes, when he heard something in the path 
running parallel to his own that made him stop dead. 

“What are you doing?” yelled Cedric’s voice. “What the 
hell d’you think you’re doing?” 

And then Harry heard Krum’s voice. 

“ Crucio \ ” 

The air was suddenly full of Cedric’s yells. Horrified, 
Harry began sprinting up his path, trying to find a 
way into Cedric’s. When none appeared, he tried the 
Reductor Curse again. It wasn’t very effective, but it 
burned a small hole in the hedge through which 
Page | 692 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry forced his leg, kicking at the thick brambles 
and branches until they broke and made an opening; 
he struggled through it, tearing his robes, and looking 
to his right, saw Cedric jerking and twitching on the 
ground, Krum standing over him. 

Harry pulled himself up and pointed his wand at 
Krum just as Krum looked up. Krum turned and 
began to run. 

“ Stupefy]” Harry yelled. 

The spell hit Krum in the back; he stopped dead in 
his tracks, fell forward, and lay motionless, facedown 
in the grass. Harry dashed over to Cedric, who had 
stopped twitching and was lying there panting, his 
hands over his face. 

“Are you all right?” Harry said roughly, grabbing 
Cedric’s arm. 

“Yeah,” panted Cedric. “Yeah ... I don’t believe it ... he 
crept up behind me. ... I heard him, I turned around, 
and he had his wand on me. ...” 

Cedric got up. He was still shaking. He and Harry 
looked down at Krum. 

“I can’t believe this ... I thought he was all right,” 
Harry said, staring at Krum. 

“So did I,” said Cedric. 

“Did you hear Fleur scream earlier?” said Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Cedric. “You don’t think Krum got her 
too?” 

“I don’t know,” said Harry slowly. 

Page | 693 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Should we leave him here?” Cedric muttered. 



“No,” said Harry. “I reckon we should send up red 
sparks. Someone’ll come and collect him ... otherwise 
he’ll probably be eaten by a skrewt.” 

“He’d deserve it,” Cedric muttered, but all the same, 
he raised his wand and shot a shower of red sparks 
into the air, which hovered high above Krum, marking 
the spot where he lay. 

Harry and Cedric stood there in the darkness for a 
moment, looking around them. Then Cedric said, 

“Well ... I s’pose we’d better go on . ...” 

“What?” said Harry. “Oh ... yeah ... right ...” 

It was an odd moment. He and Cedric had been 
briefly united against Krum — now the fact that they 
were opponents came back to Harry. The two of them 
proceeded up the dark path without speaking, then 
Harry turned left, and Cedric right. Cedric’s footsteps 
soon died away. 

Harry moved on, continuing to use the Four-Point 
Spell, making sure he was moving in the right 
direction. It was between him and Cedric now. His 
desire to reach the cup first was now burning 
stronger than ever, but he could hardly believe what 
he’d just seen Krum do. The use of an Unforgivable 
Curse on a fellow human being meant a life term in 
Azkaban, that was what Moody had told them. Krum 
surely couldn’t have wanted the Triwizard Cup that 
badly. ... Harry sped up. 

Every so often he hit more dead ends, but the 
increasing darkness made him feel sure he was 
getting near the heart of the maze. Then, as he strode 
down a long, straight path, he saw movement once 

Page | 694 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




again, and his beam of wandlight hit an extraordinary 
creature, one which he had only seen in picture form, 
in his Monster Book of Monsters. 

It was a sphinx. It had the body of an over-large lion: 
great clawed paws and a long yellowish tail ending in 
a brown tuft. Its head, however, was that of a woman. 
She turned her long, almond-shaped eyes upon Harry 
as he approached. He raised his wand, hesitating. 

She was not crouching as if to spring, but pacing 
from side to side of the path, blocking his progress. 
Then she spoke, in a deep, hoarse voice. 

“You are very near your goal. The quickest way is past 
me.” 

“So ... so will you move, please?” said Harry, knowing 
what the answer was going to be. 

“No,” she said, continuing to pace. “Not unless you 
can answer my riddle. Answer on your first guess — I 
let you pass. Answer wrongly — I attack. Remain 
silent — I will let you walk away from me unscathed.” 

Harry’s stomach slipped several notches. It was 
Hermione who was good at this sort of thing, not him. 
He weighed his chances. If the riddle was too hard, he 
could keep silent, get away from the sphinx 
unharmed, and try and find an alternative route to 
the center. 

“Okay,” he said. “Can I hear the riddle?” 

The sphinx sat down upon her hind legs, in the very 
middle of the path, and recited: 

“First think of the person who lives in disguise, 



Who deals in secrets and tells naught but lies. 

Page | 695 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Next, tell me what’s always the last thing to mend, 

The middle of middle and end of the end? 

And finally give me the sound often heard 
During the search for a hard-to-find word. 

Now string them together, and answer me this, 

Which creature would you be unwilling to kiss?” 

Harry gaped at her. 

“Could I have it again . . . more slowly?” he asked 
tentatively. 

She blinked at him, smiled, and repeated the poem. 

“All the clues add up to a creature I wouldn’t want to 
kiss?” Harry asked. 

She merely smiled her mysterious smile. Harry took 
that for a “yes.” Harry cast his mind around. There 
were plenty of animals he wouldn’t want to kiss; his 
immediate thought was a Blast-Ended Skrewt, but 
something told him that wasn’t the answer. He’d have 
to try and work out the clues. ... 

“A person in disguise,” Harry muttered, staring at her, 
“who lies ... er ... that’d be a — an imposter. No, 
that’s not my guess! A — a spy? I’ll come back to that 
. . . could you give me the next clue again, please?” 

She repeated the next lines of the poem. 

“ The last thing to mend,’ ” Harry repeated. “Er ... no 
idea ... ‘middle of middle’ ... could I have the last bit 
again?” 

Page | 696 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She gave him the last four lines. 

“ The sound often heard during the search for a hard- 
to-find word,’ ” said Harry. “Er ... that’d be ... er ... 
hang on — ‘er’! Er’s a sound!” 

The sphinx smiled at him. 

“Spy ... er ... spy ... er ...” said Harry, pacing up and 
down. “A creature I wouldn’t want to kiss ... a spiderl” 

The sphinx smiled more broadly. She got up, 
stretched her front legs, and then moved aside for 
him to pass. 

“Thanks!” said Harry, and, amazed at his own 
brilliance, he dashed forward. 

He had to be close now, he had to be. ... His wand 
was telling him he was bang on course; as long as he 
didn’t meet anything too horrible, he might have a 
chance. ... 

Harry broke into a run. He had a choice of paths up 
ahead. “Point Mel” he whispered again to his wand, 
and it spun around and pointed him to the right- 
hand one. He dashed up this one and saw light 
ahead. 

The Triwizard Cup was gleaming on a plinth a 
hundred yards away. Suddenly a dark figure hurtled 
out onto the path in front of him. 

Cedric was going to get there first. Cedric was 
sprinting as fast as he could toward the cup, and 
Harry knew he would never catch up, Cedric was 
much taller, had much longer legs — 



Page | 697 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Then Harry saw something immense over a hedge to 
his left, moving quickly along a path that intersected 
with his own; it was moving so fast Cedric was about 
to run into it, and Cedric, his eyes on the cup, had 
not seen it — 

“Cedric!” Harry bellowed. “On your left!” 

Cedric looked around just in time to hurl himself past 
the thing and avoid colliding with it, but in his haste, 
he tripped. Harry saw Cedric’s wand fly out of his 
hand as a gigantic spider stepped into the path and 
began to bear down upon Cedric. 

“Stupefy'.” Harry yelled; the spell hit the spider’s 
gigantic, hairy black body, but for all the good it did, 
he might as well have thrown a stone at it; the spider 
jerked, scuttled around, and ran at Harry instead. 

“ Stupefy ! Impedimenta ! Stupefy !” 

But it was no use — the spider was either so large, or 
so magical, that the spells were doing no more than 
aggravating it. Harry had one horrifying glimpse of 
eight shining black eyes and razor-sharp pincers 
before it was upon him. 

He was lifted into the air in its front legs; struggling 
madly, he tried to kick it; his leg connected with the 
pincers and next moment he was in excruciating 
pain. He could hear Cedric yelling “Stupefy'.” too, but 
his spell had no more effect than Harry’s — Harry 
raised his wand as the spider opened its pincers once 
more and shouted “ Expelliarmus'.” 

It worked — the Disarming Spell made the spider 
drop him, but that meant that Harry fell twelve feet 
onto his already injured leg, which crumpled beneath 
him. Without pausing to think, he aimed high at the 

Page | 698 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




spider’s underbelly, as he had done with the skrewt, 
and shouted “Stupefyl” just as Cedric yelled the same 
thing. 

The two spells combined did what one alone had not: 
The spider keeled over sideways, flattening a nearby 
hedge, and strewing the path with a tangle of hairy 
legs. 

“Harry!” he heard Cedric shouting. “You all right? Did 
it fall on you?” 

“No,” Harry called back, panting. He looked down at 
his leg. It was bleeding freely. He could see some sort 
of thick, gluey secretion from the spider’s pincers on 
his torn robes. He tried to get up, but his leg was 
shaking badly and did not want to support his weight. 
He leaned against the hedge, gasping for breath, and 
looked around. 

Cedric was standing feet from the Triwizard Cup, 
which was gleaming behind him. 

“Take it, then,” Harry panted to Cedric. “Go on, take 
it. You’re there.” 

But Cedric didn’t move. He merely stood there, 
looking at Harry. Then he turned to stare at the cup. 
Harry saw the longing expression on his face in its 
golden light. Cedric looked around at Harry again, 
who was now holding onto the hedge to support 
himself. Cedric took a deep breath. 

“You take it. You should win. That’s twice you’ve 
saved my neck in here.” 

“That’s not how it’s supposed to work,” Harry said. He 
felt angry; his leg was very painful, he was aching all 
over from trying to throw off the spider, and after all 

Page | 699 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




his efforts, Cedric had beaten him to it, just as he’d 
beaten Harry to ask Cho to the ball. “The one who 
reaches the cup first gets the points. That’s you. I’m 
telling you, I’m not going to win any races on this leg.” 

Cedric took a few paces nearer to the Stunned spider, 
away from the cup, shaking his head. 

“No,” he said. 

“Stop being noble,” said Harry irritably. “Just take it, 
then we can get out of here.” 

Cedric watched Harry steadying himself, holding tight 
to the hedge. 

“You told me about the dragons,” Cedric said. “I 
would’ve gone down in the first task if you hadn’t told 
me what was coming.” 

“I had help on that too,” Harry snapped, trying to mop 
up his bloody leg with his robes. “You helped me with 
the egg — we’re square.” 

“I had help on the egg in the first place,” said Cedric. 

“We’re still square,” said Harry, testing his leg 
gingerly; it shook violently as he put weight on it; he 
had sprained his ankle when the spider had dropped 
him. 

“You should’ve got more points on the second task,” 
said Cedric mulishly. “You stayed behind to get all the 
hostages. I should’ve done that.” 

“I was the only one who was thick enough to take that 
song seriously!” said Harry bitterly. “Just take the 
cup!” 



Page | 700 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Cedric. 



He stepped over the spider’s tangled legs to join 
Harry, who stared at him. Cedric was serious. He was 
walking away from the sort of glory Hufflepuff House 
hadn’t had in centuries. 

“Go on,” Cedric said. He looked as though this was 
costing him every ounce of resolution he had, but his 
face was set, his arms were folded, he seemed 
decided. 

Harry looked from Cedric to the cup. For one shining 
moment, he saw himself emerging from the maze, 
holding it. He saw himself holding the Triwizard Cup 
aloft, heard the roar of the crowd, saw Cho’s face 
shining with admiration, more clearly than he had 
ever seen it before ... and then the picture faded, and 
he found himself staring at Cedric’s shadowy, 
stubborn face. 

“Both of us,” Harry said. 

“What?” 

“Well take it at the same time. It’s still a Hogwarts 
victory. We’ll tie for it.” 

Cedric stared at Harry. He unfolded his arms. 

“You — you sure?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah ... we’ve helped each other 
out, haven’t we? We both got here. Let’s just take it 
together.” 

For a moment, Cedric looked as though he couldn’t 
believe his ears; then his face split in a grin. 

Page | 701 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




“You’re on,” he said. “Come here.” 

He grabbed Harry’s arm below the shoulder and 
helped Harry limp toward the plinth where the cup 
stood. When they had reached it, they both held a 
hand out over one of the cup’s gleaming handles. 

“On three, right?” said Harry. “One — two — three — ” 

He and Cedric both grasped a handle. 

Instantly, Harry felt a jerk somewhere behind his 
navel. His feet had left the ground. He could not 
unclench the hand holding the Triwizard Cup; it was 
pulling him onward in a howl of wind and swirling 
color, Cedric at his side. 



Page | 702 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






FLESH, BLOOD, AND BONE 

Harry felt his feet slam into the ground; his injured 
leg gave way, and he fell forward; his hand let go of 
the Triwizard Cup at last. He raised his head. 

“Where are we?” he said. 

Cedric shook his head. He got up, pulled Harry to his 
feet, and they looked around. 

They had left the Hogwarts grounds completely; they 
had obviously traveled miles — perhaps hundreds of 
miles — for even the mountains surrounding the 
castle were gone. They were standing instead in a 
dark and overgrown graveyard; the black outline of a 
small church was visible beyond a large yew tree to 
their right. A hill rose above them to their left. Harry 
could just make out the outline of a fine old house on 
the hillside. 

Cedric looked down at the Triwizard Cup and then up 
at Harry. 



Page | 703 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“Did anyone tell you the cup was a Portkey?” he 
asked. 

“Nope,” said Harry. He was looking around the 
graveyard. It was completely silent and slightly eerie. 
“Is this supposed to be part of the task?” 

“I dunno,” said Cedric. He sounded slightly nervous. 
“Wands out, d’you reckon?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, glad that Cedric had made the 
suggestion rather than him. 

They pulled out their wands. Harry kept looking 
around him. He had, yet again, the strange feeling 
that they were being watched. 

“Someone’s coming,” he said suddenly. 

Squinting tensely through the darkness, they watched 
the figure drawing nearer, walking steadily toward 
them between the graves. Harry couldn’t make out a 
face, but from the way it was walking and holding its 
arms, he could tell that it was carrying something. 
Whoever it was, he was short, and wearing a hooded 
cloak pulled up over his head to obscure his face. And 
— several paces nearer, the gap between them closing 
all the time — Harry saw that the thing in the 
person’s arms looked like a baby ... or was it merely a 
bundle of robes? 

Harry lowered his wand slightly and glanced sideways 
at Cedric. Cedric shot him a quizzical look. They both 
turned back to watch the approaching figure. 

It stopped beside a towering marble headstone, only 
six feet from them. For a second, Harry and Cedric 
and the short figure simply looked at one another. 



Page | 704 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And then, without warning, Harry’s scar exploded 
with pain. It was agony such as he had never felt in 
all his life; his wand slipped from his fingers as he put 
his hands over his face; his knees buckled; he was on 
the ground and he could see nothing at all; his head 
was about to split open. 

From far away, above his head, he heard a high, cold 
voice say, “Kill the spare.” 

A swishing noise and a second voice, which screeched 
the words to the night: “Avada KedavraV’ 

A blast of green light blazed through Harry’s eyelids, 
and he heard something heavy fall to the ground 
beside him; the pain in his scar reached such a pitch 
that he retched, and then it diminished; terrified of 
what he was about to see, he opened his stinging 
eyes. 

Cedric was lying spread-eagled on the ground beside 
him. He was dead. 

For a second that contained an eternity, Harry stared 
into Cedric’s face, at his open gray eyes, blank and 
expressionless as the windows of a deserted house, at 
his half-open mouth, which looked slightly surprised. 
And then, before Harry’s mind had accepted what he 
was seeing, before he could feel anything but numb 
disbelief, he felt himself being pulled to his feet. 

The short man in the cloak had put down his bundle, 
lit his wand, and was dragging Harry toward the 
marble headstone. Harry saw the name upon it 
flickering in the wandlight before he was forced 
around and slammed against it. 

TOM RIDDLE 



Page | 705 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The cloaked man was now conjuring tight cords 
around Harry, tying him from neck to ankles to the 
headstone. Harry could hear shallow, fast breathing 
from the depths of the hood; he struggled, and the 
man hit him — hit him with a hand that had a finger 
missing. And Harry realized who was under the hood. 
It was Wormtail. 

“You!” he gasped. 

But Wormtail, who had finished conjuring the ropes, 
did not reply; he was busy checking the tightness of 
the cords, his fingers trembling uncontrollably, 
fumbling over the knots. Once sure that Harry was 
bound so tightly to the headstone that he couldn’t 
move an inch, Wormtail drew a length of some black 
material from the inside of his cloak and stuffed it 
roughly into Harry’s mouth; then, without a word, he 
turned from Harry and hurried away. Harry couldn’t 
make a sound, nor could he see where Wormtail had 
gone; he couldn’t turn his head to see beyond the 
headstone; he could see only what was right in front 
of him. 

Cedric’s body was lying some twenty feet away. Some 
way beyond him, glinting in the starlight, lay the 
Triwizard Cup. Harry’s wand was on the ground at 
Cedric’s feet. The bundle of robes that Harry had 
thought was a baby was close by, at the foot of the 
grave. It seemed to be stirring fretfully. Harry watched 
it, and his scar seared with pain again . . . and he 
suddenly knew that he didn’t want to see what was in 
those robes ... he didn’t want that bundle opened. ... 

He could hear noises at his feet. He looked down and 
saw a gigantic snake slithering through the grass, 
circling the headstone where he was tied. Wormtail’s 
fast, wheezy breathing was growing louder again. It 
sounded as though he was forcing something heavy 
Page | 706 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




across the ground. Then he came back within Harry’s 
range of vision, and Harry saw him pushing a stone 
cauldron to the foot of the grave. It was full of what 
seemed to be water — Harry could hear it slopping 
around — and it was larger than any cauldron Harry 
had ever used; a great stone belly large enough for a 
full-grown man to sit in. 

The thing inside the bundle of robes on the ground 
was stirring more persistently, as though it was trying 
to free itself. Now Wormtail was busying himself at 
the bottom of the cauldron with a wand. Suddenly 
there were crackling flames beneath it. The large 
snake slithered away into the darkness. 

The liquid in the cauldron seemed to heat very fast. 
The surface began not only to bubble, but to send out 
fiery sparks, as though it were on fire. Steam was 
thickening, blurring the outline of Wormtail tending 
the fire. The movements beneath the robes became 
more agitated. And Harry heard the high, cold voice 
again. 

“Hurry\” 

The whole surface of the water was alight with sparks 
now. It might have been encrusted with diamonds. 

“It is ready, Master.” 

“Now ...” said the cold voice. 

Wormtail pulled open the robes on the ground, 
revealing what was inside them, and Harry let out a 
yell that was strangled in the wad of material blocking 
his mouth. 

It was as though Wormtail had flipped over a stone 
and revealed something ugly, slimy, and blind — but 

Page | 707 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




worse, a hundred times worse. The thing Wormtail 
had been carrying had the shape of a crouched 
human child, except that Harry had never seen 
anything less like a child. It was hairless and scaly - 
looking, a dark, raw, reddish black. Its arms and legs 
were thin and feeble, and its face — no child alive 
ever had a face like that — flat and snakelike, with 
gleaming red eyes. 

The thing seemed almost helpless; it raised its thin 
arms, put them around Wormtail’s neck, and 
Wormtail lifted it. As he did so, his hood fell back, 
and Harry saw the look of revulsion on Wormtail’s 
weak, pale face in the firelight as he carried the 
creature to the rim of the cauldron. For one moment, 
Harry saw the evil, flat face illuminated in the sparks 
dancing on the surface of the potion. And then 
Wormtail lowered the creature into the cauldron; 
there was a hiss, and it vanished below the surface; 
Harry heard its frail body hit the bottom with a soft 
thud. 

Let it drown, Harry thought, his scar burning almost 
past endurance, please ... let it drown. ... 

Wormtail was speaking. His voice shook; he seemed 
frightened beyond his wits. He raised his wand, 
closed his eyes, and spoke to the night. 

“Bone of the father, unknowingly given, you will renew 
your son!” 

The surface of the grave at Harry’s feet cracked. 
Horrified, Harry watched as a fine trickle of dust rose 
into the air at Wormtail’s command and fell softly into 
the cauldron. The diamond surface of the water broke 
and hissed; it sent sparks in all directions and turned 
a vivid, poisonous-looking blue. 



Page | 708 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And now Wormtail was whimpering. He pulled a long, 
thin, shining silver dagger from inside his cloak. His 
voice broke into petrified sobs. 

“ Flesh — of the servant — w-willingly given — you will 
— revive — your master.” 

He stretched his right hand out in front of him — the 
hand with the missing finger. He gripped the dagger 
very tightly in his left hand and swung it upward. 

Harry realized what Wormtail was about to do a 
second before it happened — he closed his eyes as 
tightly as he could, but he could not block the scream 
that pierced the night, that went through Harry as 
though he had been stabbed with the dagger too. He 
heard something fall to the ground, heard Wormtail’s 
anguished panting, then a sickening splash, as 
something was dropped into the cauldron. Harry 
couldn’t stand to look ... but the potion had turned a 
burning red; the light of it shone through Harry’s 
closed eyelids... 

Wormtail was gasping and moaning with agony. Not 
until Harry felt Wormtail’s anguished breath on his 
face did he realize that Wormtail was right in front of 
him. 

“B-blood of the enemy ... forcibly taken ... you will ... 
resurrect your foe.” 

Harry could do nothing to prevent it, he was tied too 
tightly. ... Squinting down, struggling hopelessly at 
the ropes binding him, he saw the shining silver 
dagger shaking in Wormtail’s remaining hand. He felt 
its point penetrate the crook of his right arm and 
blood seeping down the sleeve of his torn robes. 
Wormtail, still panting with pain, fumbled in his 



Page | 709 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




pocket for a glass vial and held it to Harry’s cut, so 
that a dribble of blood fell into it. 

He staggered back to the cauldron with Harry’s blood. 
He poured it inside. The liquid within turned, 
instantly, a blinding white. Wormtail, his job done, 
dropped to his knees beside the cauldron, then 
slumped sideways and lay on the ground, cradling the 
bleeding stump of his arm, gasping and sobbing. 

The cauldron was simmering, sending its diamond 
sparks in all directions, so blindingly bright that it 
turned all else to velvety blackness. Nothing 
happened. ... 

Let it have drowned, Harry thought, let it have gone 
wrong. ... 

And then, suddenly, the sparks emanating from the 
cauldron were extinguished. A surge of white steam 
billowed thickly from the cauldron instead, 
obliterating everything in front of Harry, so that he 
couldn’t see Wormtail or Cedric or anything but vapor 
hanging in the air. . . It’s gone wrong, he thought . . . it’s 
drowned . . . please . . . please let it be dead. . . 

But then, through the mist in front of him, he saw, 
with an icy surge of terror, the dark outline of a man, 
tall and skeletally thin, rising slowly from inside the 
cauldron. 

“Robe me,” said the high, cold voice from behind the 
steam, and Wormtail, sobbing and moaning, still 
cradling his mutilated arm, scrambled to pick up the 
black robes from the ground, got to his feet, reached 
up, and pulled them one-handed over his master’s 
head. 



Page | 710 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The thin man stepped out of the cauldron, staring at 
Harry . . . and Harry stared back into the face that had 
haunted his nightmares for three years. Whiter than a 
skull, with wide, livid scarlet eyes and a nose that 
was flat as a snake’s with slits for nostrils ... 

Lord Voldemort had risen again. 



Page | 711 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE DEATH EATERS 

Voldemort looked away from Harry and began 
examining his own body. His hands were like large, 
pale spiders; his long white fingers caressed his own 
chest, his arms, his face; the red eyes, whose pupils 
were slits, like a cat’s, gleamed still more brightly 
through the darkness. He held up his hands and 
flexed the fingers, his expression rapt and exultant. 

He took not the slightest notice of Wormtail, who lay 
twitching and bleeding on the ground, nor of the great 
snake, which had slithered back into sight and was 
circling Harry again, hissing. Voldemort slipped one of 
those unnaturally long-fingered hands into a deep 
pocket and drew out a wand. He caressed it gently 
too; and then he raised it, and pointed it at Wormtail, 
who was lifted off the ground and thrown against the 
headstone where Harry was tied; he fell to the foot of 
it and lay there, crumpled up and crying. Voldemort 
turned his scarlet eyes upon Harry, laughing a high, 
cold, mirthless laugh. 

Wormtail’s robes were shining with blood now; he had 
wrapped the stump of his arm in them. 

Page | 712 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“My Lord ...” he choked, “my Lord ... you promised ... 
you did promise ...” 

“Hold out your arm,” said Voldemort lazily. 

“Oh Master ... thank you, Master ...” 

He extended the bleeding stump, but Voldemort 
laughed again. 

“The other arm, Wormtail.” 

“Master, please ... please ...” 

Voldemort bent down and pulled out Wormtail’s left 
arm; he forced the sleeve of Wormtail’s robes up past 
his elbow, and Harry saw something upon the skin 
there, something like a vivid red tattoo — a skull with 
a snake protruding from its mouth — the image that 
had appeared in the sky at the Quidditch World Cup: 
the Dark Mark. Voldemort examined it carefully, 
ignoring Wormtail’s uncontrollable weeping. 

“It is back,” he said softly, “they will all have noticed it 
... and now, we shall see ... now we shall know ...” 

He pressed his long white forefinger to the brand on 
Wormtail’s arm. 

The scar on Harry’s forehead seared with a sharp 
pain again, and Wormtail let out a fresh howl; 
Voldemort removed his fingers from Wormtail’s mark, 
and Harry saw that it had turned jet black. 

A look of cruel satisfaction on his face, Voldemort 
straightened up, threw back his head, and stared 
around at the dark graveyard. 



Page | 713 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“How many will be brave enough to return when they 
feel it?” he whispered, his gleaming red eyes fixed 
upon the stars. “And how many will be foolish enough 
to stay away?” 

He began to pace up and down before Harry and 
Wormtail, eyes sweeping the graveyard all the while. 
After a minute or so, he looked down at Harry again, 
a cruel smile twisting his snakelike face. 

“You stand, Harry Potter, upon the remains of my late 
father,” he hissed softly. “A Muggle and a fool ... very 
like your dear mother. But they both had their uses, 
did they not? Your mother died to defend you as a 
child . . . and I killed my father, and see how useful he 
has proved himself, in death. ...” 

Voldemort laughed again. Up and down he paced, 
looking all around him as he walked, and the snake 
continued to circle in the grass. 

“You see that house upon the hillside, Potter? My 
father lived there. My mother, a witch who lived here 
in this village, fell in love with him. But he abandoned 
her when she told him what she was. ... He didn’t like 
