
“Welcome!” he said. “Welcome to a new year at 
Hogwarts! Before we begin our banquet, I would like 
to say a few words. And here they are: Nitwit! 

Blubber! Oddment! Tweak! 

“Thank you!” 

He sat back down. Everybody clapped and cheered. 
Harry didn’t know whether to laugh or not. 

“Is he — a bit mad?” he asked Percy uncertainly. 

“Mad?” said Percy airily. “He’s a genius! Best wizard 
in the world! But he is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes, 
Harry?” 

Harry’s mouth fell open. The dishes in front of him 
were now piled with food. He had never seen so many 
things he liked to eat on one table: roast beef, roast 
chicken, pork chops and lamb chops, sausages, 
bacon and steak, boiled potatoes, roast potatoes, 
fries, Yorkshire pudding, peas, carrots, gravy, 
ketchup, and, for some strange reason, peppermint 
humbugs. 

The Dursleys had never exactly starved Harry, but 
he’d never been allowed to eat as much as he liked. 
Dudley had always taken anything that Harry really 
wanted, even if it made him sick. Harry piled his plate 
with a bit of everything except the peppermints and 
began to eat. It was all delicious. 

“That does look good,” said the ghost in the ruff sadly, 
watching Harry cut up his steak. 

Page | 138 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Can’t you — ?” 



“I haven’t eaten for nearly five hundred years,” said 
the ghost. “I don’t need to, of course, but one does 
miss it. I don’t think I’ve introduced myself? Sir 
Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your service. 
Resident ghost of Gryffindor Tower.” 

“I know who you are!” said Ron suddenly. “My 
brothers told me about you — you’re Nearly Headless 
Nick!” 

“I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy 
— ” the ghost began stiffly, but sandy-haired Seamus 
Finnigan interrupted. 

“Nearly Headless? How can you be nearly headless?” 

Sir Nicholas looked extremely miffed, as if their little 
chat wasn’t going at all the way he wanted. 

“Like this,” he said irritably. He seized his left ear and 
pulled. His whole head swung off his neck and fell 
onto his shoulder as if it was on a hinge. Someone 
had obviously tried to behead him, but not done it 
properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on 
their faces, Nearly Headless Nick flipped his head 
back onto his neck, coughed, and said, “So — new 
Gryffindors! I hope you’re going to help us win the 
House Championship this year? Gryffindors have 
never gone so long without winning. Slytherins have 
got the cup six years in a row! The Bloody Baron’s 
becoming almost unbearable — he’s the Slytherin 
ghost.” 

Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a 
horrible ghost sitting there, with blank staring eyes, a 
gaunt face, and robes stained with silver blood. He 
was right next to Malfoy who, Harry was pleased to 

Page | 139 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




see, didn’t look too pleased with the seating 
arrangements. 

“How did he get covered in blood?” asked Seamus 
with great interest. 

“I’ve never asked,” said Nearly Headless Nick 
delicately. 

When everyone had eaten as much as they could, the 
remains of the food faded from the plates, leaving 
them sparkling clean as before. A moment later the 
desserts appeared. Blocks of ice cream in every flavor 
you could think of, apple pies, treacle tarts, chocolate 
eclairs and jam doughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell- 
0, rice pudding ... 

As Harry helped himself to a treacle tart, the talk 
turned to their families. 

“I’m half-and-half,” said Seamus. “Me dad’s a Muggle. 
Mom didn’t tell him she was a witch ’til after they 
were married. Bit of a nasty shock for him.” 

The others laughed. 

“What about you, Neville?” said Ron. 

“Well, my gran brought me up and she’s a witch,” 
said Neville, “but the family thought I was all- Muggle 
for ages. My Great Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me 
off my guard and force some magic out of me — he 
pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly 
drowned — but nothing happened until I was eight. 
Great Uncle Algie came round for dinner, and he was 
hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles 
when my Great Auntie Enid offered him a meringue 
and he accidentally let go. But I bounced — all the 
way down the garden and into the road. They were all 
Page | 140 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 




really pleased, Gran was crying, she was so happy. 
And you should have seen their faces when I got in 
here — they thought I might not be magic enough to 
come, you see. Great Uncle Algie was so pleased he 
bought me my toad.” 

On Harry’s other side, Percy Weasley and Hermione 
were talking about lessons (“I do hope they start right 
away, there’s so much to learn, I’m particularly 
interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning 
something into something else, of course, it’s 
supposed to be very difficult — “You’ll be starting 
small, just matches into needles and that sort of 
thing — ”). 



Harry, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy, 
looked up at the High Table again. Hagrid was 
drinking deeply from his goblet. Professor McGonagall 
was talking to Professor Dumbledore. Professor 
Quirrell, in his absurd turban, was talking to a 
teacher with greasy black hair, a hooked nose, and 
sallow skin. 

It happened very suddenly. The hook-nosed teacher 
looked past Quirrell’s turban straight into Harry’s 
eyes — and a sharp, hot pain shot across the scar on 
Harry’s forehead. 

“Ouch!” Harry clapped a hand to his head. 

“What is it?” asked Percy. 

“N-nothing.” 

The pain had gone as quickly as it had come. Harder 
to shake off was the feeling Harry had gotten from the 
teacher’s look — a feeling that he didn’t like Harry at 
all. 



Page | 141 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Who’s that teacher talking to Professor Quirrell?” he 
asked Percy. 

“Oh, you know Quirrell already, do you? No wonder 
he’s looking so nervous, that’s Professor Snape. He 
teaches Potions, but he doesn’t want to — everyone 
knows he’s after Quirrell’s job. Knows an awful lot 
about the Dark Arts, Snape.” 

Harry watched Snape for a while, but Snape didn’t 
look at him again. 

At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor 
Dumbledore got to his feet again. The hall fell silent. 

“Ahem — just a few more words now that we are all 
fed and watered. I have a few start-of-term notices to 
give you. 

“First years should note that the forest on the 
grounds is forbidden to all pupils. And a few of our 
older students would do well to remember that as 
well.” 

Dumbledore ’s twinkling eyes flashed in the direction 
of the Weasley twins. 

“I have also been asked by Mr. Filch, the caretaker, to 
remind you all that no magic should be used between 
classes in the corridors. 

“Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of 
the term. Anyone interested in playing for their House 
teams should contact Madam Hooch. 

“And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third- 
floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds 
to everyone who does not wish to die a very painful 
death.” 

Page | 142 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 




Harry laughed, but he was one of the few who did. 



“He’s not serious?” he muttered to Percy. 

“Must be,” said Percy, frowning at Dumbledore. “It’s 
odd, because he usually gives us a reason why we’re 
not allowed to go somewhere — the forest’s full of 
dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think he 
might have told us prefects, at least.” 

“And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the school 
song!” cried Dumbledore. Harry noticed that the other 
teachers’ smiles had become rather fixed. 

Dumbledore gave his wand a little flick, as if he was 
trying to get a fly off the end, and a long golden 
ribbon flew out of it, which rose high above the tables 
and twisted itself, snakelike, into words. 

“Everyone pick their favorite tune,” said Dumbledore, 
“and off we go!” 

And the school bellowed: 

“Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts, 

Teach us something please, 

Whether we be old and bald 
Or young with scabby knees, 

Our heads could do with filling 
With some interesting stuff, 

For now they’re bare and full of air, 

Dead flies and bits of fluff, 

Page | 143 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 




So teach us things worth knowing, 

Bring back what we’ve forgot, 

Just do your best, we’ll do the rest, 

And learn until our brains all rot.” 

Everybody finished the song at different times. At last, 
only the Weasley twins were left singing along to a 
very slow funeral march. Dumbledore conducted their 
last few lines with his wand and when they had 
finished, he was one of those who clapped loudest. 

“Ah, music,” he said, wiping his eyes. “A magic 
beyond all we do here! And now, bedtime. Off you 
trot!” 

The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the 
chattering crowds, out of the Great Hall, and up the 
marble staircase. Harry’s legs were like lead again, 
but only because he was so tired and full of food. He 
was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in 
the portraits along the corridors whispered and 
pointed as they passed, or that twice Percy led them 
through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and 
hanging tapestries. They climbed more staircases, 
yawning and dragging their feet, and Harry was just 
wondering how much farther they had to go when 
they came to a sudden halt. 

A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair 
ahead of them, and as Percy took a step toward them 
they started throwing themselves at him. 

“Peeves,” Percy whispered to the first years. “A 
poltergeist.” He raised his voice, “Peeves — show 
yourself.” 



Page | 144 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a 
balloon, answered. 

“Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron?” 

There was a pop, and a little man with wicked, dark 
eyes and a wide mouth appeared, floating cross- 
legged in the air, clutching the walking sticks. 

“Oooooooh!” he said, with an evil cackle. “Ickle 
Firsties! What fun!” 

He swooped suddenly at them. They all ducked. 

“Go away, Peeves, or the Baron’ll hear about this, I 
mean it!” barked Percy. 

Peeves stuck out his tongue and vanished, dropping 
the walking sticks on Neville’s head. They heard him 
zooming away, rattling coats of armor as he passed. 

“You want to watch out for Peeves,” said Percy, as 
they set off again. “The Bloody Baron’s the only one 
who can control him, he won’t even listen to us 
prefects. Here we are.” 

At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a 
very fat woman in a pink silk dress. 

“Password?” she said. 

“Caput Draconis,” said Percy, and the portrait swung 
forward to reveal a round hole in the wall. They all 
scrambled through it — Neville needed a leg up — 
and found themselves in the Gryffindor common 
room, a cozy, round room full of squashy armchairs. 

Percy directed the girls through one door to their 
dormitory and the boys through another. At the top of 

Page | 145 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 




a spiral staircase — they were obviously in one of the 
towers — they found their beds at last: five four- 
posters hung with deep red, velvet curtains. Their 
trunks had already been brought up. Too tired to talk 
much, they pulled on their pajamas and fell into bed. 

“Great food, isn’t it?” Ron muttered to Harry through 
the hangings. “Get off Scabbers! He’s chewing my 
sheets.” 

Harry was going to ask Ron if he’d had any of the 
treacle tart, but he fell asleep almost at once. 

Perhaps Harry had eaten a bit too much, because he 
had a very strange dream. He was wearing Professor 
Quirrell’s turban, which kept talking to him, telling 
him he must transfer to Slytherin at once, because it 
was his destiny. Harry told the turban he didn’t want 
to be in Slytherin; it got heavier and heavier; he tried 
to pull it off but it tightened painfully — and there 
was Malfoy, laughing at him as he struggled with it — 
then Malfoy turned into the hook-nosed teacher, 
Snape, whose laugh became high and cold — there 
was a burst of green light and Harry woke, sweating 
and shaking. 

He rolled over and fell asleep again, and when he 
woke next day, he didn’t remember the dream at all. 



Page | 146 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 






THE POTIONS MASTER 

“There, look.” 

“Where?” 

“Next to the tall kid with the red hair.” 

“Wearing the glasses?” 

“Did you see his face?” 

“Did you see his scar?” 

Whispers followed Harry from the moment he left his 
dormitory the next day. People lining up outside 
classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look at him, or 
doubled back to pass him in the corridors again, 
staring. Harry wished they wouldn’t, because he was 
trying to concentrate on finding his way to classes. 

There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at 
Hogwarts: wide, sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; 
some that led somewhere different on a Friday; some 

Page | 147 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 



with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to 
remember to jump. Then there were doors that 
wouldn’t open unless you asked politely, or tickled 
them in exactly the right place, and doors that weren’t 
really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending. It 
was also very hard to remember where anything was, 
because it all seemed to move around a lot. The 
people in the portraits kept going to visit each other, 
and Harry was sure the coats of armor could walk. 

The ghosts didn’t help, either. It was always a nasty 
shock when one of them glided suddenly through a 
door you were trying to open. Nearly Headless Nick 
was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the 
right direction, but Peeves the Poltergeist was worth 
two locked doors and a trick staircase if you met him 
when you were late for class. He would drop 
wastepaper baskets on your head, pull rugs from 
under your feet, pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak 
up behind you, invisible, grab your nose, and screech, 
“GOT YOUR CONK!” 

Even worse than Peeves, if that was possible, was the 
caretaker, Argus Filch. Harry and Ron managed to get 
on the wrong side of him on their very first morning. 
Filch found them trying to force their way through a 
door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to 
the out-of-bounds corridor on the third floor. He 
wouldn’t believe they were lost, was sure they were 
trying to break into it on purpose, and was 
threatening to lock them in the dungeons when they 
were rescued by Professor Quirrell, who was passing. 

Filch owned a cat called Mrs. Norris, a scrawny, dust- 
colored creature with bulging, lamplike eyes just like 
Filch’s. She patrolled the corridors alone. Break a rule 
in front of her, put just one toe out of line, and she’d 
whisk off for Filch, who’d appear, wheezing, two 
seconds later. Filch knew the secret passageways of 
Page | 148 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 




the school better than anyone (except perhaps the 
Weasley twins) and could pop up as suddenly as any 
of the ghosts. The students all hated him, and it was 
the dearest ambition of many to give Mrs. Norris a 
good kick. 

And then, once you had managed to find them, there 
were the classes themselves. There was a lot more to 
magic, as Harry quickly found out, than waving your 
wand and saying a few funny words. 

They had to study the night skies through their 
telescopes every Wednesday at midnight and learn 
the names of different stars and the movements of the 
planets. Three times a week they went out to the 
greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology, 
with a dumpy little witch called Professor Sprout, 
where they learned how to take care of all the strange 
plants and fungi, and found out what they were used 
for. 

Easily the most boring class was History of Magic, 
which was the only one taught by a ghost. Professor 
Binns had been very old indeed when he had fallen 
asleep in front of the staff room fire and got up next 
morning to teach, leaving his body behind him. Binns 
droned on and on while they scribbled down names 
and dates, and got Emeric the Evil and Uric the 
Oddball mixed up. 

Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was a tiny 
little wizard who had to stand on a pile of books to 
see over his desk. At the start of their first class he 
took the roll call, and when he reached Harry’s name 
he gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight. 

Professor McGonagall was again different. Harry had 
been quite right to think she wasn’t a teacher to 



Page | 149 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




cross. Strict and clever, she gave them a talking- to 
the moment they sat down in her first class. 

“Transfiguration is some of the most complex and 
dangerous magic you will learn at Hogwarts,” she 
said. “Anyone messing around in my class will leave 
and not come back. You have been warned.” 

Then she changed her desk into a pig and back again. 
They were all very impressed and couldn’t wait to get 
started, but soon realized they weren’t going to be 
changing the furniture into animals for a long time. 
After taking a lot of complicated notes, they were each 
given a match and started trying to turn it into a 
needle. By the end of the lesson, only Hermione 
Granger had made any difference to her match; 
Professor McGonagall showed the class how it had 
gone all silver and pointy and gave Hermione a rare 
smile. 

The class everyone had really been looking forward to 
was Defense Against the Dark Arts, but Quirrell’s 
lessons turned out to be a bit of a joke. His classroom 
smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone said was to 
ward off a vampire he’d met in Romania and was 
afraid would be coming back to get him one of these 
days. His turban, he told them, had been given to him 
by an African prince as a thank-you for getting rid of 
a troublesome zombie, but they weren’t sure they 
believed this story. For one thing, when Seamus 
Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirrell had 
fought off the zombie, Quirrell went pink and started 
talking about the weather; for another, they had 
noticed that a funny smell hung around the turban, 
and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed full 
of garlic as well, so that Quirrell was protected 
wherever he went. 



Page | 150 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry was very relieved to find out that he wasn’t 
miles behind everyone else. Lots of people had come 
from Muggle families and, like him, hadn’t had any 
idea that they were witches and wizards. There was so 
much to learn that even people like Ron didn’t have 
much of a head start. 

Friday was an important day for Harry and Ron. They 
finally managed to find their way down to the Great 
Hall for breakfast without getting lost once. 

“What have we got today?” Harry asked Ron as he 
poured sugar on his porridge. 

“Double Potions with the Slytherins,” said Ron. 
“Snape’s Head of Slytherin House. They say he always 
favors them — we’ll be able to see if it’s true.” 

“Wish McGonagall favored us,” said Harry. Professor 
McGonagall was head of Gryffindor House, but it 
hadn’t stopped her from giving them a huge pile of 
homework the day before. 

Just then, the mail arrived. Harry had gotten used to 
this by now, but it had given him a bit of a shock on 
the first morning, when about a hundred owls had 
suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during 
breakfast, circling the tables until they saw their 
owners, and dropping letters and packages onto their 
laps. 

Hedwig hadn’t brought Harry anything so far. She 
sometimes flew in to nibble his ear and have a bit of 
toast before going off to sleep in the owlery with the 
other school owls. This morning, however, she 
fluttered down between the marmalade and the sugar 
bowl and dropped a note onto Harry’s plate. Harry 
tore it open at once. It said, in a very untidy scrawl: 



Page | 151 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Dear Harry, 



I know you get Friday afternoons off so would you like 
to come and have a cup of tea with me around three? 

I want to hear all about your first week. Send us an 
answer back with Hedwig. 

Hagrid 

Harry borrowed Ron’s quill, scribbled Yes, please, see 
you later on the back of the note, and sent Hedwig off 
again. 

It was lucky that Harry had tea with Hagrid to look 
forward to, because the Potions lesson turned out to 
be the worst thing that had happened to him so far. 

At the start-of-term banquet, Harry had gotten the 
idea that Professor Snape disliked him. By the end of 
the first Potions lesson, he knew he’d been wrong. 
Snape didn’t dislike Harry — he hated him. 

Potions lessons took place down in one of the 
dungeons. It was colder here than up in the main 
castle, and would have been quite creepy enough 
without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all 
around the walls. 

Snape, like Flitwick, started the class by taking the 
roll call, and like Flitwick, he paused at Harry’s name. 

“Ah, yes,” he said softly, “Harry Potter. Our new — 
celebrity.” 

Draco Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle 
sniggered behind their hands. Snape finished calling 
the names and looked up at the class. His eyes were 
black like Hagrid ’s, but they had none of Hagrid ’s 

Page | 152 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




warmth. They were cold and empty and made you 
think of dark tunnels. 

“You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art 
of potion-making,” he began. He spoke in barely more 
than a whisper, but they caught every word — like 
Professor McGonagall, Snape had the gift of keeping a 
class silent without effort. “As there is little foolish 
wand- waving here, many of you will hardly believe 
this is magic. I don’t expect you will really understand 
the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its 
shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that 
creep through human veins, bewitching the mind, 
ensnaring the senses. ... I can teach you how to bottle 
fame, brew glory, even stopper death — if you aren’t 
as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to 
teach.” 

More silence followed this little speech. Harry and 
Ron exchanged looks with raised eyebrows. Hermione 
Granger was on the edge of her seat and looked 
desperate to start proving that she wasn’t a 
dunderhead. 

“Potter!” said Snape suddenly. “What would I get if I 
added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of 
wormwood?” 

Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Harry 
glanced at Ron, who looked as stumped as he was; 
Hermione ’s hand had shot into the air. 

“I don’t know, sir,” said Harry. 

Snape ’s lips curled into a sneer. 

“Tut, tut — fame clearly isn’t everything.” 

He ignored Hermione ’s hand. 

Page | 153 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Let’s try again. Potter, where would you look if I told 
you to find me a bezoar?” 

Hermione stretched her hand as high into the air as it 
would go without her leaving her seat, but Harry 
didn’t have the faintest idea what a bezoar was. He 
tried not to look at Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who 
were shaking with laughter. 

“I don’t know, sir.” 

“Thought you wouldn’t open a book before coming, 
eh, Potter?” 

Harry forced himself to keep looking straight into 
those cold eyes. He had looked through his books at 
the Dursleys’, but did Snape expect him to remember 
everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs and 
Fungi ? 

Snape was still ignoring Hermione’s quivering hand. 

“What is the difference, Potter, between monkshood 
and wolfsbane?” 

At this, Hermione stood up, her hand stretching 
toward the dungeon ceiling. 

“I don’t know,” said Harry quietly. “I think Hermione 
does, though, why don’t you try her?” 

A few people laughed; Harry caught Seamus’s eye, 
and Seamus winked. Snape, however, was not 
pleased. 

“Sit down,” he snapped at Hermione. “For your 
information, Potter, asphodel and wormwood make a 
sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the 
Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken 

Page | 154 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from 
most poisons. As for monkshood and wolfsbane, they 
are the same plant, which also goes by the name of 
aconite. Well? Why aren’t you all copying that down?” 

There was a sudden rummaging for quills and 
parchment. Over the noise, Snape said, “And a point 
will be taken from Gryffindor House for your cheek, 
Potter.” 

Things didn’t improve for the Gryffindors as the 
Potions lesson continued. Snape put them all into 
pairs and set them to mixing up a simple potion to 
cure boils. He swept around in his long black cloak, 
watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake 
fangs, criticizing almost everyone except Malfoy, 
whom he seemed to like. He was just telling everyone 
to look at the perfect way Malfoy had stewed his 
horned slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a 
loud hissing filled the dungeon. Neville had somehow 
managed to melt Seamus’s cauldron into a twisted 
blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone 
floor, burning holes in people’s shoes. Within 
seconds, the whole class was standing on their stools 
while Neville, who had been drenched in the potion 
when the cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as 
angry red boils sprang up all over his arms and legs. 

“Idiot boy!” snarled Snape, clearing the spilled potion 
away with one wave of his wand. “I suppose you 
added the porcupine quills before taking the cauldron 
off the fire?” 

Neville whimpered as boils started to pop up all over 
his nose. 

“Take him up to the hospital wing,” Snape spat at 
Seamus. Then he rounded on Harry and Ron, who 
had been working next to Neville. 

Page | 155 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“You — Potter — why didn’t you tell him not to add 
the quills? Thought he’d make you look good if he got 
it wrong, did you? That’s another point you’ve lost for 
Gryffindor.” 

This was so unfair that Harry opened his mouth to 
argue, but Ron kicked him behind their cauldron. 

“Don’t push it,” he muttered, “I’ve heard Snape can 
turn very nasty.” 

As they climbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour 
later, Harry’s mind was racing and his spirits were 
low. He’d lost two points for Gryffindor in his very 
first week — why did Snape hate him so much? 

“Cheer up,” said Ron, “Snape’s always taking points 
off Fred and George. Can I come and meet Hagrid 
with you?” 

At five to three they left the castle and made their way 
across the grounds. Hagrid lived in a small wooden 
house on the edge of the forbidden forest. A crossbow 
and a pair of galoshes were outside the front door. 

When Harry knocked they heard a frantic scrabbling 
from inside and several booming barks. Then Hagrid ’s 
voice rang out, saying, “Back, Fang — back.” 

Hagrid ’s big, hairy face appeared in the crack as he 
pulled the door open. 

“Hang on,” he said. “Back, Fang.” 

He let them in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar 
of an enormous black boarhound. 

There was only one room inside. Hams and pheasants 
were hanging from the ceiling, a copper kettle was 

Page | 156 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




boiling on the open fire, and in the corner stood a 
massive bed with a patchwork quilt over it. 

“Make yerselves at home,” said Hagrid, letting go of 
Fang, who bounded straight at Ron and started 
licking his ears. Like Hagrid, Fang was clearly not as 
fierce as he looked. 

“This is Ron,” Harry told Hagrid, who was pouring 
boiling water into a large teapot and putting rock 
cakes onto a plate. 

“Another Weasley, eh?” said Hagrid, glancing at Ron’s 
freckles. “I spent half me life chasin’ yer twin brothers 
away from the forest.” 

The rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins 
that almost broke their teeth, but Harry and Ron 
pretended to be enjoying them as they told Hagrid all 
about their first lessons. Fang rested his head on 
Harry’s knee and drooled all over his robes. 

Harry and Ron were delighted to hear Hagrid call 
Filch “that old git.” 

“An’ as fer that cat, Mrs. Norris, I’d like ter introduce 
her to Fang sometime. D’yeh know, every time I go up 
ter the school, she follows me everywhere? Can’t get 
rid of her — Filch puts her up to it.” 

Harry told Hagrid about Snape’s lesson. Hagrid, like 
Ron, told Harry not to worry about it, that Snape 
liked hardly any of the students. 

“But he seemed to really hate me.” 

“Rubbish!” said Hagrid. “Why should he?” 



Page | 157 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Yet Harry couldn’t help thinking that Hagrid didn’t 
quite meet his eyes when he said that. 

“How’s yer brother Charlie?” Hagrid asked Ron. “I 
liked him a lot — great with animals.” 

Harry wondered if Hagrid had changed the subject on 
purpose. While Ron told Hagrid all about Charlie’s 
work with dragons, Harry picked up a piece of paper 
that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. It was 
a cutting from the Daily Prophet : 

GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST 

Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts 
on 3 1 July, widely believed to be the work of Dark 
wizards or witches unknown. 

Gringotts goblins today insisted that nothing had 
been taken. The vault that was searched had in fact 
been emptied the same day. 

“But we’re not telling you what was in there, so keep 
your noses out if you know what’s good for you,” said 
a Gringotts spokesgoblin this afternoon. 

Harry remembered Ron telling him on the train that 
someone had tried to rob Gringotts, but Ron hadn’t 
mentioned the date. 

“Hagrid!” said Harry, “that Gringotts break-in 
happened on my birthday! It might’ve been happening 
while we were there!” 

There was no doubt about it, Hagrid definitely didn’t 
meet Harry’s eyes this time. He grunted and offered 
him another rock cake. Harry read the story again. 

The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied 
earlier that same day. Hagrid had emptied vault seven 
Page | 158 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




hundred and thirteen, if you could call it emptying, 
taking out that grubby little package. Had that been 
what the thieves were looking for? 

As Harry and Ron walked back to the castle for 
dinner, their pockets weighed down with rock cakes 
they’d been too polite to refuse, Harry thought that 
none of the lessons he’d had so far had given him as 
much to think about as tea with Hagrid. Had Hagrid 
collected that package just in time? Where was it 
now? And did Hagrid know something about Snape 
that he didn’t want to tell Harry? 



Page | 159 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




9 




THE MIDNIGHT DUEL 

Harry had never believed he would meet a boy he 
hated more than Dudley, but that was before he met 
Draco Malfoy. Still, first-year Gryffindors only had 
Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn’t have to put 
up with Malfoy much. Or at least, they didn’t until 
they spotted a notice pinned up in the Gryffindor 
common room that made them all groan. Flying 
lessons would be starting on Thursday — and 
Gryffindor and Slytherin would be learning together. 

“Typical,” said Harry darkly. “Just what I always 
wanted. To make a fool of myself on a broomstick in 
front of Malfoy.” 

He had been looking forward to learning to fly more 
than anything else. 

“You don’t know that you’ll make a fool of yourself,” 
said Ron reasonably. “Anyway, I know Malfoy’s always 
going on about how good he is at Quidditch, but I bet 
that’s all talk.” 

Page | 160 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling 



Malfoy certainly did talk about flying a lot. He 
complained loudly about first years never getting on 
the House Quidditch teams and told long, boastful 
stories that always seemed to end with him narrowly 
escaping Muggles in helicopters. He wasn’t the only 
one, though: the way Seamus Finnigan told it, he’d 
spent most of his childhood zooming around the 
countryside on his broomstick. Even Ron would tell 
anyone who’d listen about the time he’d almost hit a 
hang glider on Charlie’s old broom. Everyone from 
wizarding families talked about Quidditch constantly. 
Ron had already had a big argument with Dean 
Thomas, who shared their dormitory, about soccer. 
Ron couldn’t see what was exciting about a game with 
only one ball where no one was allowed to fly. Harry 
had caught Ron prodding Dean’s poster of West Ham 
soccer team, trying to make the players move. 

Neville had never been on a broomstick in his life, 
because his grandmother had never let him near one. 
