said Hermione. “It’s you Mr. Lovegood wants to help, 
not us.” 

He did as she suggested, handing her the Cloak to 
stow in the beaded bag. She then rapped three times 
on the thick black door, which was studded with iron 
nails and bore a knocker shaped like an eagle. 

Barely ten seconds passed, then the door was flung 
open and there stood Xenophilius Lovegood, barefoot 
and wearing what appeared to be a stained nightshirt 
His long white candyfloss hair was dirty and 
unkempt. Xenophilius had been positively dapper at 
Bill and Fleur’s wedding by comparison. 

“What? What is it? Who are you? What do you want?” 
he cried in a high-pitched, querulous voice, looking 
first at Hermione, then at Ron, and finally at Harry, 



Page | 449 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




upon which his mouth fell open in a perfect, comical 

O. 



“Hello, Mr. Lovegood,” said Harry, holding out his 
hand. “I’m Harry, Harry Potter.” 

Xenophilius did not take Harry’s hand, although the 
eye that was not pointing inward at his nose slid 
straight to the scar on Harry’s forehead. 

“Would it be okay if we came in?” asked Harry. 
“There’s something we’d like to ask you.” 

“I ... I’m not sure that’s advisable,” whispered 
Xenophilius. He swallowed and cast a quick look 
around the garden. “Rather a shock ... My word ... I 
... I’m afraid I don’t really think I ought to — ” 

“It won’t take long,” said Harry, slightly disappointed 
by this less-than-warm welcome. 

“I — oh, all right then. Come in, quickly. QuicklyV’ 

They were barely over the threshold when Xenophilius 
slammed the door shut behind them. They were 
standing in the most peculiar kitchen Harry had ever 
seen. The room was perfectly circular, so that it felt 
like being inside a giant pepper pot. Everything was 
curved to fit the walls — the stove, the sink, and the 
cupboards — and all of it had been painted with 
flowers, insects, and birds in bright primary colors. 
Harry thought he recognized Luna’s style: The effect, 
in such an enclosed space, was slightly 
overwhelming. 

In the middle of the floor, a wrought-iron spiral 
staircase led to the upper levels. There was a great 
deal of clattering and banging coming from overhead: 
Harry wondered what Luna could be doing. 

Page | 450 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You’d better come up,” said Xenophilius, still looking 
extremely uncomfortable, and he led the way. 

The room above seemed to be a combination of living 
room and workplace, and as such, was even more 
cluttered than the kitchen. Though much smaller and 
entirely round, the room somewhat resembled the 
Room of Requirement on the unforgettable occasion 
that it had transformed itself into a gigantic labyrinth 
comprised of centuries of hidden objects. There were 
piles upon piles of books and papers on every surface. 
Delicately made models of creatures Harry did not 
recognize, all flapping wings or snapping jaws, hung 
from the ceiling. 

Luna was not there: The thing that was making such 
a racket was a wooden object covered in magically 
turning cogs and wheels. It looked like the bizarre 
offspring of a workbench and a set of old shelves, but 
after a moment Harry deduced that it was an old- 
fashioned printing press, due to the fact that it was 
churning out Quibblers. 

“Excuse me,” said Xenophilius, and he strode over to 
the machine, seized a grubby tablecloth from beneath 
an immense number of books and papers, which all 
tumbled onto the floor, and threw it over the press, 
somewhat muffling the loud bangs and clatters. He 
then faced Harry. 

“Why have you come here?” 

Before Harry could speak, however, Hermione let out 
a small cry of shock. 

“Mr. Lovegood — what’s that?” 

She was pointing at an enormous, gray spiral horn, 
not unlike that of a unicorn, which had been 

Page | 451 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




mounted on the wall, protruding several feet into the 
room. 

“It is the horn of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack,” said 
Xenophilius. 

“No it isn’t!” said Hermione. 

“Hermione,” muttered Harry, embarrassed, “now’s not 
the moment — ” 

“But Harry, it’s an Erumpent horn! It’s a Class B 
Tradeable Material and it’s an extraordinarily 
dangerous thing to have in a house!” 

“How d’you know it’s an Erumpent horn?” asked Ron, 
edging away from the horn as fast as he could, given 
the extreme clutter of the room. 

“There’s a description in Fantastic Beasts and Where 
to Find Them .! Mr. Lovegood, you need to get rid of it 
straightaway, don’t you know it can explode at the 
slightest touch?” 

“The Crumple-Horned Snorkack,” said Xenophilius 
very clearly, a mulish look upon his face, “is a shy 
and highly magical creature, and its horn — ” 

“Mr. Lovegood, I recognize the grooved markings 
around the base, that’s an Erumpent horn and it’s 
incredibly dangerous — I don’t know where you got it 



“I bought it,” said Xenophilius dogmatically, “two 
weeks ago, from a delightful young wizard who knew 
of my interest in the exquisite Snorkack. A Christmas 
surprise for my Luna. Now,” he said, turning to 
Harry, “why exactly have you come here, Mr. Potter?” 



Page | 452 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We need some help,” said Harry, before Hermione 
could start again. 



“Ah,” said Xenophilius. “Help. Hmm.” 

His good eye moved again to Harry’s scar. He seemed 
simultaneously terrified and mesmerized. 

“Yes. The thing is ... helping Harry Potter ... rather 
dangerous ...” 

“Aren’t you the one who keeps telling everyone it’s 
their first duty to help Harry?” said Ron. “In that 
magazine of yours?” 

Xenophilius glanced behind him at the concealed 
printing press, still banging and clattering beneath 
the tablecloth. 

“Er — yes, I have expressed that view. However — ” 

“That’s for everyone else to do, not you personally?” 
said Ron. 

Xenophilius did not answer. He kept swallowing, his 
eyes darting between the three of them. Harry had the 
impression that he was undergoing some painful 
internal struggle. 

“Where’s Luna?” asked Hermione. “Let’s see what she 
thinks.” 

Xenophilius gulped. He seemed to be steeling himself. 
Finally he said in a shaky voice difficult to hear over 
the noise of the printing press, “Luna is down at the 
stream, fishing for Freshwater Plimpies. She ... she 
will like to see you. I’ll go and call her and then — 
yes, very well. I shall try to help you.” 

Page | 453 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He disappeared down the spiral staircase and they 
heard the front door open and close. They looked at 
each other. 

“Cowardly old wart,” said Ron. “Luna’s got ten times 
his guts.” 

“He’s probably worried about what’ll happen to them 
if the Death Eaters find out I was here,” said Harry. 

“Well, I agree with Ron,” said Hermione. “Awful old 
hypocrite, telling everyone else to help you and trying 
to worm out of it himself. And for heaven’s sake keep 
away from that horn.” 

Harry crossed to the window on the far side of the 
room. He could see a stream, a thin, glittering ribbon 
lying far below them at the base of the hill. They were 
very high up; a bird fluttered past the window as he 
stared in the direction of the Burrow, now invisible 
beyond another line of hills. Ginny was over there 
somewhere. They were closer to each other today than 
they had been since Bill and Fleur’s wedding, but she 
could have no idea he was gazing toward her now, 
thinking of her. He supposed he ought to be glad of it; 
anyone he came into contact with was in danger, 
Xenophilius’s attitude proved that. 

He turned away from the window and his gaze fell 
upon another peculiar object standing upon the 
cluttered, curved sideboard: a stone bust of a 
beautiful but austere-looking witch wearing a most 
bizarre-looking headdress. Two objects that 
resembled golden ear trumpets curved out from the 
sides. A tiny pair of glittering blue wings was stuck to 
a leather strap that ran over the top of her head, 
while one of the orange radishes had been stuck to a 
second strap around her forehead. 



Page | 454 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Look at this,” said Harry. 



“Fetching,” said Ron. “Surprised he didn’t wear that 
to the wedding.” 

They heard the front door close, and a moment later 
Xenophilius had climbed back up the spiral staircase 
into the room, his thin legs now encased in 
Wellington boots, bearing a tray of ill-assorted 
teacups and a steaming teapot. 

“Ah, you have spotted my pet invention,” he said, 
shoving the tray into Hermione’s arms and joining 
Harry at the statue’s side. “Modeled, fittingly enough, 
upon the head of the beautiful Rowena Ravenclaw. 

‘Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasureV ” 

He indicated the objects like ear trumpets. 

“These are the Wrackspurt siphons — to remove all 
sources of distraction from the thinker’s immediate 
area. Here,” he pointed out the tiny wings, “a billywig 
propeller, to induce an elevated frame of mind. 
Finally,” he pointed to the orange radish, “the 
Dirigible Plum, so as to enhance the ability to accept 
the extraordinary.” 

Xenophilius strode back to the tea tray, which 
Hermione had managed to balance precariously on 
one of the cluttered side tables. 

“May I offer you all an infusion of Gurdyroots?” said 
Xenophilius. “We make it ourselves.” As he started to 
pour out the drink, which was as deeply purple as 
beetroot juice, he added, “Luna is down beyond 
Bottom Bridge, she is most excited that you are here. 
She ought not to be too long, she has caught nearly 
enough Plimpies to make soup for all of us. Do sit 
down and help yourselves to sugar. 

Page | 455 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Now,” he removed a tottering pile of papers from an 
armchair and sat down, his Wellingtoned legs 
crossed, “how may I help you, Mr. Potter?” 

“Well,” said Harry, glancing at Hermione, who nodded 
encouragingly, “it’s about that symbol you were 
wearing around your neck at Bill and Fleur’s 
wedding, Mr. Lovegood. We wondered what it meant.” 

Xenophilius raised his eyebrows. 

“Are you referring to the sign of the Deathly Hallows?” 



Page | 456 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 





THE TALE OF THE THREE 
BROTHERS 

Harry turned to look at Ron and Hermione. Neither of 
them seemed to have understood what Xenophilius 
had said either. 

“The Deathly Hallows?” 

“That’s right,” said Xenophilius. “You haven’t heard of 
them? I’m not surprised. Very, very few wizards 
believe. Witness that knuckle-headed young man at 
your brother’s wedding,” he nodded at Ron, “who 
attacked me for sporting the symbol of a well-known 
Dark wizard! Such ignorance. There is nothing Dark 
about the Hallows — at least, not in that crude sense. 
One simply uses the symbol to reveal oneself to other 
believers, in the hope that they might help one with 
the Quest.” 

He stirred several lumps of sugar into his Gurdyroot 
infusion and drank some. 



Page | 457 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“I’m sorry,” said Harry. “I still don’t really 
understand.” 

To be polite, he took a sip from his cup too, and 
almost gagged: The stuff was quite disgusting, as 
though someone had liquidized bogey-flavored Every 
Flavor Beans. 

“Well, you see, believers seek the Deathly Hallows,” 
said Xenophilius, smacking his lips in apparent 
appreciation of the Gurdyroot infusion. 

“But what are the Deathly Hallows?” asked Hermione. 

Xenophilius set aside his empty teacup. 

“I assume that you are all familiar with “The Tale of 
the Three Brothers’?” 

Harry said, “No,” but Ron and Hermione both said, 
“Yes.” Xenophilius nodded gravely. 

“Well, well, Mr. Potter, the whole thing starts with 
The Tale of the Three Brothers’ ... I have a copy 
somewhere. ...” 

He glanced vaguely around the room, at the piles of 
parchment and books, but Hermione said, “I’ve got a 
copy, Mr. Lovegood, I’ve got it right here.” 

And she pulled out The Tales of Beedle the Bard from 
the small, beaded bag. 

“The original?” inquired Xenophilius sharply, and 
when she nodded, he said, “Well then, why don’t you 
read it aloud? Much the best way to make sure we all 
understand.” 



Page | 458 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Er ... all right,” said Hermione nervously. She opened 
the book, and Harry saw that the symbol they were 
investigating headed the top of the page as she gave a 
little cough, and began to read. 

“ ‘There were once three brothers who were traveling 
along a lonely, winding road at twilight — ’ ” 

“Midnight, our mum always told us,” said Ron, who 
had stretched out, arms behind his head, to listen. 
Hermione shot him a look of annoyance. 

“Sorry, I just think it’s a bit spookier if it’s midnight!” 
said Ron. 

“Yeah, because we really need a bit more fear in our 
lives,” said Harry before he could stop himself. 
Xenophilius did not seem to be paying much 
attention, but was staring out of the window at the 
sky. “Go on, Hermione.” 

“ ‘In time, the brothers reached a river too deep to 
wade through and too dangerous to swim across. 
However, these brothers were learned in the magical 
arts, and so they simply waved their wands and made 
a bridge appear across the treacherous water. They 
were halfway across it when they found their path 
blocked by a hooded figure. 

“ ‘And Death spoke to them — ’ ” 

“Sorry,” interjected Harry, “but Death spoke to them?” 
“It’s a fairy tale, Harry!” 

“Right, sorry. Go on.” 

“ ‘And Death spoke to them. He was angry that he had 
been cheated out of three new victims, for travelers 

Page | 459 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




usually drowned in the river. But Death was cunning. 
He pretended to congratulate the three brothers upon 
their magic, and said that each had earned a prize for 
having been clever enough to evade him. 

“ ‘So the oldest brother, who was a combative man, 
asked for a wand more powerful than any in existence: 
a wand that must always win duels for its owner, a 
wand worthy of a wizard who had conquered Death! 

So Death crossed to an elder tree on the banks of the 
river, fashioned a wand from a branch that hung there, 
and gave it to the oldest brother. 

“ ‘Then the second brother, who was an arrogant man, 
decided that he wanted to humiliate Death still further, 
and asked for the power to recall others from Death. So 
Death picked up a stone from the riverbank and gave it 
to the second brother, and told him that the stone 
would have the power to bring back the dead. 

“ ‘And then Death asked the third and youngest 
brother what he would like. The youngest brother was 
the humblest and also the wisest of the brothers, and 
he did not trust Death. So he asked for something that 
would enable him to go forth from that place without 
being followed by Death. And Death, most unwillingly, 
handed over his own Cloak of Invisibility.’ ” 

“Death’s got an Invisibility Cloak?” Harry interrupted 
again. 

“So he can sneak up on people,” said Ron. 

“Sometimes he gets bored of running at them, 
flapping his arms and shrieking ... sorry, Hermione.” 

“ ‘Then Death stood aside and allowed the three 
brothers to continue on their way, and they did so, 
talking with wonder of the adventure they had had, 
and admiring Death’s gifts. 

Page | 460 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ ‘In due course the brothers separated, each for his 
own destination. 

“ ‘The first brother traveled on for a week or more, and 
reaching a distant village, sought out a fellow wizard 
with whom he had a quarrel. Naturally, with the Elder 
Wand as his weapon, he could not fail to win the duel 
that followed. Leaving his enemy dead upon the floor, 
the oldest brother proceeded to an inn, where he 
boasted loudly of the powerful wand he had snatched 
from Death himself, and of how it made him invincible. 

“ ‘That very night, another wizard crept upon the oldest 
brother as he lay, wine-sodden, upon his bed. The thief 
took the wand and, for good measure, slit the oldest 
brother’s throat. 

“ ‘And so Death took the first brother for his own. 

“ ‘Meanwhile, the second brother journeyed to his own 
home, where he lived alone. Here he took out the stone 
that had the power to recall the dead, and turned it 
thrice in his hand. To his amazement and his delight, 
the figure of the girl he had once hoped to marry, 
before her untimely death, appeared at once before 
him. 

“ ‘Yet she was sad and cold, separated from him as by 
a veil. Though she had returned to the mortal world, 
she did not truly belong there and suffered. Finally the 
second brother, driven mad with hopeless longing, 
killed himself so as truly to join her. 

“ ‘And so Death took the second brother for his own. 

“ ‘But though Death searched for the third brother for 
many years, he was never able to find him. It was only 
when he had attained a great age that the youngest 
brother finally took off the Cloak of Invisibility and 

Page | 461 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




gave it to his son. And then he greeted Death as an old 
friend, and went with him gladly, and, equals, they 
departed this life. ’ ” 

Hermione closed the book. It was a moment or two 
before Xenophilius seemed to realize that she had 
stopped reading, then he withdrew his gaze from the 
window and said, “Well, there you are.” 

“Sorry?” said Hermione, sounding confused. 

“Those are the Deathly Hallows,” said Xenophilius. 

He picked up a quill from a packed table at his elbow, 
and pulled a torn piece of parchment from between 
more books. 

“The Elder Wand,” he said, and he drew a straight 
vertical line upon the parchment. “The Resurrection 
Stone,” he said, and he added a circle on top of the 
line. “The Cloak of Invisibility,” he finished, enclosing 
both line and circle in a triangle, to make the symbol 
that so intrigued Hermione. “Together,” he said, “the 
Deathly Hallows.” 

“But there’s no mention of the words ‘Deathly 
Hallows’ in the story,” said Hermione. 

“Well, of course not,” said Xenophilius, maddeningly 
smug. “That is a children’s tale, told to amuse rather 
than to instruct. Those of us who understand these 
matters, however, recognize that the ancient story 
refers to three objects, or Hallows, which, if united, 
will make the possessor master of Death.” 

There was a short silence in which Xenophilius 
glanced out of the window. Already the sun was low 
in the sky. 



Page | 462 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Luna ought to have enough Plimpies soon,” he said 
quietly. 

“When you say ‘master of Death’ — ” said Ron. 

“Master,” said Xenophilius, waving an airy hand. 
“Conqueror. Vanquisher. Whichever term you prefer.” 

“But then ... do you mean ...” said Hermione slowly, 
and Harry could tell that she was trying to keep any 
trace of skepticism out of her voice, “that you believe 
these objects — these Hallows — actually exist?” 

Xenophilius raised his eyebrows again. 

“Well, of course.” 

“But,” said Hermione, and Harry could hear her 
restraint starting to crack, “Mr. Lovegood, how can 
you possibly believe — ?” 

“Luna has told me all about you, young lady,” said 
Xenophilius. “You are, I gather, not unintelligent, but 
painfully limited. Narrow. Close-minded.” 

“Perhaps you ought to try on the hat, Hermione,” said 
Ron, nodding toward the ludicrous headdress. His 
voice shook with the strain of not laughing. 

“Mr. Lovegood,” Hermione began again. “We all know 
that there are such things as Invisibility Cloaks. They 
are rare, but they exist. But — ” 

“Ah, but the Third Hallow is a true Cloak of 
Invisibility, Miss Granger! I mean to say, it is not a 
traveling cloak imbued with a Disillusionment Charm, 
or carrying a Bedazzling Hex, or else woven from 
Demiguise hair, which will hide one initially but fade 
with the years until it turns opaque. We are talking 
Page | 463 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




about a cloak that really and truly renders the wearer 
completely invisible, and endures eternally, giving 
constant and impenetrable concealment, no matter 
what spells are cast at it. How many cloaks have you 
ever seen like that, Miss Granger?” 

Hermione opened her mouth to answer, then closed it 
again, looking more confused than ever. She, Harry, 
and Ron glanced at one another, and Harry knew that 
they were all thinking the same thing. It so happened 
that a cloak exactly like the one Xenophilius had just 
described was in the room with them at that very 
moment. 

“Exactly,” said Xenophilius, as if he had defeated 
them all in reasoned argument. “None of you have 
ever seen such a thing. The possessor would be 
immeasurably rich, would he not?” 

He glanced out of the window again. The sky was now 
tinged with the faintest trace of pink. 

“All right,” said Hermione, disconcerted. “Say the 
Cloak existed ... what about the stone, Mr. Lovegood? 
The thing you call the Resurrection Stone?” 

“What of it?” 

“Well, how can that be real?” 

“Prove that it is not,” said Xenophilius. 

Hermione looked outraged. 

“But that’s — I’m sorry, but that’s completely 
ridiculous! How can I possibly prove it doesn’t exist? 
Do you expect me to get hold of — of all the pebbles 
in the world and test them? I mean, you could claim 



Page | 464 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




that anything’s real if the only basis for believing in it 
is that nobody’s proved it doesn’t exist!” 

“Yes, you could,” said Xenophilius. “I am glad to see 
that you are opening your mind a little.” 

“So the Elder Wand,” said Harry quickly, before 
Hermione could retort, “you think that exists too?” 

“Oh, well, in that case there is endless evidence,” said 
Xenophilius. “The Elder Wand is the Hallow that is 
most easily traced, because of the way in which it 
passes from hand to hand.” 

“Which is what?” asked Harry. 

“Which is that the possessor of the wand must 
capture it from its previous owner, if he is to be truly 
master of it,” said Xenophilius. “Surely you have 
heard of the way the wand came to Egbert the 
Egregious, after his slaughter of Emeric the Evil? Of 
how Godelot died in his own cellar after his son, 
Hereward, took the wand from him? Of the dreadful 
Loxias, who took the wand from Barnabas Deverill, 
whom he had killed? The bloody trail of the Elder 
Wand is splattered across the pages of Wizarding 
history.” 

Harry glanced at Hermione. She was frowning at 
Xenophilius, but she did not contradict him. 

“So where do you think the Elder Wand is now?” 
asked Ron. 

“Alas, who knows?” said Xenophilius, as he gazed out 
of the window. “Who knows where the Elder Wand 
lies hidden? The trail goes cold with Arcus and Livius. 
Who can say which of them really defeated Loxias, 



Page | 465 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




and which took the wand? And who can say who may 
have defeated them? History, alas, does not tell us.” 

There was a pause. Finally Hermione asked stiffly, 
“Mr. Lovegood, does the Peverell family have anything 
to do with the Deathly Hallows?” 

Xenophilius looked taken aback as something shifted 
in Harry’s memory, but he could not locate it. Peverell 
...he had heard that name before. ... 

“But you have been misleading me, young woman!” 
said Xenophilius, now sitting up much straighter in 
his chair and goggling at Hermione. “I thought you 
were new to the Hallows Quest! Many of us Questers 
believe that the Peverells have everything — 
everything ! — to do with the Hallows!” 

“Who are the Peverells?” asked Ron. 

“That was the name on the grave with the mark on it, 
in Godric’s Hollow,” said Hermione, still watching 
Xenophilius. “Ignotus Peverell.” 

“Exactly!” said Xenophilius, his forefinger raised 
pedantically. “The sign of the Deathly Hallows on 
Ignotus ’s grave is conclusive proof!” 

“Of what?” asked Ron. 

“Why, that the three brothers in the story were 
actually the three Peverell brothers, Antioch, Cadmus, 
and Ignotus! That they were the original owners of the 
Hallows!” 

With another glance at the window he got to his feet, 
picked up the tray, and headed for the spiral 
staircase. 



Page | 466 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You will stay for dinner?” he called, as he vanished 
downstairs again. “Everybody always requests our 
recipe for Freshwater Plimpy soup.” 

“Probably to show the Poisoning Department at St. 
Mungo’s,” said Ron under his breath. 

Harry waited until they could hear Xenophilius 
moving about in the kitchen downstairs before 
speaking. 

“What do you think?” he asked Hermione. 

“Oh, Harry,” she said wearily, “it’s a pile of utter 
rubbish. This can’t be what the sign really means. 
This must just be his weird take on it. What a waste 
of time.” 

“I s’pose this is the man who brought us Crumple- 
Horned Snorkacks,” said Ron. 

“You don’t believe it either?” Harry asked him. 

“Nah, that story’s just one of those things you tell 
kids to teach them lessons, isn’t it? ‘Don’t go looking 
for trouble, don’t pick fights, don’t go messing around 
with stuff that’s best left alone! Just keep your head 
down, mind your own business, and you’ll be okay’ 
Come to think of it,” Ron added, “maybe that story’s 
why elder wands are supposed to be unlucky.” 

“What are you talking about?” 

“One of those superstitions, isn’t it? ‘May-born 
witches will marry Muggles.’ ‘Jinx by twilight, undone 
by midnight.’ ‘Wand of elder, never prosper.’ You 
must’ve heard them. My mum’s full of them.” 



Page | 467 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry and I were raised by Muggles,” Hermione 
reminded him. “We were taught different 
superstitions.” She sighed deeply as a rather pungent 
smell drifted up from the kitchen. The one good thing 
about her exasperation with Xenophilius was that it 
seemed to have made her forget that she was annoyed 
at Ron. “I think you’re right,” she told him. “It’s just a 
morality tale, it’s obvious which gift is best, which one 
you’d choose — ” 

The three of them spoke at the same time; Hermione 
said, “the Cloak,” Ron said, “the wand,” and Harry 
said, “the stone.” 

They looked at each other, half surprised, half 
amused. 

“You’re supposed to say the Cloak,” Ron told 
Hermione, “but you wouldn’t need to be invisible if 
you had the wand. An unbeatable wand, Hermione, 
come on!” 

“We’ve already got an Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. 

“And it’s helped us rather a lot, in case you hadn’t 
noticed!” said Hermione. “Whereas the wand would be 
bound to attract trouble — ” 

“Only if you shouted about it,” argued Ron. “Only if 
you were prat enough to go dancing around, waving it 
over your head, and singing, ‘I’ve got an unbeatable 
wand, come and have a go if you think you’re hard 
enough.’ As long as you kept your trap shut — ” 

“Yes, but could you keep your trap shut?” said 
Hermione, looking skeptical. “You know, the only true 
thing he said to us was that there have been stories 
about extra- powerful wands for hundreds of years.” 



Page | 468 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“There have?” asked Harry. 



Hermione looked exasperated: The expression was so 
endearingly familiar that Harry and Ron grinned at 
each other. 

“The Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny, they crop up 
under different names through the centuries, usually 
in the possession of some Dark wizard who’s boasting 
about them. Professor Binns mentioned some of 
them, but — oh, it’s all nonsense. Wands are only as 
powerful as the wizards who use them. Some wizards 
just like to boast that theirs are bigger and better 
than other people’s.” 

“But how do you know,” said Harry, “that those 
wands — the Deathstick and the Wand of Destiny — 
aren’t the same wand, surfacing over the centuries 
under different names?” 

“What, and they’re all really the Elder Wand, made by 
Death?” said Ron. 

Harry laughed: The strange idea that had occurred to 
him was, after all, ridiculous. His wand, he reminded 
himself, had been of holly, not elder, and it had been 
made by Ollivander, whatever it had done that night 
Voldemort had pursued him across the skies. And if it 
had been unbeatable, how could it have been broken? 

“So why would you take the stone?” Ron asked him. 

“Well, if you could bring people back, we could have 
Sirius ... Mad-Eye ... Dumbledore ... my parents. ...” 

Neither Ron nor Hermione smiled. 

“But according to Beedle the Bard, they wouldn’t 
want to come back, would they?” said Harry, thinking 

Page | 469 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling 




about the tale they had just heard. “I don’t suppose 
there have been loads of other stories about a stone 
that can raise the dead, have there?” he asked 
Hermione. 

“No,” she replied sadly. “I don’t think anyone except 
Mr. Lovegood could kid themselves that’s possible. 
Beedle probably took the idea from the Sorcerer’s 
Stone; you know, instead of a stone to make you 
immortal, a stone to reverse death.” 

The smell from the kitchen was getting stronger: It 
was something like burning underpants. Harry 
wondered whether it would be possible to eat enough 
of whatever Xenophilius was cooking to spare his 
feelings. 

“What about the Cloak, though?” said Ron slowly. 
“Don’t you realize, he’s right? I’ve got so used to 
Harry’s Cloak and how good it is, I never stopped to 
think. I’ve never heard of one like Harry’s. It’s 
infallible. We’ve never been spotted under it — ” 

“Of course not — we’re invisible when we’re under it, 
Ron!” 

“But all the stuff he said about other cloaks, and 
they’re not exactly ten a Knut, you know, is true! It’s 
never occurred to me before, but I’ve heard stuff 
about charms wearing off cloaks when they get old, or 
them being ripped apart by spells so they’ve got holes 
in. Harry’s was owned by his dad, so it’s not exactly 
new, is it, but it’s just ... perfect!” 

“Yes, all right, but Ron, the stone ...” 

As they argued in whispers, Harry moved around the 
room, only half listening. Reaching the spiral stair, he 
raised his eyes absently to the next level and was 

Page | 470 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




distracted at once. His own face was looking back at 
him from the ceiling of the room above. 

After a moment’s bewilderment, he realized that it 
was not a mirror, but a painting. Curious, he began 
to climb the stairs. 

“Harry, what are you doing? I don’t think you should 
look around when he’s not here!” 

But Harry had already reached the next level. 

Luna had decorated her bedroom ceiling with five 
beautifully painted faces: Harry, Ron, Hermione, 
Ginny, and Neville. They were not moving as the 
portraits at Hogwarts moved, but there was a certain 
magic about them all the same: Harry thought they 
breathed. What appeared to be fine golden chains 
wove around the pictures, linking them together, but 
after examining them for a minute or so, Harry 
realized that the chains were actually one word, 
repeated a thousand times in golden ink: friends . . . 
friends . . . friends . . . 

Harry felt a great rush of affection for Luna. He looked 
around the room. There was a large photograph 
beside the bed, of a young Luna and a woman who 
looked very like her. They were hugging. Luna looked 
rather better-groomed in this picture than Harry had 
ever seen her in life. The picture was dusty. This 
struck Harry as slightly odd. He stared around. 

Something was wrong. The pale blue carpet was also 
thick with dust. There were no clothes in the 
wardrobe, whose doors stood ajar. The bed had a 
cold, unfriendly look, as though it had not been slept 
in for weeks. A single cobweb stretched over the 
nearest window, across a bloodred sky. 



Page | 471 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s wrong?” Hermione asked as Harry descended 
the staircase, but before he could respond, 
Xenophilius reached the top of the stairs from the 
kitchen, now holding a tray laden with bowls. 

“Mr. Lovegood,” said Harry. “Where’s Luna?” 
