threw the rest of the newspaper onto the rubbish pile 
and turned to face the room. It was much tidier. The 
only things left out of place were today’s Daily 
Prophet, still lying on the bed, and on top of it, the 
piece of broken mirror. 

Harry moved across the room, slid the mirror 
fragment off today’s Prophet, and unfolded the 
newspaper. He had merely glanced at the headline 
when he had taken the rolled-up paper from the 
delivery owl early that morning and thrown it aside, 
after noting that it said nothing about Voldemort. 
Harry was sure that the Ministry was leaning on the 
Prophet to suppress news about Voldemort. It was 
only now, therefore, that he saw what he had missed. 

Across the bottom half of the front page a smaller 
headline was set over a picture of Dumbledore 
striding along looking harried: 

DUMBLEDORE — THE TRUTH AT LAST? 

Coming next week, the shocking story of the flawed 
genius considered by many to be the greatest wizard 
of his generation. Stripping away the popular image of 
serene, silver-bearded wisdom, Rita Skeeter reveals 
the disturbed childhood, the lawless youth, the 
lifelong feuds, and the guilty secrets that Dumbledore 
carried to his grave. WHY was the man tipped to be 
Minister of Magic content to remain a mere 
headmaster? WHAT was the real purpose of the secret 
organization known as the Order of the Phoenix? 

HOW did Dumbledore really meet his end? 

Page | 24 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The answers to these and many more questions are 
explored in the explosive new biography, The Life and 
Lies of Albus Dumbledore, by Rita Skeeter, exclusively 
interviewed by Betty Braithwaite, page 13, inside. 

Harry ripped open the paper and found page thirteen. 
The article was topped with a picture showing 
another familiar face: a woman wearing jeweled 
glasses with elaborately curled blonde hair, her teeth 
bared in what was clearly supposed to be a winning 
smile, wiggling her fingers up at him. Doing his best 
to ignore this nauseating image, Harry read on. 

In person, Rita Skeeter is much warmer and softer 
than her famously ferocious quill-portraits might 
suggest. Greeting me in the hallway of her cozy home, 
she leads me straight into the kitchen for a cup of tea, 
a slice of pound cake and, it goes without saying, a 
steaming vat of freshest gossip. 

“Well, of course, Dumbledore is a biographer’s dream,” 
says Skeeter. “Such a long, full life. I’m sure my book 
will be the first of very, very many.” 

Skeeter was certainly quick off the mark. Her nine- 
hundred-page book was completed a mere four weeks 
after Dumbledore ’s mysterious death in June. I ask 
her how she managed this superfast feat. 

“Oh, when you’ve been a journalist as long as I have, 
working to a deadline is second nature. I knew that 
the Wizarding world was clamoring for the full story 
and I wanted to be the first to meet that need.” 

I mention the recent, widely publicized remarks of 
Elphias Doge, Special Advisor to the Wizengamot and 
longstanding friend of Albus Dumbledore’s, that 
“Skeeter’s book contains less fact than a Chocolate 
Frog card. ” 

Page | 25 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Skeeter throws back her head and laughs. 



“Darling Dodgy! I remember interviewing him a few 
years back about merpeople rights, bless him. 
Completely gaga, seemed to think we were sitting at 
the bottom of Lake Windermere, kept telling me to 
watch out for trout.” 

And yet Elphias Doge’s accusations of inaccuracy 
have been echoed in many places. Does Skeeter really 
feel that four short weeks have been enough to gain a 
full picture of Dumbledore’s long and extraordinary 
life? 

“Oh, my dear,” beams Skeeter, rapping me 
affectionately across the knuckles, “you know as well 
as I do how much information can be generated by a 
fat bag of Galleons, a refusal to hear the word ‘no,’ 
and a nice sharp Quick-Quotes Quill! People were 
queuing to dish the dirt on Dumbledore anyway. Not 
everyone thought he was so wonderful, you know — 
he trod on an awful lot of important toes. But old 
Dodgy Doge can get off his high hippogriff, because 
I’ve had access to a source most journalists would 
swap their wands for, one who has never spoken in 
public before and who was close to Dumbledore 
during the most turbulent and disturbing phase of 
his youth.” 

The advance publicity for Skeeter’ s biography has 
certainly suggested that there will be shocks in store 
for those who believe Dumbledore to have led a 
blameless life. What were the biggest surprises she 
uncovered, I ask? 

“Now, come off it, Betty, I’m not giving away all the 
highlights before anybody’s bought the book!” laughs 
Skeeter. “But I can promise that anybody who still 
thinks Dumbledore was white as his beard is in for a 

Page | 26 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




rude awakening! Let’s just say that nobody hearing 
him rage against You-Know-Who would have dreamed 
that he dabbled in the Dark Arts himself in his youth! 
And for a wizard who spent his later years pleading 
for tolerance, he wasn’t exactly broad-minded when 
he was younger! Yes, Albus Dumbledore had an 
extremely murky past, not to mention that very fishy 
family, which he worked so hard to keep hushed up.” 

I ask whether Skeeter is referring to Dumbledore ’s 
brother, Aberforth, whose conviction by the 
Wizengamot for misuse of magic caused a minor 
scandal fifteen years ago. 

“Oh, Aberforth is just the tip of the dung heap, ” laughs 
Skeeter. “No, no, I’m talking about much worse than a 
brother with a fondness for fiddling about with goats, 
worse even than the Muggle-maiming father — 
Dumbledore couldn’t keep either of them quiet anyway, 
they were both charged by the Wizengamot. No, it’s the 
mother and the sister that intrigued me, and a little 
digging uncovered a positive nest of nastiness — but, 
as I say, you’ll have to wait for chapters nine to twelve 
for full details. All I can say now is, it’s no wonder 
Dumbledore never talked about how his nose got 
broken. ” 

Family skeletons notwithstanding, does Skeeter deny 
the brilliance that led to Dumbledore ’s many magical 
discoveries? 

“He had brains,” she concedes, “although many now 
question whether he could really take full credit for all 
of his supposed achievements. As I reveal in chapter 
sixteen, Ivor Dillonsby claims he had already 
discovered eight uses of dragon’s blood when 
Dumbledore ‘borrowed’ his papers.” 



Page | 27 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




But the importance of some of Dumbledore’s 
achievements cannot, I venture, be denied. What of 
his famous defeat of Grindelwald? 

“Oh, now, I’m glad you mentioned Grindelwald,” says 
Skeeter with a tantalizing smile. “I’m afraid those who 
go dewy-eyed over Dumbledore’s spectacular victory 
must brace themselves for a bombshell — or perhaps 
a Dungbomb. Very dirty business indeed. All I’ll say 
is, don’t be so sure that there really was the 
spectacular duel of legend. After they’ve read my 
book, people may be forced to conclude that 
Grindelwald simply conjured a white handkerchief 
from the end of his wand and came quietly!” 

Skeeter refuses to give any more away on this 
intriguing subject, so we turn instead to the 
relationship that will undoubtedly fascinate her 
readers more than any other. 

“Oh yes,” says Skeeter, nodding briskly, “I devote an 
entire chapter to the whole Potter-Dumbledore 
relationship. It’s been called unhealthy, even sinister. 
Again, your readers will have to buy my book for the 
whole story, but there is no question that 
Dumbledore took an unnatural interest in Potter from 
the word go. Whether that was really in the boy’s best 
interests — well, we’ll see. It’s certainly an open secret 
that Potter has had a most troubled adolescence.” 

I ask whether Skeeter is still in touch with Harry 
Potter, whom she so famously interviewed last year: a 
breakthrough piece in which Potter spoke exclusively 
of his conviction that You-Know-Who had returned. 

“Oh, yes, we’ve developed a close bond,” says Skeeter. 
“Poor Potter has few real friends, and we met at one of 
the most testing moments of his life — the Triwizard 
Tournament. I am probably one of the only people 

Page | 28 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




alive who can say that they know the real Harry 
Potter.” 

Which leads us neatly to the many rumors still 
circulating about Dumbledore’s final hours. Does 
Skeeter believe that Potter was there when 
Dumbledore died? 

“Well, I don’t want to say too much — it’s all in the 
book — but eyewitnesses inside Hogwarts castle saw 
Potter running away from the scene moments after 
Dumbledore fell, jumped, or was pushed. Potter later 
gave evidence against Severus Snape, a man against 
whom he has a notorious grudge. Is everything as it 
seems? That is for the Wizarding community to decide 
— once they’ve read my book.” 

On that intriguing note, I take my leave. There can be 
no doubt that Skeeter has quilled an instant 
bestseller. Dumbledore’s legions of admirers, 
meanwhile, may well be trembling at what is soon to 
emerge about their hero. 

Harry reached the bottom of the article, but 
continued to stare blankly at the page. Revulsion and 
fury rose in him like vomit; he balled up the 
newspaper and threw it, with all his force, at the wall, 
where it joined the rest of the rubbish heaped around 
his overflowing bin. 

He began to stride blindly around the room, opening 
empty drawers and picking up books only to replace 
them on the same piles, barely conscious of what he 
was doing, as random phrases from Rita’s article 
echoed in his head: An entire chapter to the whole 
Potter-Dumbledore relationship . . . It’s been called 
unhealthy, even sinister. . . . He dabbled in the Dark 
Arts himself in his youth . . . I’ve had access to a source 
most journalists would swap their wands for ... 

Page | 29 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Lies!” Harry bellowed, and through the window he 
saw the next-door neighbor, who had paused to 
restart his lawn mower, look up nervously. 

Harry sat down hard on the bed. The broken bit of 
mirror danced away from him; he picked it up and 
turned it over in his fingers, thinking, thinking of 
Dumbledore and the lies with which Rita Skeeter was 
defaming him. ... 

A flash of brightest blue. Harry froze, his cut finger 
slipping on the jagged edge of the mirror again. He 
had imagined it, he must have done. He glanced over 
his shoulder, but the wall was a sickly peach color of 
Aunt Petunia’s choosing: There was nothing blue 
there for the mirror to reflect. He peered into the 
mirror fragment again, and saw nothing but his own 
bright green eye looking back at him. 

He had imagined it, there was no other explanation; 
imagined it, because he had been thinking of his dead 
headmaster. If anything was certain, it was that the 
bright blue eyes of Albus Dumbledore would never 
pierce him again. 



Page | 30 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




3 




THE DURSLEYS DEPARTING 

The sound of the front door slamming echoed up the 
stairs and a voice yelled, “Oi! You!” 

Sixteen years of being addressed thus left Harry in no 
doubt whom his uncle was calling; nevertheless, he 
did not immediately respond. He was still gazing at 
the mirror fragment in which, for a split second, he 
had thought he saw Dumbledore’s eye. It was not 
until his uncle bellowed, “BOY!” that Harry got slowly 
to his feet and headed for the bedroom door, pausing 
to add the piece of broken mirror to the rucksack 
filled with things he would be taking with him. 

“You took your time!” roared Vernon Dursley when 
Harry appeared at the top of the stairs. “Get down 
here, I want a word!” 

Harry strolled downstairs, his hands deep in his jeans 
pockets. When he reached the living room he found 
all three Dursleys. They were dressed for traveling: 
Uncle Vernon in a fawn zip-up jacket, Aunt Petunia in 



Page | 31 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



a neat salmon-colored coat, and Dudley, Harry’s 
large, blond, muscular cousin, in his leather jacket. 



“Yes?” asked Harry. 

“Sit down!” said Uncle Vernon. Harry raised his 
eyebrows. “Please!” added Uncle Vernon, wincing 
slightly as though the word was sharp in his throat. 

Harry sat. He thought he knew what was coming. His 
uncle began to pace up and down, Aunt Petunia and 
Dudley following his movements with anxious 
expressions. Finally, his large purple face crumpled 
with concentration, Uncle Vernon stopped in front of 
Harry and spoke. 

“I’ve changed my mind,” he said. 

“What a surprise,” said Harry. 

“Don’t you take that tone — ” began Aunt Petunia in a 
shrill voice, but Vernon Dursley waved her down. 

“It’s all a lot of claptrap,” said Uncle Vernon, glaring 
at Harry with piggy little eyes. “I’ve decided I don’t 
believe a word of it. We’re staying put, we’re not going 
anywhere.” 

Harry looked up at his uncle and felt a mixture of 
exasperation and amusement. Vernon Dursley had 
been changing his mind every twenty-four hours for 
the past four weeks, packing and unpacking and 
repacking the car with every change of heart. Harry’s 
favorite moment had been the one when Uncle 
Vernon, unaware that Dudley had added his 
dumbbells to his case since the last time it had been 
unpacked, had attempted to hoist it back into the 
boot and collapsed with roars of pain and much 
swearing. 

Page | 32 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“According to you,” Vernon Dursley said now, 
resuming his pacing up and down the living room, 
“we — Petunia, Dudley, and I — are in danger. From 



— from — ” 



“Some of ‘my lot,’ right,” said Harry. 

“Well, I don’t believe it,” repeated Uncle Vernon, 
coming to a halt in front of Harry again. “I was awake 
half the night thinking it all over, and I believe it’s a 
plot to get the house.” 

“The house?” repeated Harry. “What house?” 

“ This house!” shrieked Uncle Vernon, the vein in his 
forehead starting to pulse. “Our house! House prices 
are skyrocketing around here! You want us out of the 
way and then you’re going to do a bit of hocus-pocus 
and before we know it the deeds will be in your name 
and — ” 

“Are you out of your mind?” demanded Harry. “A plot 
to get this house? Are you actually as stupid as you 
look?” 

“Don’t you dare — !” squealed Aunt Petunia, but 
again, Vernon waved her down: Slights on his 
personal appearance were, it seemed, as nothing to 
the danger he had spotted. 

“Just in case you’ve forgotten,” said Harry, “I’ve 
already got a house, my godfather left me one. So why 
would I want this one? All the happy memories?” 

There was silence. Harry thought he had rather 
impressed his uncle with this argument. 

“You claim,” said Uncle Vernon, starting to pace yet 
again, “that this Lord Thing — ” 

Page | 33 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ — Voldemort,” said Harry impatiently, “and we’ve 
been through this about a hundred times already. 

This isn’t a claim, it’s fact, Dumbledore told you last 
year, and Kingsley and Mr. Weasley — ” 

Vernon Dursley hunched his shoulders angrily, and 
Harry guessed that his uncle was attempting to ward 
off recollections of the unannounced visit, a few days 
into Harry’s summer holidays, of two fully grown 
wizards. The arrival on the doorstep of Kingsley 
Shacklebolt and Arthur Weasley had come as a most 
unpleasant shock to the Dursleys. Harry had to 
admit, however, that as Mr. Weasley had once 
demolished half of the living room, his reappearance 
could not have been expected to delight Uncle 
Vernon. 

“ — Kingsley and Mr. Weasley explained it all as well,” 
Harry pressed on remorselessly. “Once I’m seventeen, 
the protective charm that keeps me safe will break, 
and that exposes you as well as me. The Order is sure 
Voldemort will target you, whether to torture you to 
try and find out where I am, or because he thinks by 
holding you hostage I’d come and try to rescue you.” 

Uncle Vernon’s and Harry’s eyes met. Harry was sure 
that in that instant they were both wondering the 
same thing. Then Uncle Vernon walked on and Harry 
resumed, “You’ve got to go into hiding and the Order 
wants to help. You’re being offered serious protection, 
the best there is.” 

Uncle Vernon said nothing, but continued to pace up 
and down. Outside the sun hung low over the privet 
hedges. The next-door neighbor’s lawn mower stalled 
again. 

“I thought there was a Ministry of Magic?” asked 
Vernon Dursley abruptly. 

Page | 34 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“There is,” said Harry, surprised. 



“Well, then, why can’t they protect us? It seems to me 
that, as innocent victims, guilty of nothing more than 
harboring a marked man, we ought to qualify for 
government protection!” 

Harry laughed; he could not help himself. It was so 
very typical of his uncle to put his hopes in the 
establishment, even within this world that he 
despised and mistrusted. 

“You heard what Mr. Weasley and Kingsley said,” 
Harry replied. “We think the Ministry has been 
infiltrated.” 

Uncle Vernon strode to the fireplace and back, 
breathing so heavily that his great black mustache 
rippled, his face still purple with concentration. 

“All right,” he said, stopping in front of Harry yet 
again. “All right, let’s say, for the sake of argument, 
we accept this protection. I still don’t see why we can’t 
have that Kingsley bloke.” 

Harry managed not to roll his eyes, but with difficulty. 
This question had also been addressed half a dozen 
times. 

“As I’ve told you,” he said through gritted teeth, 
“Kingsley is protecting the Mug — I mean, your Prime 
Minister.” 

“Exactly — he’s the best!” said Uncle Vernon, pointing 
at the blank television screen. The Dursleys had 
spotted Kingsley on the news, walking along 
discreetly behind the Muggle Prime Minister as he 
visited a hospital. This, and the fact that Kingsley had 
mastered the knack of dressing like a Muggle, not to 
Page | 35 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




mention a certain reassuring something in his slow, 
deep voice, had caused the Dursleys to take to 
Kingsley in a way that they had certainly not done 
with any other wizard, although it was true that they 
had never seen him with his earring in. 

“Well, he’s taken,” said Harry. “But Hestia Jones and 
Dedalus Diggle are more than up to the job — ” 

“If we’d even seen CVs ...” began Uncle Vernon, but 
Harry lost patience. Getting to his feet, he advanced 
on his uncle, now pointing at the TV set himself. 

“These accidents aren’t accidents — the crashes and 
explosions and derailments and whatever else has 
happened since we last watched the news. People are 
disappearing and dying and he’s behind it — 
Voldemort. I’ve told you this over and over again, he 
kills Muggles for fun. Even the fogs — they’re caused 
by dementors, and if you can’t remember what they 
are, ask your son!” 

Dudley’s hands jerked upward to cover his mouth. 
With his parents’ and Harry’s eyes upon him, he 
slowly lowered them again and asked, “There are . . . 
more of them?” 

“More?” laughed Harry. “More than the two that 
attacked us, you mean? Of course there are, there are 
hundreds, maybe thousands by this time, seeing as 
they feed off fear and despair — ” 

“All right, all right,” blustered Vernon Dursley. 

“You’ve made your point — ” 

“I hope so,” said Harry, “because once I’m seventeen, 
all of them — Death Eaters, dementors, maybe even 
Inferi — which means dead bodies enchanted by a 
Dark wizard — will be able to find you and will 

Page | 36 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




certainly attack you. And if you remember the last 
time you tried to outrun wizards, I think you 11 agree 
you need help.” 

There was a brief silence in which the distant echo of 
Hagrid smashing down a wooden front door seemed 
to reverberate through the intervening years. Aunt 
Petunia was looking at Uncle Vernon; Dudley was 
staring at Harry. Finally Uncle Vernon blurted out, 
“But what about my work? What about Dudley’s 
school? I don’t suppose those things matter to a 
bunch of layabout wizards — ” 

“Don’t you understand?” shouted Harry. “They will 
torture and kill you like they did my parents !” 

“Dad,” said Dudley in a loud voice, “Dad — I’m going 
with these Order people.” 

“Dudley,” said Harry, “for the first time in your life, 
you’re talking sense.” 

He knew that the battle was won. If Dudley was 
frightened enough to accept the Order’s help, his 
parents would accompany him: There could be no 
question of being separated from their Diddykins. 
Harry glanced at the carriage clock on the 
mantelpiece. 

“They’ll be here in about five minutes,” he said, and 
when none of the Dursleys replied, he left the room. 
The prospect of parting — probably forever — from 
his aunt, uncle, and cousin was one that he was able 
to contemplate quite cheerfully, but there was 
nevertheless a certain awkwardness in the air. What 
did you say to one another at the end of sixteen years’ 
solid dislike? 



Page | 37 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Back in his bedroom, Harry fiddled aimlessly with his 
rucksack, then poked a couple of owl nuts through 
the bars of Hedwig’s cage. They fell with dull thuds to 
the bottom, where she ignored them. 

“We’re leaving soon, really soon,” Harry told her. “And 
then you’ll be able to fly again.” 

The doorbell rang. Harry hesitated, then headed back 
out of his room and downstairs. It was too much to 
expect Hestia and Dedalus to cope with the Dursleys 
on their own. 

“Harry Potter!” squeaked an excited voice, the 
moment Harry had opened the door; a small man in a 
mauve top hat was sweeping him a deep bow. “An 
honor, as ever!” 

“Thanks, Dedalus,” said Harry, bestowing a small and 
embarrassed smile upon the dark-haired Hestia. “It’s 
really good of you to do this. ... They’re through here, 
my aunt and uncle and cousin. ...” 

“Good day to you, Harry Potter’s relatives!” said 
Dedalus happily, striding into the living room. The 
Dursleys did not look at all happy to be addressed 
thus; Harry half expected another change of mind. 
Dudley shrank nearer to his mother at the sight of 
the witch and wizard. 

“I see you are packed and ready. Excellent! The plan, 
as Harry has told you, is a simple one,” said Dedalus, 
pulling an immense pocket watch out of his waistcoat 
and examining it. “We shall be leaving before Harry 
does. Due to the danger of using magic in your house 
— Harry being still underage, it could provide the 
Ministry with an excuse to arrest him — we shall be 
driving, say, ten miles or so, before Disapparating to 
the safe location we have picked out for you. You 
Page | 38 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




know how to drive, I take it?” he asked Uncle Vernon 
politely. 

“Know how to — ? Of course I ruddy well know how to 
drive!” spluttered Uncle Vernon. 

“Very clever of you, sir, very clever, I personally would 
be utterly bamboozled by all those buttons and 
knobs,” said Dedalus. He was clearly under the 
impression that he was flattering Vernon Dursley, 
who was visibly losing confidence in the plan with 
every word Dedalus spoke. 

“Can’t even drive,” he muttered under his breath, his 
mustache rippling indignantly, but fortunately neither 
Dedalus nor Hestia seemed to hear him. 

“You, Harry,” Dedalus continued, “will wait here for 
your guard. There has been a little change in the 
arrangements — ” 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry at once. “I thought 
Mad-Eye was going to come and take me by Side- 
Along- Apparition?” 

“Can’t do it,” said Hestia tersely. “Mad-Eye will 
explain.” 

The Dursleys, who had listened to all of this with 
looks of utter incomprehension on their faces, jumped 
as a loud voice screeched, “Hurry up\” Harry looked 
all around the room before realizing that the voice 
had issued from Dedalus’s pocket watch. 

“Quite right, we’re operating to a very tight schedule,” 
said Dedalus, nodding at his watch and tucking it 
back into his waistcoat. “We are attempting to time 
your departure from the house with your family’s 
Disapparition, Harry; thus, the charm breaks at the 
Page | 39 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




moment you all head for safety.” He turned to the 
Dursleys. “Well, are we all packed and ready to go?” 

None of them answered him. Uncle Vernon was still 
staring, appalled, at the bulge in Dedalus’s waistcoat 
pocket. 

“Perhaps we should wait outside in the hall, 

Dedalus,” murmured Hestia. She clearly felt that it 
would be tactless for them to remain in the room 
while Harry and the Dursleys exchanged loving, 
possibly tearful farewells. 

“There’s no need,” Harry muttered, but Uncle Vernon 
made any further explanation unnecessary by saying 
loudly, 

“Well, this is good-bye, then, boy.” 

He swung his right arm upward to shake Harry’s 
hand, but at the last moment seemed unable to face 
it, and merely closed his fist and began swinging it 
backward and forward like a metronome. 

“Ready, Diddy?” asked Aunt Petunia, fussily checking 
the clasp of her handbag so as to avoid looking at 
Harry altogether. 

Dudley did not answer, but stood there with his 
mouth slightly ajar, reminding Harry a little of the 
giant, Grawp. 

“Come along, then,” said Uncle Vernon. 

He had already reached the living room door when 
Dudley mumbled, “I don’t understand.” 

“What don’t you understand, popkin?” asked Aunt 
Petunia, looking up at her son. 

Page | 40 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Dudley raised a large, hamlike hand to point at 
Harry. 

“Why isn’t he coming with us?” 

Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia froze where they 
stood, staring at Dudley as though he had just 
expressed a desire to become a ballerina. 

“What?” said Uncle Vernon loudly. 

“Why isn’t he coming too?” asked Dudley. 

“Well, he — he doesn’t want to,” said Uncle Vernon, 
turning to glare at Harry and adding, “You don’t want 
to, do you?” 

“Not in the slightest,” said Harry. 

“There you are,” Uncle Vernon told Dudley. “Now 
come on, we’re off.” 

He marched out of the room. They heard the front 
door open, but Dudley did not move and after a few 
faltering steps Aunt Petunia stopped too. 

“What now?” barked Uncle Vernon, reappearing in the 
doorway. 

It seemed that Dudley was struggling with concepts 
too difficult to put into words. After several moments 
of apparently painful internal struggle he said, “But 
where’s he going to go?” 

Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon looked at each other. 
It was clear that Dudley was frightening them. Hestia 
Jones broke the silence. 



Page | 41 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“But . . . surely you know where your nephew is 
going?” she asked, looking bewildered. 

“Certainly we know,” said Vernon Dursley. “He’s off 
with some of your lot, isn’t he? Right, Dudley, let’s get 
in the car, you heard the man, we’re in a hurry.” 

Again, Vernon Dursley marched as far as the front 
door, but Dudley did not follow. 

“Off with some of our lot?” 

Hestia looked outraged. Harry had met this attitude 
before: Witches and wizards seemed stunned that his 
closest living relatives took so little interest in the 
famous Harry Potter. 

“It’s fine,” Harry assured her. “It doesn’t matter, 
honestly.” 

“Doesn’t matter?” repeated Hestia, her voice rising 
ominously. “Don’t these people realize what you’ve 
been through? What danger you are in? The unique 
position you hold in the hearts of the anti-Voldemort 
movement?” 

“Er — no, they don’t,” said Harry. “They think I’m a 
waste of space, actually, but I’m used to — ” 

“I don’t think you’re a waste of space.” 

If Harry had not seen Dudley’s lips move, he might 
not have believed it. As it was, he stared at Dudley for 
several seconds before accepting that it must have 
been his cousin who had spoken; for one thing, 

Dudley had turned red. Harry was embarrassed and 
astonished himself. 

“Well ... er ... thanks, Dudley.” 

Page | 42 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Again, Dudley appeared to grapple with thoughts too 
unwieldy for expression before mumbling, “You saved 
my life.” 

“Not really,” said Harry. “It was your soul the 
dementor would have taken. ...” 

He looked curiously at his cousin. They had had 
virtually no contact during this summer or last, as 
Harry had come back to Privet Drive so briefly and 
kept to his room so much. It now dawned on Harry, 
however, that the cup of cold tea on which he had 
trodden that morning might not have been a booby 
trap at all. Although rather touched, he was 
nevertheless quite relieved that Dudley appeared to 
have exhausted his ability to express his feelings. 
After opening his mouth once or twice more, Dudley 
subsided into scarlet-faced silence. 

Aunt Petunia burst into tears. Hestia Jones gave her 
an approving look that changed to outrage as Aunt 
Petunia ran forward and embraced Dudley rather 
than Harry. 

“S-so sweet, Dudders ...” she sobbed into his massive 
chest. “S-such a lovely b-boy ... s-saying thank you 



“But he hasn’t said thank you at all!” said Hestia 
indignantly. “He only said he didn’t think Harry was a 
waste of space!” 

“Yeah, but coming from Dudley that’s like ‘I love you,’ 
” said Harry, torn between annoyance and a desire to 
laugh as Aunt Petunia continued to clutch at Dudley 
as if he had just saved Harry from a burning building. 



Page | 43 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Are we going or not?” roared Uncle Vernon, 
reappearing yet again at the living room door. “I 
thought we were on a tight schedule!” 

“Yes — yes, we are,” said Dedalus Diggle, who had 
been watching these exchanges with an air of 
bemusement and now seemed to pull himself 
together. “We really must be off. Harry — ” 

He tripped forward and wrung Harry’s hand with both 
of his own. 

“ — good luck. I hope we meet again. The hopes of the 
Wizarding world rest upon your shoulders.” 

“Oh,” said Harry, “right. Thanks.” 

“Farewell, Harry,” said Hestia, also clasping his hand. 
“Our thoughts go with you.” 

“I hope everything’s okay,” said Harry with a glance 
toward Aunt Petunia and Dudley. 

“Oh, I’m sure we shall end up the best of chums,” 
said Diggle brightly, waving his hat as he left the 
room. Hestia followed him. 

Dudley gently released himself from his mother’s 
clutches and walked toward Harry, who had to 
repress an urge to threaten him with magic. Then 
Dudley held out his large, pink hand. 

“Blimey, Dudley,” said Harry over Aunt Petunia’s 
renewed sobs, “did the dementors blow a different 
personality into you?” 

“Dunno,” muttered Dudley. “See you, Harry.” 



Page | 44 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah ...” said Harry, taking Dudley’s hand and 
shaking it. “Maybe. Take care, Big D.” 

Dudley nearly smiled, then lumbered from the room. 
Harry heard his heavy footfalls on the graveled drive, 
and then a car door slammed. 

Aunt Petunia, whose face had been buried in her 
handkerchief, looked around at the sound. She did 
not seem to have expected to find herself alone with 
Harry. Hastily stowing her wet handkerchief into her 
pocket, she said, “Well — good-bye,” and marched 
toward the door without looking at him. 

“Good-bye,” said Harry. 

She stopped and looked back. For a moment Harry 
had the strangest feeling that she wanted to say 
something to him: She gave him an odd, tremulous 
look and seemed to teeter on the edge of speech, but 
then, with a little jerk of her head, she bustled out of 
the room after her husband and son. 



Page | 45 



Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE SEVEN POTTERS 

Harry ran back upstairs to his bedroom, arriving at 
the window just in time to see the Dursleys’ car 
swinging out of the drive and off up the road. 
Dedalus’s top hat was visible between Aunt Petunia 
and Dudley in the backseat. The car turned right at 
