


Page | 674 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, but naturally,” said Professor McGonagall. “You 
Death Eaters have your own private means of 
communication, I forgot.” 

Snape pretended not to have heard her. His eyes were 
still probing the air all about her, and he was moving 
gradually closer, with an air of hardly noticing what 
he was doing. 

“I did not know that it was your night to patrol the 
corridors, Minerva.” 

“You have some objection?” 

“I wonder what could have brought you out of your 
bed at this late hour?” 

“I thought I heard a disturbance,” said Professor 
McGonagall. 

“Really? But all seems calm.” 

Snape looked into her eyes. 

“Have you seen Harry Potter, Minerva? Because if you 
have, I must insist — ” 

Professor McGonagall moved faster than Harry could 
have believed: Her wand slashed through the air and 
for a split second Harry thought that Snape must 
crumple, unconscious, but the swiftness of his Shield 
Charm was such that McGonagall was thrown off 
balance. She brandished her wand at a torch on the 
wall and it flew out of its bracket: Harry, about to 
curse Snape, was forced to pull Luna out of the way 
of the descending flames, which became a ring of fire 
that filled the corridor and flew like a lasso at Snape 



Page | 675 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Then it was no longer fire, but a great black serpent 
that McGonagall blasted to smoke, which re-formed 
and solidified in seconds to become a swarm of 
pursuing daggers: Snape avoided them only by 
forcing the suit of armor in front of him, and with 
echoing clangs the daggers sank, one after another, 
into its breast — 

“Minerva!” said a squeaky voice, and looking behind 
him, still shielding Luna from flying spells, Harry saw 
Professors Flitwick and Sprout sprinting up the 
corridor toward them in their nightclothes, with the 
enormous Professor Slughorn panting along at the 
rear. 

“No!” squealed Flitwick, raising his wand. “You’ll do 
no more murder at Hogwarts!” 

Flitwick’s spell hit the suit of armor behind which 
Snape had taken shelter: With a clatter it came to life. 
Snape struggled free of the crushing arms and sent it 
flying back toward his attackers: Harry and Luna had 
to dive sideways to avoid it as it smashed into the wall 
and shattered. When Harry looked up again, Snape 
was in full flight, McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout all 
thundering after him: He hurtled through a classroom 
door and, moments later, he heard McGonagall cry, 
“Coward! COWARD !” 

“What’s happened, what’s happened?” asked Luna. 

Harry dragged her to her feet and they raced along 
the corridor, trailing the Invisibility Cloak behind 
them, into the deserted classroom where Professors 
McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout were standing at a 
smashed window. 

“He jumped,” said Professor McGonagall as Harry and 
Luna ran into the room. 

Page | 676 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You mean he’s dead?” Harry sprinted to the window, 
ignoring Flitwick’s and Sprout’s yells of shock at his 
sudden appearance. 

“No, he’s not dead,” said McGonagall bitterly. “Unlike 
Dumbledore, he was still carrying a wand ... and he 
seems to have learned a few tricks from his master.” 

With a tingle of horror, Harry saw in the distance a 
huge, batlike shape flying through the darkness 
toward the perimeter wall. 

There were heavy footfalls behind them, and a great 
deal of puffing: Slughorn had just caught up. 

“Harry!” he panted, massaging his immense chest 
beneath his emerald-green silk pajamas. “My dear 
boy ... what a surprise ... Minerva, do please explain. 
... Severus ... what ... ?” 

“Our headmaster is taking a short break,” said 
Professor McGonagall, pointing at the Snape-shaped 
hole in the window. 

“Professor!” Harry shouted, his hands at his forehead. 
He could see the Inferi-filled lake sliding beneath him, 
and he felt the ghostly green boat bump into the 
underground shore, and Voldemort leapt from it with 
murder in his heart — 

“Professor, we’ve got to barricade the school, he’s 
coming now!” 

“Very well. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is coming,” 
she told the other teachers. Sprout and Flitwick 
gasped; Slughorn let out a low groan. “Potter has 
work to do in the castle on Dumbledore’s orders. We 
need to put in place every protection of which we are 
capable while Potter does what he needs to do.” 

Page | 677 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You realize, of course, that nothing we do will be able 
to keep out You-Know-Who indefinitely?” squeaked 
Flitwick. 

“But we can hold him up,” said Professor Sprout. 

“Thank you, Pomona,” said Professor McGonagall, 
and between the two witches there passed a look of 
grim understanding. “I suggest we establish basic 
protection around the place, then gather our students 
and meet in the Great Hall. Most must be evacuated, 
though if any of those who are over age wish to stay 
and fight, I think they ought to be given the chance.” 

“Agreed,” said Professor Sprout, already hurrying 
toward the door. “I shall meet you in the Great Hall in 
twenty minutes with my House.” 

And as she jogged out of sight, they could hear her 
muttering, “Tentacula. Devil’s Snare. And Snargaluff 
pods ... yes, I’d like to see the Death Eaters fighting 
those.” 

“I can act from here,” said Flitwick, and although he 
could barely see out of it, he pointed his wand 
through the smashed window and started muttering 
incantations of great complexity. Harry heard a weird 
rushing noise, as though Flitwick had unleashed the 
power of the wind into the grounds. 

“Professor,” Harry said, approaching the little Charms 
master, “Professor, I’m sorry to interrupt, but this is 
important. Have you got any idea where the diadem of 
Ravenclaw is?” 

“ — Protego Horribilis — the diadem of Ravenclaw?” 
squeaked Flitwick. “A little extra wisdom never goes 
amiss, Potter, but I hardly think it would be much 
use in this situation!” 

Page | 678 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I only meant — do you know where it is? Have you 
ever seen it?” 

“Seen it? Nobody has seen it in living memory! Long 
since lost, boy!” 

Harry felt a mixture of desperate disappointment and 
panic. What, then, was the Horcrux? 

“We shall meet you and your Ravenclaws in the Great 
Hall, Filius!” said Professor McGonagall, beckoning to 
Harry and Luna to follow her. 

They had just reached the door when Slughorn 
rumbled into speech. 

“My word,” he puffed, pale and sweaty, his walrus 
mustache aquiver. “What a to-do! I’m not at all sure 
whether this is wise, Minerva. He is bound to find a 
way in, you know, and anyone who has tried to delay 
him will be in most grievous peril — ” 

“I shall expect you and the Slytherins in the Great 
Hall in twenty minutes, also,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “If you wish to leave with your students, 
we shall not stop you. But if any of you attempt to 
sabotage our resistance or take up arms against us 
within this castle, then, Horace, we duel to kill.” 

“Minerva!” he said, aghast. 

“The time has come for Slytherin House to decide 
upon its loyalties,” interrupted Professor McGonagall. 
“Go and wake your students, Horace.” 

Harry did not stay to watch Slughorn splutter: He and 
Luna ran after Professor McGonagall, who had taken 
up a position in the middle of the corridor and raised 
her wand. 

Page | 679 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Piertotum — oh, for heaven’s sake, Filch, not now — ” 



The aged caretaker had just come hobbling into view, 
shouting, “Students out of bed! Students in the 
corridors!” 

“They’re supposed to be, you blithering idiot!” shouted 
McGonagall. “Now go and do something constructive! 
Find Peeves!” 

“P-Peeves?” stammered Filch as though he had never 
heard the name before. 

“Yes, Peeves, you fool, Peevesl Haven’t you been 
complaining about him for a quarter of a century? Go 
and fetch him, at once!” 

Filch evidently thought Professor McGonagall had 
taken leave of her senses, but hobbled away, hunch- 
shouldered, muttering under his breath. 

“And now — Piertotum Locomotori” cried Professor 
McGonagall. 

And all along the corridor the statues and suits of 
armor jumped down from their plinths, and from the 
echoing crashes from the floors above and below, 
Harry knew that their fellows throughout the castle 
had done the same. 

“Hogwarts is threatened!” shouted Professor 
McGonagall. “Man the boundaries, protect us, do 
your duty to our school!” 

Clattering and yelling, the horde of moving statues 
stampeded past Harry: some of them smaller, others 
larger, than life. There were animals too, and the 
clanking suits of armor brandished swords and 
spiked balls on chains. 

Page | 680 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Now, Potter,” said McGonagall, “you and Miss 
Lovegood had better return to your friends and bring 
them to the Great Hall — I shall rouse the other 
Gryffindors.” 

They parted at the top of the next staircase, Harry 
and Luna running back toward the concealed 
entrance to the Room of Requirement. As they ran, 
they met crowds of students, most wearing traveling 
cloaks over their pajamas, being shepherded down to 
the Great Hall by teachers and prefects. 

“That was Potter!” 

“ Harry Potted” 

“It was him, I swear, I just saw him!” 

But Harry did not look back, and at last they reached 
the entrance to the Room of Requirement. Harry 
leaned against the enchanted wall, which opened to 
admit them, and he and Luna sped back down the 
steep staircase. 

“Wh — ?” 

As the room came into view, Harry slipped down a few 
stairs in shock. It was packed, far more crowded than 
when he had last been in there. Kingsley and Lupin 
were looking up at him, as were Oliver Wood, Katie 
Bell, Angelina Johnson and Alicia Spinnet, Bill and 
Fleur, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. 

“Harry, what’s happening?” said Lupin, meeting him 
at the foot of the stairs. 

“Voldemort’s on his way, they’re barricading the 
school — Snape’s run for it — What are you doing 
here? How did you know?” 

Page | 681 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We sent messages to the rest of Dumbledore’s Army,” 
Fred explained. “You couldn’t expect everyone to miss 
the fun, Harry, and the D.A. let the Order of the 
Phoenix know, and it all kind of snowballed.” 

“What first, Harry?” called George. “What’s going on?” 

“They’re evacuating the younger kids and everyone’s 
meeting in the Great Hall to get organized,” Harry 
said. “We’re fighting.” 

There was a great roar and a surge toward the foot of 
the stairs; he was pressed back against the wall as 
they ran past him, the mingled members of the Order 
of the Phoenix, Dumbledore’s Army, and Harry’s old 
Quidditch team, all with their wands drawn, heading 
up into the main castle. 

“Come on, Luna,” Dean called as he passed, holding 
out his free hand; she took it and followed him back 
up the stairs. 

The crowd was thinning: Only a little knot of people 
remained below in the Room of Requirement, and 
Harry joined them. Mrs. Weasley was struggling with 
Ginny. Around them stood Lupin, Fred, George, Bill, 
and Fleur. 

“You’re underage!” Mrs. Weasley shouted at her 
daughter as Harry approached. “I won’t permit it! The 
boys, yes, but you, you’ve got to go home!” 

“I won’t!” 

Ginny’s hair flew as she pulled her arm out of her 
mother’s grip. 

“I’m in Dumbledore’s Army — ” 



Page | 682 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“A teenagers’ gang!” 



“A teenagers’ gang that’s about to take him on, which 
no one else has dared to do!” said Fred. 

“She’s sixteen!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “She’s not old 
enough! What you two were thinking, bringing her 
with you — ” 

Fred and George looked slightly ashamed of 
themselves. 

“Mum’s right, Ginny,” said Bill gently. “You can’t do 
this. Everyone underage will have to leave, it’s only 
right.” 

“I can’t go home!” Ginny shouted, angry tears 
sparkling in her eyes. “My whole family’s here, I can’t 
stand waiting there alone and not knowing and — ” 

Her eyes met Harry’s for the first time. She looked at 
him beseechingly, but he shook his head and she 
turned away bitterly. 

“Fine,” she said, staring at the entrance to the tunnel 
back to the Hog’s Head. “I’ll say good-bye now, then, 
and—” 

There was a scuffling and a great thump: Someone 
else had clambered out of the tunnel, overbalanced 
slightly, and fallen. He pulled himself up on the 
nearest chair, looked around through lopsided horn- 
rimmed glasses, and said, “Am I too late? Has it 
started? I only just found out, so I — I — ” 

Percy spluttered into silence. Evidently he had not 
expected to run into most of his family. There was a 
long moment of astonishment, broken by Fleur 
turning to Lupin and saying, in a wildly transparent 

Page | 683 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




attempt to break the tension, “So — ’ow eez leetle 
Teddy?” 

Lupin blinked at her, startled. The silence between 
the Weasleys seemed to be solidifying, like ice. 

“I — oh yes — he’s fine!” Lupin said loudly. “Yes, 
Tonks is with him — at her mother’s — ” 

Percy and the other Weasleys were still staring at one 
another, frozen. 

“Here, I’ve got a picture!” Lupin shouted, pulling a 
photograph from inside his jacket and showing it to 
Fleur and Harry, who saw a tiny baby with a tuft of 
bright turquoise hair, waving fat fists at the camera. 

“I was a fool!” Percy roared, so loudly that Lupin 
nearly dropped his photograph. “I was an idiot, I was 
a pompous prat, I was a — a — ” 

“Ministry-loving, family-disowning, power-hungry 
moron,” said Fred. 

Percy swallowed. 

“Yes, I was!” 

“Well, you can’t say fairer than that,” said Fred, 
holding out his hand to Percy. 

Mrs. Weasley burst into tears. She ran forward, 
pushed Fred aside, and pulled Percy into a strangling 
hug, while he patted her on the back, his eyes on his 
father. 

“I’m sorry, Dad,” Percy said. 



Page | 684 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Mr. Weasley blinked rather rapidly, then he too 
hurried to hug his son. 

“What made you see sense, Perce?” inquired George. 

“It’s been coming on for a while,” said Percy, mopping 
his eyes under his glasses with a corner of his 
traveling cloak. “But I had to find a way out and it’s 
not so easy at the Ministry, they’re imprisoning 
traitors all the time. I managed to make contact with 
Aberforth and he tipped me off ten minutes ago that 
Hogwarts was going to make a fight of it, so here I 
am.” 



“Well, we do look to our prefects to take a lead at 
times such as these,” said George in a good imitation 
of Percy’s most pompous manner. “Now let’s get 
upstairs and fight, or all the good Death Eaters’ll be 
taken.” 

“So, you’re my sister-in-law now?” said Percy, shaking 
hands with Fleur as they hurried off toward the 
staircase with Bill, Fred, and George. 

“Ginny!” barked Mrs. Weasley. 

Ginny had been attempting, under cover of the 
reconciliation, to sneak upstairs too. 

“Molly, how about this,” said Lupin. “Why doesn’t 
Ginny stay here, then at least she’ll be on the scene 
and know what’s going on, but she won’t be in the 
middle of the fighting?” 



“That’s a good idea,” said Mr. Weasley firmly. “Ginny, 
you stay in this room, you hear me?” 



Page | 685 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ginny did not seem to like the idea much, but under 
her father’s unusually stern gaze, she nodded. Mr. 
and Mrs. Weasley and Lupin headed off for the stairs 
as well. 

“Where’s Ron?” asked Harry. “Where’s Hermione?” 

“They must have gone up to the Great Hall already,” 
Mr. Weasley called over his shoulder. 

“I didn’t see them pass me,” said Harry. 

“They said something about a bathroom,” said Ginny, 
“not long after you left.” 

“A bathroom?” 

Harry strode across the room to an open door leading 
off the Room of Requirement and checked the 
bathroom beyond. It was empty. 

“You’re sure they said bath — ?” 

But then his scar seared and the Room of 
Requirement vanished: He was looking through the 
high wrought-iron gates with winged boars on pillars 
at either side, looking through the dark grounds 
toward the castle, which was ablaze with lights. 
Nagini lay draped over his shoulders. He was 
possessed of that cold, cruel sense of purpose that 
preceded murder. 



Page | 686 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS 

The enchanted ceiling of the Great Hall was dark and 
scattered with stars, and below it the four long House 
tables were lined with disheveled students, some in 
traveling cloaks, others in dressing gowns. Here and 
there shone the pearly white figures of the school 
ghosts. Every eye, living and dead, was fixed upon 
Professor McGonagall, who was speaking from the 
raised platform at the top of the Hall. Behind her 
stood the remaining teachers, including the palomino 
centaur, Firenze, and the members of the Order of the 
Phoenix who had arrived to fight. 

"... evacuation will be overseen by Mr. Filch and 
Madam Pomfrey. Prefects, when I give the word, you 
will organize your House and take your charges, in an 
orderly fashion, to the evacuation point.” 

Many of the students looked petrified. However, as 
Harry skirted the walls, scanning the Gryffindor table 
for Ron and Hermione, Ernie Macmillan stood up at 
the Hufflepuff table and shouted, “And what if we 
want to stay and fight?” 

Page | 687 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



There was a smattering of applause. 

“If you are of age, you may stay,” said Professor 
McGonagall. 

“What about our things?” called a girl at the 
Ravenclaw table. “Our trunks, our owls?” 

“We have no time to collect possessions,” said 
Professor McGonagall. “The important thing is to get 
you out of here safely.” 

“Where’s Professor Snape?” shouted a girl from the 
Slytherin table. 

“He has, to use the common phrase, done a bunk,” 
replied Professor McGonagall, and a great cheer 
erupted from the Gryffindors, Hufflepuffs, and 
Ravenclaws. 

Harry moved up the Hall alongside the Gryffindor 
table, still looking for Ron and Hermione. As he 
passed, faces turned in his direction, and a great deal 
of whispering broke out in his wake. 

“We have already placed protection around the 
castle,” Professor McGonagall was saying, “but it is 
unlikely to hold for very long unless we reinforce it. I 
must ask you, therefore, to move quickly and calmly, 
and do as your prefects — ” 

But her final words were drowned as a different voice 
echoed throughout the Hall. It was high, cold, and 
clear: There was no telling from where it came; it 
seemed to issue from the walls themselves. Like the 
monster it had once commanded, it might have lain 
dormant there for centuries. 



Page | 688 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I know that you are preparing to fight.” There were 
screams amongst the students, some of whom 
clutched each other, looking around in terror for the 
source of the sound. “Your efforts are futile. You 
cannot fight me. I do not want to kill you. I have great 
respect for the teachers of Hogwarts. I do not want to 
spill magical blood.” 

There was silence in the Hall now, the kind of silence 
that presses against the eardrums, that seems too 
huge to be contained by walls. 

“Give me Harry Potter,” said Voldemort’s voice, “and 
none shall be harmed. Give me Harry Potter, and I 
shall leave the school untouched. Give me Harry 
Potter, and you will be rewarded. 

“You have until midnight.” 

The silence swallowed them all again. Every head 
turned, every eye in the place seemed to have found 
Harry, to hold him frozen in the glare of thousands of 
invisible beams. Then a figure rose from the Slytherin 
table and he recognized Pansy Parkinson as she 
raised a shaking arm and screamed, “But he’s there! 
Potter’s there\ Someone grab him!” 

Before Harry could speak, there was a massive 
movement. The Gryffindors in front of him had risen 
and stood facing, not Harry, but the Slytherins. Then 
the Hufflepuffs stood, and almost at the same 
moment, the Ravenclaws, all of them with their backs 
to Harry, all of them looking toward Pansy instead, 
and Harry, awestruck and overwhelmed, saw wands 
emerging everywhere, pulled from beneath cloaks and 
from under sleeves. 

“Thank you, Miss Parkinson,” said Professor 
McGonagall in a clipped voice. “You will leave the Hall 

Page | 689 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House could 
follow.” 

Harry heard the grinding of benches and then the 
sound of the Slytherins trooping out on the other side 
of the Hall. 

“Ravenclaws, follow on!” cried Professor McGonagall. 

Slowly the four tables emptied. The Slytherin table 
was completely deserted, but a number of older 
Ravenclaws remained seated while their fellows filed 
out; even more Hufflepuffs stayed behind, and half of 
Gryffindor remained in their seats, necessitating 
Professor McGonagall’s descent from the teachers’ 
platform to chivvy the underage on their way. 

“Absolutely not, Creevey, go! And you, Peakes!” 

Harry hurried over to the Weasleys, all sitting 
together at the Gryffindor table. 

“Where are Ron and Hermione?” 

“Haven’t you found — ?” began Mr. Weasley, looking 
worried. 

But he broke off as Kingsley had stepped forward on 
the raised platform to address those who had 
remained behind. 

“We’ve only got half an hour until midnight, so we 
need to act fast! A battle plan has been agreed 
between the teachers of Hogwarts and the Order of 
the Phoenix. Professors Flitwick, Sprout, and 
McGonagall are going to take groups of fighters up to 
the three highest towers — Ravenclaw, Astronomy, 
and Gryffindor — where they’ll have a good overview, 
excellent positions from which to work spells. 

Page | 690 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Meanwhile Remus” — he indicated Lupin — “Arthur” 
— he pointed toward Mr. Weasley, sitting at the 
Gryffindor table — “and I will take groups into the 
grounds. We’ll need somebody to organize defense of 
the entrances of the passageways into the school — ” 

“Sounds like a job for us,” called Fred, indicating 
himself and George, and Kingsley nodded his 
approval. 

“All right, leaders up here and we’ll divide up the 
troops!” 

“Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, hurrying up to 
him, as students flooded the platform, jostling for 
position, receiving instructions, “ Aren’t you supposed 
to be looking for something?” 

“What? Oh,” said Harry, “oh yeah!” 

He had almost forgotten about the Horcrux, almost 
forgotten that the battle was being fought so that he 
could search for it: The inexplicable absence of Ron 
and Hermione had momentarily driven every other 
thought from his mind. 

“Then go, Potter, go!” 

“Right — yeah — ” 

He sensed eyes following him as he ran out of the 
Great Hall again, into the entrance hall still crowded 
with evacuating students. He allowed himself to be 
swept up the marble staircase with them, but at the 
top he hurried off along a deserted corridor. Fear and 
panic were clouding his thought processes. He tried 
to calm himself, to concentrate on finding the 
Horcrux, but his thoughts buzzed as frantically and 
fruitlessly as wasps trapped beneath a glass. Without 
Page | 691 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Ron and Hermione to help him he could not seem to 
marshal his ideas. He slowed down, coming to a halt 
halfway along an empty passage, where he sat down 
upon the plinth of a departed statue and pulled the 
Marauder’s Map out of the pouch around his neck. 

He could not see Ron’s or Hermione’s names 
anywhere on it, though the density of the crowd of 
dots now making its way to the Room of Requirement 
might, he thought, be concealing them. He put the 
map away, pressed his hands over his face, and 
closed his eyes, trying to concentrate. ... 

Voldemort thought I’d go to Ravenclaw Tower. 

There it was: a solid fact, the place to start. Voldemort 
had stationed Alecto Carrow in the Ravenclaw 
common room, and there could only be one 
explanation: Voldemort feared that Harry already 
knew his Horcrux was connected to that House. 

But the only object anyone seemed to associate with 
Ravenclaw was the lost diadem . . . and how could the 
Horcrux be the diadem? How was it possible that 
Voldemort, the Slytherin, had found the diadem that 
had eluded generations of Ravenclaws? Who could 
have told him where to look, when nobody had seen 
the diadem in living memory? 

In living memory ... 

Beneath his fingers, Harry’s eyes flew open again. He 
leapt up from the plinth and tore back the way he had 
come, now in pursuit of his one last hope. The sound 
of hundreds of people marching toward the Room of 
Requirement grew louder and louder as he returned 
to the marble stairs. Prefects were shouting 
instructions, trying to keep track of the students in 
their own Houses; there was much pushing and 
shoving; Harry saw Zacharias Smith bowling over 
Page | 692 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




first-years to get to the front of the queue; here and 
there younger students were in tears, while older ones 
called desperately for friends or siblings. ... 

Harry caught sight of a pearly white figure drifting 
across the entrance hall below and yelled as loudly as 
he could over the clamor. 

“Nick! NICK! I need to talk to you!” 

He forced his way back through the tide of students, 
finally reaching the bottom of the stairs, where Nearly 
Headless Nick, ghost of Gryffindor Tower, stood 
waiting for him. 

“Harry! My dear boy!” 

Nick made to grasp Harry’s hands with both of his 
own: Harry’s felt as though they had been thrust into 
icy water. 

“Nick, you’ve got to help me. Who’s the ghost of 
Ravenclaw Tower?” 

Nearly Headless Nick looked surprised and a little 
offended. 

“The Gray Lady, of course; but if it is ghostly services 
you require — ?” 

“It’s got to be her — d’you know where she is?” 

“Let’s see. ...” 

Nick’s head wobbled a little on his ruff as he turned 
hither and thither, peering over the heads of the 
swarming students. 



Page | 693 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s her over there, Harry, the young woman with 
the long hair.” 

Harry looked in the direction of Nick’s transparent, 
pointing finger and saw a tall ghost who caught sight 
of Harry looking at her, raised her eyebrows, and 
drifted away through a solid wall. 

Harry ran after her. Once through the door of the 
corridor into which she had disappeared, he saw her 
at the very end of the passage, still gliding smoothly 
away from him. 

“Hey — wait — come back!” 

She consented to pause, floating a few inches from 
the ground. Harry supposed that she was beautiful, 
with her waist-length hair and floor-length cloak, but 
she also looked haughty and proud. Close to, he 
recognized her as a ghost he had passed several times 
in the corridor, but to whom he had never spoken. 

“You’re the Gray Lady?” 

She nodded but did not speak. 

“The ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?” 

“That is correct.” 

Her tone was not encouraging. 

“Please: I need some help. I need to know anything 
you can tell me about the lost diadem.” 

A cold smile curved her lips. 

“I am afraid,” she said, turning to leave, “that I cannot 
help you.” 

Page | 694 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“WAIT!” 



He had not meant to shout, but anger and panic were 
threatening to overwhelm him. He glanced at his 
watch as she hovered in front of him: It was a quarter 
to midnight. 

“This is urgent,” he said fiercely. “If that diadem’s at 
Hogwarts, I’ve got to find it, fast.” 

“You are hardly the first student to covet the diadem,” 
she said disdainfully. “Generations of students have 
badgered me — ” 

“This isn’t about trying to get better marks!” Harry 
shouted at her. “It’s about Voldemort — defeating 
Voldemort — or aren’t you interested in that?” 

She could not blush, but her transparent cheeks 
became more opaque, and her voice was heated as 
she replied, “Of course I — how dare you suggest — ?” 

“Well, help me, then!” 

Her composure was slipping. 

“It — it is not a question of — ” she stammered. “My 
mother’s diadem — ” 

“Your mother’s?” 

She looked angry with herself. 

“When I lived,” she said stiffly, “I was Helena 
Ravenclaw.” 

“You’re her daughter? But then, you must know what 
happened to it!” 



Page | 695 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“While the diadem bestows wisdom,” she said with an 
obvious effort to pull herself together, “I doubt that it 
would greatly increase your chances of defeating the 
wizard who calls himself Lord — ” 

“Haven’t I just told you, I’m not interested in wearing 
it!” Harry said fiercely. “There’s no time to explain — 
but if you care about Hogwarts, if you want to see 
Voldemort finished, you’ve got to tell me anything you 
know about the diadem!” 

She remained quite still, floating in midair, staring 
down at him, and a sense of hopelessness engulfed 
Harry. Of course, if she had known anything, she 
would have told Flitwick or Dumbledore, who had 
surely asked her the same question. He had shaken 
his head and made to turn away when she spoke in a 
low voice. 

“I stole the diadem from my mother.” 

“You — you did what?” 

“ I stole the diadem,” repeated Helena Ravenclaw in a 
whisper. “I sought to make myself cleverer, more 
important than my mother. I ran away with it.” 

He did not know how he had managed to gain her 
confidence, and did not ask; he simply listened, hard, 
as she went on: 

“My mother, they say, never admitted that the diadem 
was gone, but pretended that she had it still. She 
concealed her loss, my dreadful betrayal, even from 
the other founders of Hogwarts. 

“Then my mother fell ill — fatally ill. In spite of my 
perfidy, she was desperate to see me one more time. 
She sent a man who had long loved me, though I 

Page | 696 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




spurned his advances, to find me. She knew that he 
would not rest until he had done so.” 



Harry waited. She drew a deep breath and threw back 
her head. 

“He tracked me to the forest where I was hiding. 

When I refused to return with him, he became violent. 
The Baron was always a hot-tempered man. Furious 
