      gone out of him—life meaningless, mind-striking work. Sunlight
      streamed in on him, but he felt cold. The scene he had passed
      through had gone from him already, what was before him would not
      materialise, he could catch on to nothing; and he felt
      frightened, as if he had been hanging over the edge of a
      precipice, as if with another turn of the screw sanity would have
      failed him. “I’m not fit for it,” he thought; “I mustn’t—I’m not
      fit for it.” The cab sped on, and in mechanical procession trees,
      houses, people passed, but had no significance. “I feel very
      queer,” he thought; “I’ll take a Turkish bath.—I’ve been very
      near to something. It won’t do.” The cab whirred its way back
      over the bridge, up the Fulham Road, along the Park.

      “To the Hammam,” said Soames.

      Curious that on so warm a summer day, heat should be so
      comforting! Crossing into the hot room he met George Forsyte
      coming out, red and glistening.

      “Hallo!” said George; “what are you training for? You’ve not got
      much superfluous.”

      Buffoon! Soames passed him with his sideway smile. Lying back,
      rubbing his skin uneasily for the first signs of perspiration, he
      thought: “Let them laugh! I _won’t_ feel anything! I can’t stand
      violence! It’s not good for me!”




      CHAPTER VII A SUMMER NIGHT


      Soames left dead silence in the little study. “Thank you for that
      good lie,” said Jolyon suddenly. “Come out—the air in here is not
      what it was!”

      In front of a long high southerly wall on which were trained
      peach-trees the two walked up and down in silence. Old Jolyon had
      planted some cupressus-trees, at intervals, between this grassy
      terrace and the dipping meadow full of buttercups and ox-eyed
      daisies; for twelve years they had flourished, till their dark
      spiral shapes had quite a look of Italy. Birds fluttered softly
      in the wet shrubbery; the swallows swooped past, with a
      steel-blue sheen on their swift little bodies; the grass felt
      springy beneath the feet, its green refreshed; butterflies chased
      each other. After that painful scene the quiet of Nature was
      wonderfully poignant. Under the sun-soaked wall ran a narrow
      strip of garden-bed full of mignonette and pansies, and from the
      bees came a low hum in which all other sounds were set—the mooing
      of a cow deprived of her calf, the calling of a cuckoo from an
      elm-tree at the bottom of the meadow. Who would have thought that
      behind them, within ten miles, London began—that London of the
      Forsytes, with its wealth, its misery; its dirt and noise; its
      jumbled stone isles of beauty, its grey sea of hideous brick and
      stucco? That London which had seen Irene’s early tragedy, and
      Jolyon’s own hard days; that web; that princely workhouse of the
      possessive instinct!

      And while they walked Jolyon pondered those words: “I hope you’ll
      treat him as you treated me.” That would depend on himself. Could
      he trust himself? Did Nature permit a Forsyte not to make a slave
      of what he adored? Could beauty be confided to him? Or should she
      not be just a visitor, coming when she would, possessed for
      moments which passed, to return only at her own choosing? “We are
      a breed of spoilers!” thought Jolyon, “close and greedy; the
      bloom of life is not safe with us. Let her come to me as she
      will, when she will, not at all if she will not. Let me be just
      her stand-by, her perching-place; never—never her cage!”

      She was the chink of beauty in his dream. Was he to pass through
      the curtains now and reach her? Was the rich stuff of many
      possessions, the close encircling fabric of the possessive
      instinct walling in that little black figure of himself, and
      Soames—was it to be rent so that he could pass through into his
      vision, find there something not of the senses only? “Let me,” he
      thought, “ah! let me only know how not to grasp and destroy!”

      But at dinner there were plans to be made. To-night she would go
      back to the hotel, but tomorrow he would take her up to London.
      He must instruct his solicitor—Jack Herring. Not a finger must be
      raised to hinder the process of the Law. Damages exemplary,
      judicial strictures, costs, what they liked—let it go through at
      the first moment, so that her neck might be out of chancery at
      last! To-morrow he would see Herring—they would go and see him
      together. And then—abroad, leaving no doubt, no difficulty about
      evidence, making the lie she had told into the truth. He looked
      round at her; and it seemed to his adoring eyes that more than a
      woman was sitting there. The spirit of universal beauty, deep,
      mysterious, which the old painters, Titian, Giorgione,
      Botticelli, had known how to capture and transfer to the faces of
      their women—this flying beauty seemed to him imprinted on her
      brow, her hair, her lips, and in her eyes.

      “And this is to be mine!” he thought. “It frightens me!”

      After dinner they went out on to the terrace to have coffee. They
      sat there long, the evening was so lovely, watching the summer
      night come very slowly on. It was still warm and the air smelled
      of lime blossom—early this summer. Two bats were flighting with
      the faint mysterious little noise they make. He had placed the
      chairs in front of the study window, and moths flew past to visit
      the discreet light in there. There was no wind, and not a whisper
      in the old oak-tree twenty yards away! The moon rose from behind
      the copse, nearly full; and the two lights struggled, till
      moonlight conquered, changing the colour and quality of all the
      garden, stealing along the flagstones, reaching their feet,
      climbing up, changing their faces.

      “Well,” said Jolyon at last, “you’ll be tired, dear; we’d better
      start. The maid will show you Holly’s room,” and he rang the
      study bell. The maid who came handed him a telegram. Watching her
      take Irene away, he thought: “This must have come an hour or more
      ago, and she didn’t bring it out to us! That shows! Well, we’ll
      be hung for a sheep soon!” And, opening the telegram, he read:

      “JOLYON FORSYTE, Robin Hill.—Your son passed painlessly away on
      June 20th. Deep sympathy”—some name unknown to him.

      He dropped it, spun round, stood motionless. The moon shone in on
      him; a moth flew in his face. The first day of all that he had
      not thought almost ceaselessly of Jolly. He went blindly towards
      the window, struck against the old armchair—his father’s—and sank
      down on to the arm of it. He sat there huddled forward, staring
      into the night. Gone out like a candle flame; far from home, from
      love, all by himself, in the dark! His boy! From a little chap
      always so good to him—so friendly! Twenty years old, and cut down
      like grass—to have no life at all! “I didn’t really know him,” he
      thought, “and he didn’t know me; but we loved each other. It’s
      only love that matters.”

      To die out there—lonely—wanting them—wanting home! This seemed to
      his Forsyte heart more painful, more pitiful than death itself.
      No shelter, no protection, no love at the last! And all the
      deeply rooted clanship in him, the family feeling and essential
      clinging to his own flesh and blood which had been so strong in
      old Jolyon was so strong in all the Forsytes—felt outraged, cut,
      and torn by his boy’s lonely passing. Better far if he had died
      in battle, without time to long for them to come to him, to call
      out for them, perhaps, in his delirium!

      The moon had passed behind the oak-tree now, endowing it with
      uncanny life, so that it seemed watching him—the oak-tree his boy
      had been so fond of climbing, out of which he had once fallen and
      hurt himself, and hadn’t cried!

      The door creaked. He saw Irene come in, pick up the telegram and
      read it. He heard the faint rustle of her dress. She sank on her
      knees close to him, and he forced himself to smile at her. She
      stretched up her arms and drew his head down on her shoulder. The
      perfume and warmth of her encircled him; her presence gained
      slowly his whole being.




      CHAPTER VIII JAMES IN WAITING


      Sweated to serenity, Soames dined at the Remove and turned his
      face toward Park Lane. His father had been unwell lately. This
      would have to be kept from him! Never till that moment had he
      realised how much the dread of bringing James’ grey hairs down
      with sorrow to the grave had counted with him; how intimately it
      was bound up with his own shrinking from scandal. His affection
      for his father, always deep, had increased of late years with the
      knowledge that James looked on him as the real prop of his
      decline. It seemed pitiful that one who had been so careful all
      his life and done so much for the family name—so that it was
      almost a byword for solid, wealthy respectability—should at his
      last gasp have to see it in all the newspapers. This was like
      lending a hand to Death, that final enemy of Forsytes. “I must
      tell mother,” he thought, “and when it comes on, we must keep the
      papers from him somehow. He sees hardly anyone.” Letting himself
      in with his latchkey, he was beginning to ascend he stairs when
      he became conscious of commotion on the second-floor landing. His
      mother’s voice was saying:

      “Now, James, you’ll catch cold. Why can’t you wait quietly?”

      His father’s answering

      “Wait? I’m always waiting. Why doesn’t he come in?”

      “You can speak to him to-morrow morning, instead of making a guy
      of yourself on the landing.”

      “He’ll go up to bed, I shouldn’t wonder. I shan’t sleep.”

      “Now come back to bed, James.”

      “Um! I might die before to-morrow morning for all you can tell.”

      “You shan’t have to wait till to-morrow morning; I’ll go down and
      bring him up. Don’t fuss!”

      “There you go—always so cock-a-hoop. He mayn’t come in at all.”

      “Well, if he doesn’t come in you won’t catch him by standing out
      here in your dressing-gown.”

      Soames rounded the last bend and came in sight of his father’s
      tall figure wrapped in a brown silk quilted gown, stooping over
      the balustrade above. Light fell on his silvery hair and
      whiskers, investing his head with a sort of halo.

      “Here he is!” he heard him say in a voice which sounded injured,
      and his mother’s comfortable answer from the bedroom door:

      “That’s all right. Come in, and I’ll brush your hair.” James
      extended a thin, crooked finger, oddly like the beckoning of a
      skeleton, and passed through the doorway of his bedroom.

      “What is it?” thought Soames. “What has he got hold of now?”

      His father was sitting before the dressing-table sideways to the
      mirror, while Emily slowly passed two silver-backed brushes
      through and through his hair. She would do this several times a
      day, for it had on him something of the effect produced on a cat
      by scratching between its ears.

      “There you are!” he said. “I’ve been waiting.”

      Soames stroked his shoulder, and, taking up a silver button-hook,
      examined the mark on it.

      “Well,” he said, “you’re looking better.”

      James shook his head.

      “I want to say something. Your mother hasn’t heard.” He announced
      Emily’s ignorance of what he hadn’t told her, as if it were a
      grievance.

      “Your father’s been in a great state all the evening. I’m sure I
      don’t know what about.”

      The faint “whisk-whisk” of the brushes continued the soothing of
      her voice.

      “No! you know nothing,” said James. “Soames can tell me.” And,
      fixing his grey eyes, in which there was a look of strain,
      uncomfortable to watch, on his son, he muttered:

      “I’m getting on, Soames. At my age I can’t tell. I might die any
      time. There’ll be a lot of money. There’s Rachel and Cicely got
      no children; and Val’s out there—that chap his father will get
      hold of all he can. And somebody’ll pick up Imogen, I shouldn’t
      wonder.”

      Soames listened vaguely—he had heard all this before.
      Whish-whish! went the brushes.

      “If that’s all!” said Emily.

      “All!” cried James; “it’s nothing. I’m coming to that.” And again
      his eyes strained pitifully at Soames.

      “It’s you, my boy,” he said suddenly; “you ought to get a
      divorce.”

      That word, from those of all lips, was almost too much for
      Soames’ composure. His eyes reconcentrated themselves quickly on
      the buttonhook, and as if in apology James hurried on:

      “I don’t know what’s become of her—they say she’s abroad. Your
      Uncle Swithin used to admire her—he was a funny fellow.” (So he
      always alluded to his dead twin—“The Stout and the Lean of it,”
      they had been called.) “She wouldn’t be alone, I should say.” And
      with that summing-up of the effect of beauty on human nature, he
      was silent, watching his son with eyes doubting as a bird’s.
      Soames, too, was silent. Whish-whish went the brushes.

      “Come, James! Soames knows best. It’s his business.”

      “Ah!” said James, and the word came from deep down; “but there’s
      all my money, and there’s his—who’s it to go to? And when he dies
      the name goes out.”

      Soames replaced the button-hook on the lace and pink silk of the
      dressing-table coverlet.

      “The name?” said Emily, “there are all the other Forsytes.”

      “As if that helped me,” muttered James. “I shall be in my grave,
      and there’ll be nobody, unless he marries again.”

      “You’re quite right,” said Soames quietly; “I’m getting a
      divorce.”

      James’ eyes almost started from his head.

      “What?” he cried. “There! nobody tells me anything.”

      “Well,” said Emily, “who would have imagined you wanted it? My
      dear boy, that _is_ a surprise, after all these years.”

      “It’ll be a scandal,” muttered James, as if to himself; “but I
      can’t help that. Don’t brush so hard. When’ll it come on?”

      “Before the Long Vacation; it’s not defended.”

      James’ lips moved in secret calculation. “I shan’t live to see my
      grandson,” he muttered.

      Emily ceased brushing. “Of course you will, James. Soames will be
      as quick as he can.”

      There was a long silence, till James reached out his arm.

      “Here! let’s have the eau-de-Cologne,” and, putting it to his
      nose, he moved his forehead in the direction of his son. Soames
      bent over and kissed that brow just where the hair began. A
      relaxing quiver passed over James’ face, as though the wheels of
      anxiety within were running down.

      “I’ll get to bed,” he said; “I shan’t want to see the papers when
      that comes. They’re a morbid lot; I can’t pay attention to them,
      I’m too old.”

      Queerly affected, Soames went to the door; he heard his father
      say:

      “Here, I’m tired. I’ll say a prayer in bed.”

      And his mother answering

      “That’s right, James; it’ll be ever so much more comfy.”




      CHAPTER IX OUT OF THE WEB


      On Forsyte ’Change the announcement of Jolly’s death, among a
      batch of troopers, caused mixed sensation. Strange to read that
      Jolyon Forsyte (fifth of the name in direct descent) had died of
      disease in the service of his country, and not be able to feel it
      personally. It revived the old grudge against his father for
      having estranged himself. For such was still the prestige of old
      Jolyon that the other Forsytes could never quite feel, as might
      have been expected, that it was they who had cut off his
      descendants for irregularity. The news increased, of course, the
      interest and anxiety about Val; but then Val’s name was Dartie,
      and even if he were killed in battle or got the Victoria Cross,
      it would not be at all the same as if his name were Forsyte. Not
      even casualty or glory to the Haymans would be really
      satisfactory. Family pride felt defrauded.

      How the rumour arose, then, that “something very dreadful, my
      dear,” was pending, no one, least of all Soames, could tell,
      secret as he kept everything. Possibly some eye had seen “Forsyte
      _v._ Forsyte and Forsyte,” in the cause list; and had added it to
      “Irene in Paris with a fair beard.” Possibly some wall at Park
      Lane had ears. The fact remained that it _was_ known—whispered
      among the old, discussed among the young—that family pride must
      soon receive a blow.

      Soames, paying one of his Sunday visits to Timothy’s—paying it
      with the feeling that after the suit came on he would be paying
      no more—felt knowledge in the air as he came in. Nobody, of
      course, dared speak of it before him, but each of the four other
      Forsytes present held their breath, aware that nothing could
      prevent Aunt Juley from making them all uncomfortable. She looked
      so piteously at Soames, she checked herself on the point of
      speech so often, that Aunt Hester excused herself and said she
      must go and bathe Timothy’s eye—he had a sty coming. Soames,
      impassive, slightly supercilious, did not stay long. He went out
      with a curse stifled behind his pale, just smiling lips.

      Fortunately for the peace of his mind, cruelly tortured by the
      coming scandal, he was kept busy day and night with plans for his
      retirement—for he had come to that grim conclusion. To go on
      seeing all those people who had known him as a “long-headed
      chap,” an astute adviser—after _that_—no! The fastidiousness and
      pride which was so strangely, so inextricably blended in him with
      possessive obtuseness, revolted against the thought. He would
      retire, live privately, go on buying pictures, make a great name
      as a collector—after all, his heart was more in that than it had
      ever been in Law. In pursuance of this now fixed resolve, he had
      to get ready to amalgamate his business with another firm without
      letting people know, for that would excite curiosity and make
      humiliation cast its shadow before. He had pitched on the firm of
      Cuthcott, Holliday and Kingson, two of whom were dead. The full
      name after the amalgamation would therefore be Cuthcott,
      Holliday, Kingson, Forsyte, Bustard and Forsyte. But after debate
      as to which of the dead still had any influence with the living,
      it was decided to reduce the title to Cuthcott, Kingson and
      Forsyte, of whom Kingson would be the active and Soames the
      sleeping partner. For leaving his name, prestige, and clients
      behind him, Soames would receive considerable value.

      One night, as befitted a man who had arrived at so important a
      stage of his career, he made a calculation of what he was worth,
      and after writing off liberally for depreciation by the war,
      found his value to be some hundred and thirty thousand pounds. At
      his father’s death, which could not, alas, be delayed much
      longer, he must come into at least another fifty thousand, and
      his yearly expenditure at present just reached two. Standing
      among his pictures, he saw before him a future full of bargains
      earned by the trained faculty of knowing better than other
      people. Selling what was about to decline, keeping what was still
      going up, and exercising judicious insight into future taste, he
      would make a unique collection, which at his death would pass to
      the nation under the title “Forsyte Bequest.”

      If the divorce went through, he had determined on his line with
      Madame Lamotte. She had, he knew, but one real ambition—to live
      on her “_rentes_” in Paris near her grandchildren. He would buy
      the goodwill of the Restaurant Bretagne at a fancy price. Madame
      would live like a Queen-Mother in Paris on the interest, invested
      as she would know how. (Incidentally Soames meant to put a
      capable manager in her place, and make the restaurant pay good
      interest on his money. There were great possibilities in Soho.)
      On Annette he would promise to settle fifteen thousand pounds
      (whether designedly or not), precisely the sum old Jolyon had
      settled on “that woman.”

      A letter from Jolyon’s solicitor to his own had disclosed the
      fact that “those two” were in Italy. And an opportunity had been
      duly given for noting that they had first stayed at an hotel in
      London. The matter was clear as daylight, and would be disposed
      of in half an hour or so; but during that half-hour he, Soames,
      would go down to hell; and after that half-hour all bearers of
      the Forsyte name would feel the bloom was off the rose. He had no
      illusions like Shakespeare that roses by any other name would
      smell as sweet. The name was a possession, a concrete, unstained
      piece of property, the value of which would be reduced some
      twenty per cent. at least. Unless it were Roger, who had once
      refused to stand for Parliament, and—oh, irony!—Jolyon, hung on
      the line, there had never been a distinguished Forsyte. But that
      very lack of distinction was the name’s greatest asset. It was a
      private name, intensely individual, and his own property; it had
      never been exploited for good or evil by intrusive report. He and
      each member of his family owned it wholly, sanely, secretly,
      without any more interference from the public than had been
      necessitated by their births, their marriages, their deaths. And
      during these weeks of waiting and preparing to drop the Law, he
      conceived for that Law a bitter distaste, so deeply did he resent
      its coming violation of his name, forced on him by the need he
      felt to perpetuate that name in a lawful manner. The monstrous
      injustice of the whole thing excited in him a perpetual
      suppressed fury. He had asked no better than to live in spotless
      domesticity, and now he must go into the witness box, after all
      these futile, barren years, and proclaim his failure to keep his
      wife—incur the pity, the amusement, the contempt of his kind. It
      was all upside down. She and that fellow ought to be the
      sufferers, and they—were in Italy! In these weeks the Law he had
      served so faithfully, looked on so reverently as the guardian of
      all property, seemed to him quite pitiful. What could be more
      insane than to tell a man that he owned his wife, and punish him
      when someone unlawfully took her away from him? Did the Law not
      know that a man’s name was to him the apple of his eye, that it
      was far harder to be regarded as cuckold than as seducer? He
      actually envied Jolyon the reputation of succeeding where he,
      Soames, had failed. The question of damages worried him, too. He
      wanted to make that fellow suffer, but he remembered his cousin’s
      words, “I shall be very happy,” with the uneasy feeling that to
      claim damages would make not Jolyon but himself suffer; he felt
      uncannily that Jolyon would rather like to pay them—the chap was
      so loose. Besides, to claim damages was not the thing to do. The
      claim, indeed, had been made almost mechanically; and as the hour
      drew near Soames saw in it just another dodge of this insensitive
      and topsy-turvy Law to make him ridiculous; so that people might
      sneer and say: “Oh, yes, he got quite a good price for her!” And
      he gave instructions that his Counsel should state that the money
      would be given to a Home for Fallen Women. He was a long time
      hitting off exactly the right charity; but, having pitched on it,
      he used to wake up in the night and think: “It won’t do, too
      lurid; it’ll draw attention. Something quieter—better taste.” He
      did not care for dogs, or he would have named them; and it was in
      desperation at last—for his knowledge of charities was
      limited—that he decided on the blind. That could not be
      inappropriate, and it would make the Jury assess the damages
      high.

      A good many suits were dropping out of the list, which happened
      to be exceptionally thin that summer, so that his case would be
      reached before August. As the day grew nearer, Winifred was his
      only comfort. She showed the fellow-feeling of one who had been
      through the mill, and was the “femme-sole” in whom he confided,
      well knowing that she would not let Dartie into her confidence.
      That ruffian would be only too rejoiced! At the end of July, on
      the afternoon before the case, he went in to see her. They had
      not yet been able to leave town, because Dartie had already spent
      their summer holiday, and Winifred dared not go to her father for
      more money while he was waiting not to be told anything about
      this affair of Soames.

      Soames found her with a letter in her hand.

      “That from Val,” he asked gloomily. “What does he say?”

      “He says he’s married,” said Winifred.

      “Whom to, for Goodness’ sake?”

      Winifred looked up at him.

      “To Holly Forsyte, Jolyon’s daughter.”

      “What?”

      “He got leave and did it. I didn’t even know he knew her.
      Awkward, isn’t it?”

      Soames uttered a short laugh at that characteristic minimisation.

      “Awkward! Well, I don’t suppose they’ll hear about this till they
      come back. They’d better stay out there. That fellow will give
      her money.”

      “But I want Val back,” said Winifred almost piteously; “I miss
      him, he helps me to get on.”

      “I know,” murmured Soames. “How’s Dartie behaving now?”

      “It might be worse; but it’s always money. Would you like me to
      come down to the Court to-morrow, Soames?”

      Soames stretched out his hand for hers. The gesture so betrayed
      the loneliness in him that she pressed it between her two.

      “Never mind, old boy. You’ll feel ever so much better when it’s
      all over.”

      “I don’t know what I’ve done,” said Soames huskily; “I never
      have. It’s all upside down. I was fond of her; I’ve always been.”

      Winifred saw a drop of blood ooze out of his lip, and the sight
      stirred her profoundly.

      “Of course,” she said, “it’s been _too_ bad of her all along! But
      what shall I do about this marriage of Val’s, Soames? I don’t
      know how to write to him, with this coming on. You’ve seen that
      child. Is she pretty?”

      “Yes, she’s pretty,” said Soames. “Dark—lady-like enough.”

      “That doesn’t sound so bad,” thought Winifred. “Jolyon had
      style.”

      “It is a coil,” she said. “What will father say?

      “Mustn’t be told,” said Soames. “The war’ll soon be over now,
      you’d better let Val take to farming out there.”

      It was tantamount to saying that his nephew was lost.

      “I haven’t told Monty,” Winifred murmured desolately.

      The case was reached before noon next day, and was over in little
      more than half an hour. Soames—pale, spruce, sad-eyed in the
      witness-box—had suffered so much beforehand that he took it all
      like one dead. The moment the decree nisi was pronounced he left
      the Courts of Justice.

      Four hours until he became public property! “Solicitor’s divorce
      suit!” A surly, dogged anger replaced that dead feeling within
      him. “Damn them all!” he thought; “I won’t run away. I’ll act as
      if nothing had happened.” And in the sweltering heat of Fleet
      Street and Ludgate Hill he walked all the way to his City Club,
      lunched, and went back to his office. He worked there stolidly
      throughout the afternoon.

      On his way out he saw that his clerks knew, and answered their
      involuntary glances with a look so sardonic that they were
      immediately withdrawn. In front of St. Paul’s, he stopped to buy
      the most gentlemanly of the evening papers. Yes! there he was!
      “Well-known solicitor’s divorce. Cousin co-respondent. Damages
      given to the blind”—so, they had got that in! At every other
      face, he thought: “I wonder if you know!” And suddenly he felt
      queer, as if something were racing round in his head.

      What was this? He was letting it get hold of him! He mustn’t! He
      would be ill. He mustn’t think! He would get down to the river
      and row about, and fish. “I’m not going to be laid up,” he
      thought.

      It flashed across him that he had something of importance to do
      before he went out of town. Madame Lamotte! He must explain the
      Law. Another six months before he was really free! Only he did
      not want to see Annette! And he passed his hand over the top of
      his head—it was very hot.

      He branched off through Covent Garden. On this sultry day of late
      July the garbage-tainted air of the old market offended him, and
      Soho seemed more than ever the disenchanted home of
      rapscallionism. Alone, the Restaurant Bretagne, neat, daintily
      painted, with its blue tubs and the dwarf trees therein, retained
      an aloof and Frenchified self-respect. It was the slack hour, and
      pale trim waitresses were preparing the little tables for dinner.
      Soames went through into the private part. To his discomfiture
      Annette answered his knock. She, too, looked pale and dragged
      down by the heat.

      “You are quite a stranger,” she said languidly.

      Soames smiled.

      “I haven’t wished to be; I’ve been busy.”

      “Where’s your mother, Annette? I’ve got some news for her.”

      “Mother is not in.”

      It seemed to Soames that she looked at him in a queer way. What
      did she know? How much had her mother told her? The worry of
      trying to make that out gave him an alarming feeling in the head.
      He gripped the edge of the table, and dizzily saw Annette come
      forward, her eyes clear with surprise. He shut his own and said:

      “It’s all right. I’ve had a touch of the sun, I think.” The sun!
      What he had was a touch of darkness! Annette’s voice, French and
      composed, said:

      “Sit down, it will pass, then.” Her hand pressed his shoulder,
      and Soames sank into a chair. When the dark feeling dispersed,
      and he opened his eyes, she was looking down at him. What an
      inscrutable and odd expression for a girl of twenty!

      “Do you feel better?”

      “It’s nothing,” said Soames. Instinct told him that to be feeble
      before her was not helping him—age was enough handicap without
      that. Will-power was his fortune with Annette, he had lost ground
      these latter months from indecision—he could not afford to lose
      any more. He got up, and said:

      “I’ll write to your mother. I’m going down to my river house for
      a long holiday. I want you both to come there presently and stay.
      It’s just at its best. You will, won’t you?”

      “It will be veree nice.” A pretty little roll of that “r” but no
      enthusiasm. And rather sadly he added:

      “You’re feeling the heat, too, aren’t you, Annette? It’ll do you
      good to be on the river. Good-night.” Annette swayed forward.
      There was a sort of compunction in the movement.

      “Are you fit to go? Shall I give you some coffee?”

      “No,” said Soames firmly. “Give me your hand.”

      She held out her hand, and Soames raised it to his lips. When he
      looked up, her face wore again that strange expression. “I can’t
      tell,” he thought, as he went out; “but I mustn’t think—I mustn’t
      worry.”

      But worry he did, walking toward Pall Mall. English, not of her
      religion, middle-aged, scarred as it were by domestic tragedy,
      what had he to give her? Only wealth, social position, leisure,
      admiration! It was much, but was it enough for a beautiful girl
      of twenty? He felt so ignorant about Annette. He had, too, a
      curious fear of the French nature of her mother and herself. They
      knew so well what they wanted. They were almost Forsytes. They
      would never grasp a shadow and miss a substance.

      The tremendous effort it was to write a simple note to Madame
      Lamotte when he reached his Club warned him still further that he
      was at the end of his tether.

      “MY DEAR MADAME (he said),
          “You will see by the enclosed newspaper cutting that I
          obtained my decree of divorce to-day. By the English Law I
          shall not, however, be free to marry again till the decree is
          confirmed six months hence. In the meanwhile I have the honor
          to ask to be considered a formal suitor for the hand of your
          daughter. I shall write again in a few days and beg you both
          to come and stay at my river house.

      “I am, dear Madame,
      “Sincerely yours,
      “SOAMES FORSYTE.”

      Having sealed and posted this letter, he went into the
      dining-room. Three mouthfuls of soup convinced him that he could
      not eat; and, causing a cab to be summoned, he drove to
      Paddington Station and took the first train to Reading. He
      reached his house just as the sun went down, and wandered out on
      to the lawn. The air was drenched with the scent of pinks and
      picotees in his flower-borders. A stealing coolness came off the
      river.

      Rest—peace! Let a poor fellow rest! Let not worry and shame and
      anger chase like evil night-birds in his head! Like those doves
      perched half-sleeping on their dovecot, like the furry creatures
      in the woods on the far side, and the simple folk in their
      cottages, like the trees and the river itself, whitening fast in
      twilight, like the darkening cornflower-blue sky where stars were
      coming up—let him cease _from himself_, and rest!




      CHAPTER X PASSING OF AN AGE


      The marriage of Soames with Annette took place in Paris on the
      last day of January, 1901, with such privacy that not even Emily
      was told until it was accomplished.

      The day after the wedding he brought her to one of those quiet
      hotels in London where greater expense can be incurred for less
      result than anywhere else under heaven. Her beauty in the best
      Parisian frocks was giving him more satisfaction than if he had
      collected a perfect bit of china, or a jewel of a picture; he
      looked forward to the moment when he would exhibit her in Park
      Lane, in Green Street, and at Timothy’s.

      If some one had asked him in those days, “In confidence—are you
      in love with this girl?” he would have replied: “In love? What is
      love? If you mean do I feel to her as I did towards Irene in
      those old days when I first met her and she would not have me;
      when I sighed and starved after her and couldn’t rest a minute
      until she yielded—no! If you mean do I admire her youth and
      prettiness, do my senses ache a little when I see her moving
      about—yes! Do I think she will keep me straight, make me a
      creditable wife and a good mother for my children?—again, yes!”

      “What more do I need? and what more do three-quarters of the
      women who are married get from the men who marry them?” And if
      the enquirer had pursued his query, “And do you think it was fair
      to have tempted this girl to give herself to you for life unless
      you have really touched her heart?” he would have answered: “The
      French see these things differently from us. They look at
      marriage from the point of view of establishments and children;
      and, from my own experience, I am not at all sure that theirs is
      not the sensible view. I shall not expect this time more than I
      can get, or she can give. Years hence I shouldn’t be surprised if
      I have trouble with her; but I shall be getting old, I shall have
      children by then. I shall shut my eyes. I have had my great
      passion; hers is perhaps to come—I don’t suppose it will be for
      me. I offer her a great deal, and I don’t expect much in return,
      except children, or at least a son. But one thing I am sure
      of—she has very good sense!”

      And if, insatiate, the enquirer had gone on, “You do not look,
      then, for spiritual union in this marriage?” Soames would have
      lifted his sideway smile, and rejoined: “That’s as it may be. If
      I get satisfaction for my senses, perpetuation of myself; good
      taste and good humour in the house; it is all I can expect at my
      age. I am not likely to be going out of my way towards any
      far-fetched sentimentalism.” Whereon, the enquirer must in good
      taste have ceased enquiry.

      The Queen was dead, and the air of the greatest city upon earth
      grey with unshed tears. Fur-coated and top-hatted, with Annette
      beside him in dark furs, Soames crossed Park Lane on the morning
      of the funeral procession, to the rails in Hyde Park. Little
      moved though he ever was by public matters, this event, supremely
      symbolical, this summing-up of a long rich period, impressed his
      fancy. In ’37, when she came to the throne, “Superior Dosset” was
      still building houses to make London hideous; and James, a
      stripling of twenty-six, just laying the foundations of his
      practice in the Law. Coaches still ran; men wore stocks, shaved
      their upper lips, ate oysters out of barrels; “tigers” swung
      behind cabriolets; women said, “La!” and owned no property; there
      were manners in the land, and pigsties for the poor; unhappy
      devils were hanged for little crimes, and Dickens had but just
      begun to write. Well-nigh two generations had slipped by—of
      steamboats, railways, telegraphs, bicycles, electric light,
      telephones, and now these motorcars—of such accumulated wealth,
      that eight per cent. had become three, and Forsytes were numbered
      by the thousand! Morals had changed, manners had changed, men had
      become monkeys twice-removed, God had become Mammon—Mammon so
      respectable as to deceive himself: Sixty-four years that favoured
      property, and had made the upper middle class; buttressed,
      chiselled, polished it, till it was almost indistinguishable in
      manners, morals, speech, appearance, habit, and soul from the
      nobility. An epoch which had gilded individual liberty so that if
      a man had money, he was free in law and fact, and if he had not
      money he was free in law and not in fact. An era which had
      canonised hypocrisy, so that to seem to be respectable was to be.
      A great Age, whose transmuting influence nothing had escaped save
      the nature of man and the nature of the Universe.

      And to witness the passing of this Age, London—its pet and
      fancy—was pouring forth her citizens through every gate into Hyde
      Park, hub of Victorianism, happy hunting-ground of Forsytes.
      Under the grey heavens, whose drizzle just kept off, the dark
      concourse gathered to see the show. The “good old” Queen, full of
      years and virtue, had emerged from her seclusion for the last
      time to make a London holiday. From Houndsditch, Acton, Ealing,
      Hampstead, Islington, and Bethnal Green; from Hackney, Hornsey,
      Leytonstone, Battersea, and Fulham; and from those green pastures
      where Forsytes flourish—Mayfair and Kensington, St. James’ and
      Belgravia, Bayswater and Chelsea and the Regent’s Park, the
      people swarmed down on to the roads where death would presently
      pass with dusky pomp and pageantry. Never again would a Queen
      reign so long, or people have a chance to see so much history
      buried for their money. A pity the war dragged on, and that the
      Wreath of Victory could not be laid upon her coffin! All else
      would be there to follow and commemorate—soldiers, sailors,
      foreign princes, half-masted bunting, tolling bells, and above
      all the surging, great, dark-coated crowd, with perhaps a simple
      sadness here and there deep in hearts beneath black clothes put
      on by regulation. After all, more than a Queen was going to her
      rest, a woman who had braved sorrow, lived well and wisely
      according to her lights.

      Out in the crowd against the railings, with his arm hooked in
      Annette’s, Soames waited. Yes! the Age was passing! What with
      this Trade Unionism, and Labour fellows in the House of Commons,
      with continental fiction, and something in the general feel of
      everything, not to be expressed in words, things were very
      different; he recalled the crowd on Mafeking night, and George
      Forsyte saying: “They’re all socialists, they want our goods.”
      Like James, Soames didn’t know, he couldn’t tell—with Edward on
      the throne! Things would never be as safe again as under good old
      Viccy! Convulsively he pressed his young wife’s arm. There, at
      any rate, was something substantially his own, domestically
      certain again at last; something which made property worth
      while—a real thing once more. Pressed close against her and
      trying to ward others off, Soames was content. The crowd swayed
      round them, ate sandwiches and dropped crumbs; boys who had
      climbed the plane-trees chattered above like monkeys, threw twigs
      and orange-peel. It was past time; they should be coming soon!
      And, suddenly, a little behind them to the left, he saw a tallish
      man with a soft hat and short grizzling beard, and a tallish
      woman in a little round fur cap and veil. Jolyon and Irene
      talking, smiling at each other, close together like Annette and
      himself! They had not seen him; and stealthily, with a very queer
      feeling in his heart, Soames watched those two. They looked
      happy! What had they come here for—inherently illicit creatures,
      rebels from the Victorian ideal? What business had they in this
      crowd? Each of them twice exiled by morality—making a boast, as
      it were, of love and laxity! He watched them fascinated;
      admitting grudgingly even with his arm thrust through Annette’s
      that—that she—Irene—No! he would _not_ admit it; and he turned
      his eyes away. He would _not_ see them, and let the old
      bitterness, the old longing rise up within him! And then Annette
      turned to him and said: “Those two people, Soames; they know you,
      I am sure. Who are they?”

      Soames nosed sideways.

      “What people?”

      “There, you see them; just turning away. They know you.”

      “No,” Soames answered; “a mistake, my dear.”

      “A lovely face! And how she walk! _Elle est très distinguée!_”

      Soames looked then. Into his life, out of his life she had walked
      like that swaying and erect, remote, unseizable; ever eluding the
      contact of his soul! He turned abruptly from that receding vision
      of the past.

      “You’d better attend,” he said, “they’re coming now!”

      But while he stood, grasping her arm, seemingly intent on the
      head of the procession, he was quivering with the sense of always
      missing something, with instinctive regret that he had not got
      them both.

      Slow came the music and the march, till, in silence, the long
      line wound in through the Park gate. He heard Annette whisper,
      “How sad it is and beautiful!” felt the clutch of her hand as she
      stood up on tiptoe; and the crowd’s emotion gripped him. There it
      was—the bier of the Queen, coffin of the Age slow passing! And as
      it went by there came a murmuring groan from all the long line of
      those who watched, a sound such as Soames had never heard, so
      unconscious, primitive, deep and wild, that neither he nor any
      knew whether they had joined in uttering it. Strange sound,
      indeed! Tribute of an Age to its own death.... Ah! Ah!... The
      hold on life had slipped. That which had seemed eternal was gone!
      The Queen—God bless her!

      It moved on with the bier, that travelling groan, as a fire moves
      on over grass in a thin line; it kept step, and marched alongside
      down the dense crowds mile after mile. It was a human sound, and
      yet inhuman, pushed out by animal subconsciousness, by intimate
      knowledge of universal death and change. None of us—none of us
      can hold on for ever!

      It left silence for a little—a very little time, till tongues
      began, eager to retrieve interest in the show. Soames lingered
      just long enough to gratify Annette, then took her out of the
      Park to lunch at his father’s in Park Lane....

      James had spent the morning gazing out of his bedroom window. The
      last show he would see, last of so many! So she was gone! Well,
      she was getting an old woman. Swithin and he had seen her
      crowned—slim slip of a girl, not so old as Imogen! She had got
      very stout of late. Jolyon and he had seen her married to that
      German chap, her husband—he had turned out all right before he
      died, and left her with that son of his. And he remembered the
      many evenings he and his brothers and their cronies had wagged
      their heads over their wine and walnuts and that fellow in his
      salad days. And now he had come to the throne. They said he had
      steadied down—he didn’t know—couldn’t tell! He’d make the money
      fly still, he shouldn’t wonder. What a lot of people out there!
      It didn’t seem so very long since he and Swithin stood in the
      crowd outside Westminster Abbey when she was crowned, and Swithin
      had taken him to Cremorne afterwards—racketty chap, Swithin; no,
      it didn’t seem much longer ago than Jubilee Year, when he had
      joined with Roger in renting a balcony in Piccadilly.

      Jolyon, Swithin, Roger all gone, and he would be ninety in
      August! And there was Soames married again to a French girl. The
      French were a queer lot, but they made good mothers, he had
      heard. Things changed! They said this German Emperor was here for
      the funeral, his telegram to old Kruger had been in shocking
      taste. He should not be surprised if that chap made trouble some
      day. Change! H’m! Well, they must look after themselves when he
      was gone: he didn’t know where he’d be! And now Emily had asked
      Dartie to lunch, with Winifred and Imogen, to meet Soames’
      wife—she was always doing something. And there was Irene living
      with that fellow Jolyon, they said. He’d marry her now, he
      supposed.

      “My brother Jolyon,” he thought, “what would he have said to it
      all?” And somehow the utter impossibility of knowing what his
      elder brother, once so looked up to, would have said, so worried
      James that he got up from his chair by the window, and began
      slowly, feebly to pace the room.

      “She was a pretty thing, too,” he thought; “I was fond of her.
      Perhaps Soames didn’t suit her—I don’t know—I can’t tell. We
      never had any trouble with _our_ wives.” Women had changed
      everything had changed! And now the Queen was dead—well, there it
      was! A movement in the crowd brought him to a standstill at the
      window, his nose touching the pane and whitening from the chill
      of it. They had got her as far as Hyde Park Corner—they were
      passing now! Why didn’t Emily come up here where she could see,
      instead of fussing about lunch. He missed her at that
      moment—missed her! Through the bare branches of the plane-trees
      he could just see the procession, could see the hats coming off
      the people’s heads—a lot of them would catch colds, he shouldn’t
      wonder! A voice behind him said:

      “You’ve got a capital view here, James!”

      “_There_ you are!” muttered James; “why didn’t you come before?
      You might have missed it!”

      And he was silent, staring with all his might.

      “What’s the noise?” he asked suddenly.

      “There’s no noise,” returned Emily; “what are you thinking
      of?—they wouldn’t cheer.”

      “I can hear it.”

      “Nonsense, James!”

      No sound came through those double panes; what James heard was
      the groaning in his own heart at sight of his Age passing.

      “Don’t you ever tell me where I’m buried,” he said suddenly. “I
      shan’t want to know.” And he turned from the window. There she
      went, the old Queen; she’d had a lot of anxiety—she’d be glad to
      be out of it, he should think!

      Emily took up the hair-brushes.

      “There’ll be just time to brush your head,” she said, “before
      they come. You must look your best, James.”

      “Ah!” muttered James; “they say she’s pretty.”

      The meeting with his new daughter-in-law took place in the
      dining-room. James was seated by the fire when she was brought
      in. He placed, his hands on the arms of the chair and slowly
      raised himself. Stooping and immaculate in his frock-coat, thin
      as a line in Euclid, he received Annette’s hand in his; and the
      anxious eyes of his furrowed face, which had lost its colour now,
      doubted above her. A little warmth came into them and into his
      cheeks, refracted from her bloom.

      “How are you?” he said. “You’ve been to see the Queen, I suppose?
      Did you have a good crossing?”

      In this way he greeted her from whom he hoped for a grandson of
      his name.

      Gazing at him, so old, thin, white, and spotless, Annette
      murmured something in French which James did not understand.

      “Yes, yes,” he said, “you want your lunch, I expect. Soames, ring
      the bell; we won’t wait for that chap Dartie.” But just then they
      arrived. Dartie had refused to go out of his way to see “the old
      girl.” With an early cocktail beside him, he had taken a “squint”
      from the smoking-room of the Iseeum, so that Winifred and Imogen
      had been obliged to come back from the Park to fetch him thence.
      His brown eyes rested on Annette with a stare of almost startled
      satisfaction. The second beauty that fellow Soames had picked up!
      What women could see in him! Well, she would play him the same
      trick as the other, no doubt; but in the meantime he was a lucky
      devil! And he brushed up his moustache, having in nine months of
      Green Street domesticity regained almost all his flesh and his
      assurance. Despite the comfortable efforts of Emily, Winifred’s
      composure, Imogen’s enquiring friendliness, Dartie’s showing-off,
      and James’ solicitude about her food, it was not, Soames felt, a
      successful lunch for his bride. He took her away very soon.

