Harry. 

“Dad is. He helped Fred and George transform the 
ghoul. Mum ... well, you’ve seen what she’s like. She 
won’t accept we’re going till we’ve gone.” 

There was silence in the room, broken only by gentle 
thuds as Hermione continued to throw books onto 
one pile or the other. Ron sat watching her, and Harry 
looked from one to the other, unable to say anything. 
The measures they had taken to protect their families 
made him realize, more than anything else could have 
done, that they really were going to come with him 
and that they knew exactly how dangerous that would 
be. He wanted to tell them what that meant to him, 
but he simply could not find words important enough. 



Page | 110 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Through the silence came the muffled sounds of Mrs. 
Weasley shouting from four floors below. 

“Ginny’s probably left a speck of dust on a poxy 
napkin ring,” said Ron. “I dunno why the Delacours 
have got to come two days before the wedding.” 

“Fleur’s sister’s a bridesmaid, she needs to be here for 
the rehearsal, and she’s too young to come on her 
own,” said Hermione, as she pored indecisively over 
Break with a Banshee. 

“Well, guests aren’t going to help Mum’s stress levels,” 
said Ron. 

“What we really need to decide,” said Hermione, 
tossing Defensive Magical Theory into the bin without 
a second glance and picking up An Appraisal of 
Magical Education in Europe, “is where we’re going 
after we leave here. I know you said you wanted to go 
to Godric’s Hollow first, Harry, and I understand why, 
but ... well ... shouldn’t we make the Horcruxes our 
priority?” 

“If we knew where any of the Horcruxes were, I’d 
agree with you,” said Harry, who did not believe that 
Hermione really understood his desire to return to 
Godric’s Hollow. His parents’ graves were only part of 
the attraction: He had a strong, though inexplicable, 
feeling that the place held answers for him. Perhaps it 
was simply because it was there that he had survived 
Voldemort’s Killing Curse; now that he was facing the 
challenge of repeating the feat, Harry was drawn to 
the place where it had happened, wanting to 
understand. 

“Don’t you think there’s a possibility that Voldemort’s 
keeping a watch on Godric’s Hollow?” Hermione 
asked. “He might expect you to go back and visit your 

Page | 111 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




parents’ graves once you’re free to go wherever you 
like?” 



This had not occurred to Harry. While he struggled to 
find a counterargument, Ron spoke up, evidently 
following his own train of thought. 

“This R.A.B. person,” he said. “You know, the one who 
stole the real locket?” 

Hermione nodded. 

“He said in his note he was going to destroy it, didn’t 
he?” 

Harry dragged his rucksack toward him and pulled 
out the fake Horcrux in which R.A.B. ’s note was still 
folded. 

“ ‘ I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy 
it as soon as I can,’ ” Harry read out. 

“Well, what if he did finish it off?” said Ron. 

“Or she,” interposed Hermione. 

“Whichever,” said Ron, “it’d be one less for us to do!” 

“Yes, but we’re still going to have to try and trace the 
real locket, aren’t we?” said Hermione, “to find out 
whether or not it’s destroyed.” 

“And once we get hold of it, how do you destroy a 
Horcrux?” asked Ron. 

“Well,” said Hermione, “I’ve been researching that.” 

“How?” asked Harry. “I didn’t think there were any 
books on Horcruxes in the library?” 

Page | 112 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“There weren’t,” said Hermione, who had turned pink. 
“Dumbledore removed them all, but he — he didn’t 
destroy them.” 

Ron sat up straight, wide-eyed. 

“How in the name of Merlin’s pants have you 
managed to get your hands on those Horcrux books?” 

“It — it wasn’t stealing!” said Hermione, looking from 
Harry to Ron with a kind of desperation. “They were 
still library books, even if Dumbledore had taken 
them off the shelves. Anyway, if he really didn’t want 
anyone to get at them, I’m sure he would have made 
it much harder to — ” 

“Get to the point!” said Ron. 

“Well ... it was easy,” said Hermione in a small voice. 

“I just did a Summoning Charm. You know — Accio. 
And — they zoomed out of Dumbledore ’s study 
window right into the girls’ dormitory.” 

“But when did you do this?” Harry asked, regarding 
Hermione with a mixture of admiration and 
incredulity. 

“Just after his — Dumbledore’s — funeral,” said 
Hermione in an even smaller voice. “Right after we 
agreed we’d leave school and go and look for the 
Horcruxes. When I went back upstairs to get my 
things it — it just occurred to me that the more we 
knew about them, the better it would be ... and I was 
alone in there ... so I tried ... and it worked. They flew 
straight in through the open window and I — I packed 
them.” 

She swallowed and then said imploringly, “I can’t 
believe Dumbledore would have been angry, it’s not 

Page | 113 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




as though we’re going to use the information to make 
a Horcrux, is it?” 

“Can you hear us complaining?” said Ron. “Where are 
these books anyway?” 

Hermione rummaged for a moment and then 
extracted from the pile a large volume, bound in faded 
black leather. She looked a little nauseated and held 
it as gingerly as if it were something recently dead. 

“This is the one that gives explicit instructions on how 
to make a Horcrux. Secrets of the Darkest Art — it’s a 
horrible book, really awful, full of evil magic. I wonder 
when Dumbledore removed it from the library. ... If he 
didn’t do it until he was headmaster, I bet Voldemort 
got all the instruction he needed from here.” 

“Why did he have to ask Slughorn how to make a 
Horcrux, then, if he’d already read that?” asked Ron. 

“He only approached Slughorn to find out what would 
happen if you split your soul into seven,” said Harry. 
“Dumbledore was sure Riddle already knew how to 
make a Horcrux by the time he asked Slughorn about 
them. I think you’re right, Hermione, that could easily 
have been where he got the information.” 

“And the more I’ve read about them,” said Hermione, 
“the more horrible they seem, and the less I can 
believe that he actually made six. It warns in this 
book how unstable you make the rest of your soul by 
ripping it, and that’s just by making one Horcrux!” 

Harry remembered what Dumbledore had said about 
Voldemort moving beyond “usual evil.” 

“Isn’t there any way of putting yourself back 
together?” Ron asked. 

Page | 114 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Hermione with a hollow smile, “but it 
would be excruciatingly painful.” 

“Why? How do you do it?” asked Harry. 

“Remorse,” said Hermione. “You’ve got to really feel 
what you’ve done. There’s a footnote. Apparently the 
pain of it can destroy you. I can’t see Voldemort 
attempting it somehow, can you?” 

“No,” said Ron, before Harry could answer. “So does it 
say how to destroy Horcruxes in that book?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione, now turning the fragile pages as 
if examining rotting entrails, “because it warns Dark 
wizards how strong they have to make the 
enchantments on them. From all that I’ve read, what 
Harry did to Riddle’s diary was one of the few really 
foolproof ways of destroying a Horcrux.” 

“What, stabbing it with a basilisk fang?” asked Harry. 

“Oh well, lucky we’ve got such a large supply of 
basilisk fangs, then,” said Ron. “I was wondering 
what we were going to do with them.” 

“It doesn’t have to be a basilisk fang,” said Hermione 
patiently. “It has to be something so destructive that 
the Horcrux can’t repair itself. Basilisk venom only 
has one antidote, and it’s incredibly rare — -□ 

“ — phoenix tears,” said Harry, nodding. 

“Exactly,” said Hermione. “Our problem is that there 
are very few substances as destructive as basilisk 
venom, and they’re all dangerous to carry around 
with you. That’s a problem we’re going to have to 
solve, though, because ripping, smashing, or 



Page | 115 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




crushing a Horcrux won’t do the trick. You’ve got to 
put it beyond magical repair.” 

“But even if we wreck the thing it lives in,” said Ron, 
“why can’t the bit of soul in it just go and live in 
something else?” 

“Because a Horcrux is the complete opposite of a 
human being.” 

Seeing that Harry and Ron looked thoroughly 
confused, Hermione hurried on, “Look, if I picked up 
a sword right now, Ron, and ran you through with it, 

I wouldn’t damage your soul at all.” 

“Which would be a real comfort to me, I’m sure,” said 
Ron. Harry laughed. 

“It should be, actually! But my point is that whatever 
happens to your body, your soul will survive, 
untouched,” said Hermione. “But it’s the other way 
round with a Horcrux. The fragment of soul inside it 
depends on its container, its enchanted body, for 
survival. It can’t exist without it.” 

“That diary sort of died when I stabbed it,” said Harry, 
remembering ink pouring like blood from the 
punctured pages, and the screams of the piece of 
Voldemort’s soul as it vanished. 

“And once the diary was properly destroyed, the bit of 
soul trapped in it could no longer exist. Ginny tried to 
get rid of the diary before you did, flushing it away, 
but obviously it came back good as new.” 

“Hang on,” said Ron, frowning. “The bit of soul in that 
diary was possessing Ginny, wasn’t it? How does that 
work, then?” 



Page | 116 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“While the magical container is still intact, the bit of 
soul inside it can flit in and out of someone if they get 
too close to the object. I don’t mean holding it for too 
long, it’s nothing to do with touching it,” she added 
before Ron could speak. “I mean close emotionally. 
Ginny poured her heart out into that diary, she made 
herself incredibly vulnerable. You’re in trouble if you 
get too fond of or dependent on the Horcrux.” 

“I wonder how Dumbledore destroyed the ring?” said 
Harry. “Why didn’t I ask him? I never really ...” 

His voice tailed away: He was thinking of all the 
things he should have asked Dumbledore, and of 
how, since the headmaster had died, it seemed to 
Harry that he had wasted so many opportunities 
when Dumbledore had been alive, to find out more ... 
to find out everything. . . . 

The silence was shattered as the bedroom door flew 
open with a wall-shaking crash. Hermione shrieked 
and dropped Secrets of the Darkest Art; Crookshanks 
streaked under the bed, hissing indignantly; Ron 
jumped off the bed, skidded on a discarded Chocolate 
Frog wrapper, and smacked his head on the opposite 
wall; and Harry instinctively dived for his wand before 
realizing that he was looking up at Mrs. Weasley, 
whose hair was disheveled and whose face was 
contorted with rage. 

“I’m so sorry to break up this cozy little gathering,” 
she said, her voice trembling. “I’m sure you all need 
your rest . . . but there are wedding presents stacked 
in my room that need sorting out and I was under the 
impression that you had agreed to help.” 

“Oh yes,” said Hermione, looking terrified as she leapt 
to her feet, sending books flying in every direction, 

“we will ... we’re sorry ...” 

Page | 117 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




With an anguished look at Harry and Ron, Hermione 
hurried out of the room after Mrs. Weasley. 

“It’s like being a house-elf,” complained Ron in an 
undertone, still massaging his head as he and Harry 
followed. “Except without the job satisfaction. The 
sooner this wedding’s over, the happier I’ll be.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “then we’ll have nothing to do 
except find Horcruxes. ... It’ll be like a holiday, won’t 
it?” 



Ron started to laugh, but at the sight of the enormous 
pile of wedding presents waiting for them in Mrs. 
Weasley’s room, stopped quite abruptly. 

The Delacours arrived the following morning at eleven 
o’clock. Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny were feeling 
quite resentful toward Fleur’s family by this time, and 
it was with ill grace that Ron stumped back upstairs 
to put on matching socks, and Harry attempted to 
flatten his hair. Once they had all been deemed smart 
enough, they trooped out into the sunny backyard to 
await the visitors. 

Harry had never seen the place looking so tidy. The 
rusty cauldrons and old Wellington boots that usually 
littered the steps by the back door were gone, 
replaced by two new Flutterby bushes standing either 
side of the door in large pots; though there was no 
breeze, the leaves waved lazily, giving an attractive 
rippling effect. The chickens had been shut away, the 
yard had been swept, and the nearby garden had 
been pruned, plucked, and generally spruced up, 
although Harry, who liked it in its overgrown state, 
thought that it looked rather forlorn without its usual 
contingent of capering gnomes. 



Page | 118 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




He had lost track of how many security enchantments 
had been placed upon the Burrow by both the Order 
and the Ministry; all he knew was that it was no 
longer possible for anybody to travel by magic directly 
into the place. Mr. Weasley had therefore gone to 
meet the Delacours on top of a nearby hill, where they 
were to arrive by Portkey. The first sound of their 
approach was an unusually high-pitched laugh, 
which turned out to be coming from Mr. Weasley, who 
appeared at the gate moments later, laden with 
luggage and leading a beautiful blonde woman in 
long, leaf-green robes, who could only be Fleur’s 
mother. 

“Maman!” cried Fleur, rushing forward to embrace 
her. “Papa!” 

Monsieur Delacour was nowhere near as attractive as 
his wife; he was a head shorter and extremely plump, 
with a little, pointed black beard. However, he looked 
good-natured. Bouncing toward Mrs. Weasley on 
high-heeled boots, he kissed her twice on each cheek, 
leaving her flustered. 

“You ’ave been to much trouble,” he said in a deep 
voice. “Fleur tells us you ’ave been working very ’ard.” 

“Oh, it’s been nothing, nothing!” trilled Mrs. Weasley. 
“No trouble at all!” 

Ron relieved his feelings by aiming a kick at a gnome 
who was peering out from behind one of the new 
Flutterby bushes. 

“Dear lady!” said Monsieur Delacour, still holding 
Mrs. Weasley’s hand between his own two plump 
ones and beaming. “We are most honored at the 
approaching union of our two families! Let me present 
my wife, Apolline.” 

Page | 119 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Madame Delacour glided forward and stooped to kiss 
Mrs. Weasley too. 

“ Enchantee,” she said. “Your ’usband ’as been telling 
us such amusing stories!” 

Mr. Weasley gave a maniacal laugh; Mrs. Weasley 
threw him a look, upon which he became immediately 
silent and assumed an expression appropriate to the 
sickbed of a close friend. 

“And, of course, you ’ave met my leetle daughter, 
Gabrielle!” said Monsieur Delacour. Gabrielle was 
Fleur in miniature; eleven years old, with waist-length 
hair of pure, silvery blonde, she gave Mrs. Weasley a 
dazzling smile and hugged her, then threw Harry a 
glowing look, batting her eyelashes. Ginny cleared her 
throat loudly. 

“Well, come in, do!” said Mrs. Weasley brightly, and 
she ushered the Delacours into the house, with many 
“No, please!”s and “After you!”s and “Not at all!”s. 

The Delacours, it soon transpired, were helpful, 
pleasant guests. They were pleased with everything 
and keen to assist with the preparations for the 
wedding. Monsieur Delacour pronounced everything 
from the seating plan to the bridesmaids’ shoes 
“Charmanti” Madame Delacour was most 
accomplished at household spells and had the oven 
properly cleaned in a trice; Gabrielle followed her 
elder sister around, trying to assist in any way she 
could and jabbering away in rapid French. 

On the downside, the Burrow was not built to 
accommodate so many people. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley 
were now sleeping in the sitting room, having shouted 
down Monsieur and Madame Delacour’s protests and 
insisted they take their bedroom. Gabrielle was 
Page | 120 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




sleeping with Fleur in Percy’s old room, and Bill 
would be sharing with Charlie, his best man, once 
Charlie arrived from Romania. Opportunities to make 
plans together became virtually nonexistent, and it 
was in desperation that Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
took to volunteering to feed the chickens just to 
escape the overcrowded house. 

“But she still won’t leave us alone!” snarled Ron, as 
their second attempt at a meeting in the yard was 
foiled by the appearance of Mrs. Weasley carrying a 
large basket of laundry in her arms. 

“Oh, good, you’ve fed the chickens,” she called as she 
approached them. “We’d better shut them away again 
before the men arrive tomorrow ... to put up the tent 
for the wedding,” she explained, pausing to lean 
against the henhouse. She looked exhausted. 
“Millamant’s Magic Marquees ... they’re very good, 
Bill’s escorting them. ... You’d better stay inside while 
they’re here, Harry. I must say it does complicate 
organizing a wedding, having all these security spells 
around the place.” 

“I’m sorry,” said Harry humbly. 

“Oh, don’t be silly, dear!” said Mrs. Weasley at once. “I 
didn’t mean — well, your safety’s much more 
important! Actually, I’ve been wanting to ask you how 
you want to celebrate your birthday, Harry. 

Seventeen, after all, it’s an important day. ...” 

“I don’t want a fuss,” said Harry quickly, envisaging 
the additional strain this would put on them all. 
“Really, Mrs. Weasley, just a normal dinner would be 
fine. ... It’s the day before the wedding. ...” 

“Oh, well, if you’re sure, dear. I’ll invite Remus and 
Tonks, shall I? And how about Hagrid?” 

Page | 121 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“That’d be great,” said Harry. “But please don’t go to 
loads of trouble.” 

“Not at all, not at all ... It’s no trouble. ...” 

She looked at him, a long, searching look, then smiled 
a little sadly, straightened up, and walked away. 

Harry watched as she waved her wand near the 
washing line, and the damp clothes rose into the air 
to hang themselves up, and suddenly he felt a great 
wave of remorse for the inconvenience and the pain 
he was giving her. 



Page | 122 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




7 




THE WILL OF ALBUS DUMBLEDORE 

He was walking along a mountain road in the cool 
blue light of dawn. Far below, swathed in mist, was 
the shadow of a small town. Was the man he sought 
down there, the man he needed so badly he could 
think of little else, the man who held the answer, the 
answer to his problem . . . ? 

“Oi, wake up.” 

Harry opened his eyes. He was lying again on the 
camp bed in Ron’s dingy attic room. The sun had not 
yet risen and the room was still shadowy. Pigwidgeon 
was asleep with his head under his tiny wing. The 
scar on Harry’s forehead was prickling. 

“You were muttering in your sleep.” 

“Was I?” 

“Yeah. ‘Gregorovitch.’ You kept saying ‘Gregorovitch.’ 



Page | 123 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



Harry was not wearing his glasses; Ron’s face 
appeared slightly blurred. 



“Who’s Gregorovitch?” 

“I dunno, do I? You were the one saying it.” 

Harry rubbed his forehead, thinking. He had a vague 
idea he had heard the name before, but he could not 
think where. 

“I think Voldemort’s looking for him.” 

“Poor bloke,” said Ron fervently. 

Harry sat up, still rubbing his scar, now wide awake. 
He tried to remember exactly what he had seen in the 
dream, but all that came back was a mountainous 
horizon and the outline of the little village cradled in a 
deep valley. 

“I think he’s abroad.” 

“Who, Gregorovitch?” 

“Voldemort. I think he’s somewhere abroad, looking 
for Gregorovitch. It didn’t look like anywhere in 
Britain.” 

“You reckon you were seeing into his mind again?” 
Ron sounded worried. 

“Do me a favor and don’t tell Hermione,” said Harry. 
“Although how she expects me to stop seeing stuff in 
my sleep ...” 

He gazed up at little Pigwidgeon’s cage, thinking ... 
Why was the name “Gregorovitch” familiar? 

Page | 124 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I think,” he said slowly, “he’s got something to do 
with Quidditch. There’s some connection, but I can’t 
— I can’t think what it is.” 

“Quidditch?” said Ron. “Sure you’re not thinking of 
Gorgovitch?” 

“Who?” 

“Dragomir Gorgovitch, Chaser, transferred to the 
Chudley Cannons for a record fee two years ago. 
Record holder for most Quaffle drops in a season.” 

“No,” said Harry. “I’m definitely not thinking of 
Gorgovitch.” 

“I try not to either,” said Ron. “Well, happy birthday 
anyway.” 

“Wow — that’s right, I forgot! I’m seventeen!” 

Harry seized the wand lying beside his camp bed, 
pointed it at the cluttered desk where he had left his 
glasses, and said, “Accio Glasses!” Although they were 
only around a foot away, there was something 
immensely satisfying about seeing them zoom toward 
him, at least until they poked him in the eye. 

“Slick,” snorted Ron. 

Reveling in the removal of his Trace, Harry sent Ron’s 
possessions flying around the room, causing 
Pigwidgeon to wake up and flutter excitedly around 
his cage. Harry also tried tying the laces of his 
trainers by magic (the resultant knot took several 
minutes to untie by hand) and, purely for the 
pleasure of it, turned the orange robes on Ron’s 
Chudley Cannons posters bright blue. 



Page | 125 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I’d do your fly by hand, though,” Ron advised Harry, 
sniggering when Harry immediately checked it. 

“Here’s your present. Unwrap it up here, it’s not for 
my mother’s eyes.” 

“A book?” said Harry as he took the rectangular 
parcel. “Bit of a departure from tradition, isn’t it?” 

“This isn’t your average book,” said Ron. “It’s pure 
gold: Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches. 
Explains everything you need to know about girls. If 
only I’d had this last year I’d have known exactly how 
to get rid of Lavender and I would’ve known how to 
get going with ... Well, Fred and George gave me a 
copy, and I’ve learned a lot. You’d be surprised, it’s 
not all about wandwork, either.” 

When they arrived in the kitchen they found a pile of 
presents waiting on the table. Bill and Monsieur 
Delacour were finishing their breakfasts, while Mrs. 
Weasley stood chatting to them over the frying pan. 

“Arthur told me to wish you a happy seventeenth, 
Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley, beaming at him. “He had 
to leave early for work, but hell be back for dinner. 
That’s our present on top.” 

Harry sat down, took the square parcel she had 
indicated, and unwrapped it. Inside was a watch very 
like the one Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had given Ron for 
his seventeenth; it was gold, with stars circling 
around the face instead of hands. 

“It’s traditional to give a wizard a watch when he 
comes of age,” said Mrs. Weasley, watching him 
anxiously from beside the cooker. “I’m afraid that one 
isn’t new like Ron’s, it was actually my brother 
Fabian’s and he wasn’t terribly careful with his 
possessions, it’s a bit dented on the back, but — ” 
Page | 126 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The rest of her speech was lost; Harry had got up and 
hugged her. He tried to put a lot of unsaid things into 
the hug and perhaps she understood them, because 
she patted his cheek clumsily when he released her, 
then waved her wand in a slightly random way, 
causing half a pack of bacon to flop out of the frying 
pan onto the floor. 

“Happy birthday, Harry!” said Hermione, hurrying 
into the kitchen and adding her own present to the 
top of the pile. “It’s not much, but I hope you like it. 
What did you get him?” she added to Ron, who 
seemed not to hear her. 

“Come on, then, open Hermione’s!” said Ron. 

She had bought him a new Sneakoscope. The other 
packages contained an enchanted razor from Bill and 
Fleur (“Ah yes, zis will give you ze smoothest shave 
you will ever ’ave,” Monsieur Delacour assured him, 
“but you must tell it clearly what you want . . . 
ozzerwise you might find you ’ave a leetle less hair 
zan you would like. ...”), chocolates from the 
Delacours, and an enormous box of the latest 
Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes merchandise from Fred 
and George. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not linger at the table, 
as the arrival of Madame Delacour, Fleur, and 
Gabrielle made the kitchen uncomfortably crowded. 

“I’ll pack these for you,” Hermione said brightly, 
taking Harry’s presents out of his arms as the three of 
them headed back upstairs. “I’m nearly done, I’m just 
waiting for the rest of your underpants to come out of 
the wash, Ron — ” 

Ron’s splutter was interrupted by the opening of a 
door on the first-floor landing. 

Page | 127 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, will you come in here a moment?” 

It was Ginny. Ron came to an abrupt halt, but 
Hermione took him by the elbow and tugged him on 
up the stairs. Feeling nervous, Harry followed Ginny 
into her room. 

He had never been inside it before. It was small, but 
bright. There was a large poster of the Wizarding 
band the Weird Sisters on one wall, and a picture of 
Gwenog Jones, Captain of the all-witch Quidditch 
team the Holyhead Harpies, on the other. A desk 
stood facing the open window, which looked out over 
the orchard where he and Ginny had once played 
two-a-side Quidditch with Ron and Hermione, and 
which now housed a large, pearly white marquee. The 
golden flag on top was level with Ginny’s window. 

Ginny looked up into Harry’s face, took a deep breath, 
and said, “Happy seventeenth.” 

“Yeah ... thanks.” 

She was looking at him steadily; he, however, found it 
difficult to look back at her; it was like gazing into a 
brilliant light. 

“Nice view,” he said feebly, pointing toward the 
window. 

She ignored this. He could not blame her. 

“I couldn’t think what to get you,” she said. 

“You didn’t have to get me anything.” 

She disregarded this too. 



Page | 128 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I didn’t know what would be useful. Nothing too big, 
because you wouldn’t be able to take it with you.” 

He chanced a glance at her. She was not tearful; that 
was one of the many wonderful things about Ginny, 
she was rarely weepy. He had sometimes thought that 
having six brothers must have toughened her up. 

She took a step closer to him. 

“So then I thought, I’d like you to have something to 
remember me by, you know, if you meet some veela 
when you’re off doing whatever you’re doing.” 

“I think dating opportunities are going to be pretty 
thin on the ground, to be honest.” 

“There’s the silver lining I’ve been looking for,” she 
whispered, and then she was kissing him as she had 
never kissed him before, and Harry was kissing her 
back, and it was blissful oblivion, better than 
firewhisky; she was the only real thing in the world, 
Ginny, the feel of her, one hand at her back and one 
in her long, sweet-smelling hair — 

The door banged open behind them and they jumped 
apart. 

“Oh,” said Ron pointedly. “Sorry.” 

“Ron!” Hermione was just behind him, slightly out of 
breath. There was a strained silence, then Ginny said 
in a flat little voice, 

“Well, happy birthday anyway, Harry.” 

Ron’s ears were scarlet; Hermione looked nervous. 
Harry wanted to slam the door in their faces, but it 
felt as though a cold draft had entered the room when 

Page | 129 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




the door opened, and his shining moment had popped 
like a soap bubble. All the reasons for ending his 
relationship with Ginny, for staying well away from 
her, seemed to have slunk inside the room with Ron, 
and all happy forgetfulness was gone. 

He looked at Ginny, wanting to say something, 
though he hardly knew what, but she had turned her 
back on him. He thought that she might have 
succumbed, for once, to tears. He could not do 
anything to comfort her in front of Ron. 

“I’ll see you later,” he said, and followed the other two 
out of the bedroom. 

Ron marched downstairs, through the still-crowded 
kitchen and into the yard, and Harry kept pace with 
him all the way, Hermione trotting along behind them 
looking scared. 

Once he reached the seclusion of the freshly mown 
lawn, Ron rounded on Harry. 

“You ditched her. What are you doing now, messing 
her around?” 

“I’m not messing her around,” said Harry, as 
Hermione caught up with them. 

“Ron — ” 

But Ron held up a hand to silence her. 

“She was really cut up when you ended it — ” 

“So was I. You know why I stopped it, and it wasn’t 
because I wanted to.” 



Page | 130 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, but you go snogging her now and she’s just 
going to get her hopes up again — ” 

“She’s not an idiot, she knows it can’t happen, she’s 
not expecting us to — to end up married, or — ” 

As he said it, a vivid picture formed in Harry’s mind of 
Ginny in a white dress, marrying a tall, faceless, and 
unpleasant stranger. In one spiraling moment it 
seemed to hit him: Her future was free and 
unencumbered, whereas his ... he could see nothing 
but Voldemort ahead. 

“If you keep groping her every chance you get — ” 

“It won’t happen again,” said Harry harshly. The day 
was cloudless, but he felt as though the sun had gone 
in. “Okay?” 

Ron looked half resentful, half sheepish; he rocked 
backward and forward on his feet for a moment, then 
said, “Right then, well, that’s ... yeah.” 

Ginny did not seek another one-to-one meeting with 
Harry for the rest of the day, nor by any look or 
gesture did she show that they had shared more than 
polite conversation in her room. Nevertheless, 

Charlie’s arrival came as a relief to Harry. It provided 
a distraction, watching Mrs. Weasley force Charlie 
into a chair, raise her wand threateningly, and 
announce that he was about to get a proper haircut. 

As Harry’s birthday dinner would have stretched the 
Burrow’s kitchen to breaking point even before the 
arrival of Charlie, Lupin, Tonks, and Hagrid, several 
tables were placed end to end in the garden. Fred and 
George bewitched a number of purple lanterns, all 
emblazoned with a large number 17, to hang in 
midair over the guests. Thanks to Mrs. Weasley’s 
Page | 131 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




ministrations, George’s wound was neat and clean, 
but Harry was not yet used to the dark hole in the 
side of his head, despite the twins’ many jokes about 
it. 

Hermione made purple and gold streamers erupt from 
the end of her wand and drape themselves artistically 
over the trees and bushes. 

“Nice,” said Ron, as with one final flourish of her 
wand, Hermione turned the leaves on the crabapple 
tree to gold. “You’ve really got an eye for that sort of 
thing.” 

“Thank you, Ron!” said Hermione, looking both 
pleased and a little confused. Harry turned away, 
smiling to himself. He had a funny notion that he 
would find a chapter on compliments when he found 
time to peruse his copy of Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to 
Charm Witches; he caught Ginny’s eye and grinned at 
her before remembering his promise to Ron and 
hurriedly striking up a conversation with Monsieur 
Delacour. 

“Out of the way, out of the way!” sang Mrs. Weasley, 
coming through the gate with what appeared to be a 
giant, beach-ball-sized Snitch floating in front of her. 
Seconds later Harry realized that it was his birthday 
cake, which Mrs. Weasley was suspending with her 
wand, rather than risk carrying it over the uneven 
ground. When the cake had finally landed in the 
middle of the table, Harry said, “That looks amazing, 
Mrs. Weasley.” 

“Oh, it’s nothing, dear,” she said fondly. Over her 
shoulder, Ron gave Harry the thumbs-up and 
mouthed, Good one. 



Page | 132 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




By seven o’clock all the guests had arrived, led into 
the house by Fred and George, who had waited for 
them at the end of the lane. Hagrid had honored the 
occasion by wearing his best, and horrible, hairy 
brown suit. Although Lupin smiled as he shook 
Harry’s hand, Harry thought he looked rather 
unhappy. It was all very odd; Tonks, beside him, 
looked simply radiant. 

“Happy birthday, Harry,” she said, hugging him 
