


“And you are fifteen years old?” 

“Yes, and — ” 

“You learned this at school?” 

“Yes, Professor Lupin taught me in my third year, 
because of the — ” 

“Impressive,” said Madam Bones, staring down at 
him, “a true Patronus at that age ... very impressive 
indeed.” 

Some of the wizards and witches around her were 
muttering again; a few nodded, but others were 
frowning and shaking their heads. 

“It’s not a question of how impressive the magic was,” 
said Fudge in a testy voice. “In fact, the more 

Page | 181Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




impressive the worse it is, I would have thought, given 
that the boy did it in plain view of a Muggle!” 



Those who had been frowning now murmured in 
agreement, but it was the sight of Percy’s 
sanctimonious little nod that goaded Harry into 
speech. 

“I did it because of the dementors!” he said loudly, 
before anyone could interrupt him again. 

He had expected more muttering, but the silence that 
fell seemed to be somehow denser than before. 

“Dementors?” said Madam Bones after a moment, 
raising her thick eyebrows so that her monocle looked 
in danger of falling out. “What do you mean, boy?” 

“I mean there were two dementors down that alleyway 
and they went for me and my cousin!” 

“Ah,” said Fudge again, smirking unpleasantly as he 
looked around at the Wizengamot, as though inviting 
them to share the joke. “Yes. Yes, I thought we’d be 
hearing something like this.” 

“Dementors in Little Whinging?” Madam Bones said 
in tones of great surprise. “I don’t understand — ” 

“Don’t you, Amelia?” said Fudge, still smirking. “Let 
me explain. He’s been thinking it through and decided 
dementors would make a very nice little cover story, 
very nice indeed. Muggles can’t see dementors, can 
they, boy? Highly convenient, highly convenient ... so 
it’s just your word and no witnesses...” 

“I’m not lying!” said Harry loudly, over another 
outbreak of muttering from the court. “There were two 
of them, coming from opposite ends of the alley, 

Page | 182Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




everything went dark and cold and my cousin felt 
them and ran for it — ” 

“Enough, enough!” said Fudge with a very 
supercilious look on his face. “I’m sorry to interrupt 
what I’m sure would have been a very well-rehearsed 
story — ” 

Dumbledore cleared his throat. The Wizengamot fell 
silent again. 

“We do, in fact, have a witness to the presence of 
dementors in that alleyway,” he said, “other than 
Dudley Dursley, I mean.” 

Fudge’s plump face seemed to slacken, as though 
somebody had let air out of it. He stared down at 
Dumbledore for a moment or two, then, with the 
appearance of a man pulling himself back together, 
said, “We haven’t got time to listen to more 
taradiddles, I’m afraid, Dumbledore. I want this dealt 
with quickly — ” 

“I may be wrong,” said Dumbledore pleasantly, “but I 
am sure that under the Wizengamot Charter of 
Rights, the accused has the right to present witnesses 
for his or her case? Isn’t that the policy of the 
Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Madam 
Bones?” he continued, addressing the witch in the 
monocle. 

“True,” said Madam Bones. “Perfectly true.” 

“Oh, very well, very well,” snapped Fudge. “Where is 
this person?” 

“I brought her with me,” said Dumbledore. “She’s just 
outside the door. Should I — ?” 



Page | 183Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No — Weasley, you go,” Fudge barked at Percy, who 
got up at once, hurried down the stone steps from the 
judge’s balcony, and hastened past Dumbledore and 
Harry without glancing at them. 

A moment later, Percy returned, followed by Mrs. 

Figg. She looked scared and more batty than ever. 
Harry wished she had thought to change out of her 
carpet slippers. 

Dumbledore stood up and gave Mrs. Figg his chair, 
conjuring a second one for himself. 

“Full name?” said Fudge loudly, when Mrs. Figg had 
perched herself nervously on the very edge of her 
seat. 

“Arabella Doreen Figg,” said Mrs. Figg in her quavery 
voice. 

“And who exactly are you?” said Fudge, in a bored 
and lofty voice. 

“I’m a resident of Little Whinging, close to where 
Harry Potter lives,” said Mrs. Figg. 

“We have no record of any witch or wizard living in 
Little Whinging other than Harry Potter,” said Madam 
Bones at once. “That situation has always been 
closely monitored, given ... given past events.” 

“I’m a Squib,” said Mrs. Figg. “So you wouldn’t have 
me registered, would you?” 

“A Squib, eh?” said Fudge, eyeing her suspiciously. 
“We’ll be checking that. You’ll leave details of your 
parentage with my assistant, Weasley. Incidentally, 
can Squibs see dementors?” he added, looking left 
and right along the bench where he sat. 

Page | 184Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, we can!” said Mrs. Figg indignantly. 



Fudge looked back down at her, his eyebrows raised. 
“Very well,” he said coolly. “What is your story?” 

“I had gone out to buy cat food from the corner shop 
at the end of Wisteria Walk, shortly after nine on the 
evening of the second of August,” gabbled Mrs. Figg at 
once, as though she had learned what she was saying 
by heart, “when I heard a disturbance down the 
alleyway between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria 
Walk. On approaching the mouth of the alleyway I 
saw dementors running — ” 

“Running?” said Madam Bones sharply. “Dementors 
don’t run, they glide.” 

“That’s what I meant to say,” said Mrs. Figg quickly, 
patches of pink appearing in her withered cheeks. 
“Gliding along the alley toward what looked like two 
boys.” 

“What did they look like?” said Madam Bones, 
narrowing her eyes so that the monocle’s edges 
disappeared into her flesh. 

“Well, one was very large and the other one rather 
skinny — ” 

“No, no,” said Madam Bones impatiently, “the 
dementors ... describe them.” 

“Oh,” said Mrs. Figg, the pink flush creeping up her 
neck now. “They were big. Big and wearing cloaks.” 

Harry felt a horrible sinking in the pit of his stomach. 
Whatever Mrs. Figg said to the contrary, it sounded to 
him as though the most she had ever seen was a 
picture of a dementor, and a picture could never 

Page | 185Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




convey the truth of what these beings were like: the 
eerie way they moved, hovering inches over the 
ground, or the rotting smell of them, or that terrible, 
rattling noise they made as they sucked on the 
surrounding air ... A dumpy wizard with a large black 
mustache in the second row leaned close to his 
neighbor, a frizzy-haired witch, and whispered 
something in her ear. She smirked and nodded. 

“Big and wearing cloaks,” repeated Madam Bones 
coolly, while Fudge snorted derisively. “I see. Anything 
else?” 

“Yes,” said Mrs. Figg. “I felt them. Everything went 
cold, and this was a very warm summer’s night, mark 
you. And I felt ... as though all happiness had gone 
from the world . . . and I remembered . . . dreadful 
things...” 

Her voice shook and died. 

Madam Bones’ eyes widened slightly. Harry could see 
red marks under her eyebrow where the monocle had 
dug into it. 

“What did the dementors do?” she asked, and Harry 
felt a rush of hope. 

“They went for the boys,” said Mrs. Figg, her voice 
stronger and more confident now, the pink flush 
ebbing away from her face. “One of them had fallen. 
The other was backing away, trying to repel the 
dementor. That was Harry. He tried twice and 
produced silver vapor. On the third attempt, he 
produced a Patronus, which charged down the first 
dementor and then, with his encouragement, chased 
away the second from his cousin. And that ... that 
was what happened,” Mrs. Figg finished, somewhat 
lamely. 

Page | 186Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Madam Bones looked down at Mrs. Figg in silence; 
Fudge was not looking at her at all, but fidgeting with 
his papers. Finally he raised his eyes and said, rather 
aggressively “That’s what you saw, is it?” 

“That was what happened,” Mrs. Figg repeated. 

“Very well,” said Fudge. “You may go.” 

Mrs. Figg cast a frightened look from Fudge to 
Dumbledore, then got up and shuffled off toward the 
door again. Harry heard it thud shut behind her. 

“Not a very convincing witness,” said Fudge loftily. 

“Oh, I don’t know,” said Madam Bones in her 
booming voice. “She certainly described the effects of 
a dementor attack very accurately. And I can’t 
imagine why she would say they were there if they 
weren’t — ” 

“But dementors wandering into a Muggle suburb and 
just happening to come across a wizard?” snorted 
Fudge. “The odds on that must be very, very long, 
even Bagman wouldn’t have bet — ” 

“Oh, I don’t think any of us believe the dementors 
were there by coincidence,” said Dumbledore lightly. 

The witch sitting to the right of Fudge with her face in 
shadow moved slightly, but everyone else was quite 
still and silent. 

“And what is that supposed to mean?” asked Fudge 
icily. 

“It means that I think they were ordered there,” said 
Dumbledore. 



Page | 187Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I think we might have a record of it if someone had 
ordered a pair of dementors to go strolling through 
Little Whinging!” barked Fudge. 

“Not if the dementors are taking orders from someone 
other than the Ministry of Magic these days,” said 
Dumbledore calmly. “I have already given you my 
views on this matter, Cornelius.” 

“Yes, you have,” said Fudge forcefully, “and I have no 
reason to believe that your views are anything other 
than bilge, Dumbledore. The dementors remain in 
place in Azkaban and are doing everything we ask 
them to.” 

“Then,” said Dumbledore, quietly but clearly, “we 
must ask ourselves why somebody within the 
Ministry ordered a pair of dementors into that 
alleyway on the second of August.” 

In the complete silence that greeted these words, the 
witch to the right of Fudge leaned forward so that 
Harry saw her for the first time. 

He thought she looked just like a large, pale toad. She 
was rather squat with a broad, flabby face, as little 
neck as Uncle Vernon, and a very wide, slack mouth. 
Her eyes were large, round, and slightly bulging. Even 
the little black velvet bow perched on top of her short 
curly hair put him in mind of a large fly she was 
about to catch on a long sticky tongue. 

“The Chair recognizes Dolores Jane Umbridge, Senior 
Undersecretary to the Minister,” said Fudge. 

The witch spoke in a fluttery, girlish, high-pitched 
voice that took Harry aback; he had been expecting a 
croak. 



Page | 188Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I’m sure I must have misunderstood you, Professor 
Dumbledore,” she said with a simper that left her big, 
round eyes as cold as ever. “So silly of me. But it 
sounded for a teensy moment as though you were 
suggesting that the Ministry of Magic had ordered an 
attack on this boy!” 

She gave a silvery laugh that made the hairs on the 
back of Harry’s neck stand up. A few other members 
of the Wizengamot laughed with her. It could not have 
been plainer that not one of them was really amused. 

“If it is true that the dementors are taking orders only 
from the Ministry of Magic, and it is also true that two 
dementors attacked Harry and his cousin a week ago, 
then it follows logically that somebody at the Ministry 
might have ordered the attacks,” said Dumbledore 
politely. “Of course, these particular dementors may 
have been outside Ministry control — ” 

“There are no dementors outside Ministry control!” 
snapped Fudge, who had turned brick red. 

Dumbledore inclined his head in a little bow. 

“Then undoubtedly the Ministry will be making a full 
inquiry into why two dementors were so very far from 
Azkaban and why they attacked without 
authorization.” 

“It is not for you to decide what the Ministry of Magic 
does or does not do, Dumbledore!” snapped Fudge, 
now a shade of magenta of which Uncle Vernon would 
have been proud. 

“Of course it isn’t,” said Dumbledore mildly. “I was 
merely expressing my confidence that this matter will 
not go uninvestigated.” 



Page | 189Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He glanced at Madam Bones, who readjusted her 
monocle and stared back at him, frowning slightly. 

“I would remind everybody that the behavior of these 
dementors, if indeed they are not figments of this 
boy’s imagination, is not the subject of this hearing!” 
said Fudge. “We are here to examine Harry Potter’s 
offenses under the Decree for the Reasonable 
Restriction of Underage Sorcery!” 

“Of course we are,” said Dumbledore, “but the 
presence of dementors in that alleyway is highly 
relevant. Clause seven of the Decree states that magic 
may be used before Muggles in exceptional 
circumstances, and as those exceptional 
circumstances include situations that threaten the 
life of the wizard or witch himself, or witches, wizards, 
or Muggles present at the time of the — ” 

“We are familiar with clause seven, thank you very 
much!” snarled Fudge. 

“Of course you are,” said Dumbledore courteously. 
“Then we are in agreement that Harry’s use of the 
Patronus Charm in these circumstances falls 
precisely into the category of exceptional 
circumstances it describes?” 

“If there were dementors, which I doubt — ” 

“You have heard from an eyewitness,” Dumbledore 
interrupted. “If you still doubt her truthfulness, call 
her back, question her again. I am sure she would not 
object.” 

“I — that — not — ” blustered Fudge, fiddling with the 
papers before him. “It’s — I want this over with today, 
Dumbledore!” 



Page | 190Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“But naturally, you would not care how many times 
you heard from a witness, if the alternative was a 
serious miscarriage of justice,” said Dumbledore. 

“Serious miscarriage, my hat!” said Fudge at the top 
of his voice. “Have you ever bothered to tot up the 
number of cock-and-bull stories this boy has come 
out with, Dumbledore, while trying to cover up his 
flagrant misuse of magic out of school? I suppose 
you’ve forgotten the Hover Charm he used three years 
ago -” 

“That wasn’t me, it was a house-elf!” said Harry. 

“YOU SEE?” roared Fudge, gesturing flamboyantly in 
Harry’s direction. “A house-elf! In a Muggle house! I 
ask you — ” 

“The house-elf in question is currently in the employ 
of Hogwarts School,” said Dumbledore. “I can 
summon him here in an instant to give evidence if 
you wish.” 

“I — not — I haven’t got time to listen to house-elves! 
Anyway, that’s not the only — he blew up his aunt, 
for God’s sake!” Fudge shouted, banging his fist on 
the judge’s bench and upsetting a bottle of ink. 

“And you very kindly did not press charges on that 
occasion, accepting, I presume, that even the best 
wizards cannot always control their emotions,” said 
Dumbledore calmly, as Fudge attempted to scrub the 
ink off his notes. 

“And I haven’t even started on what he gets up to at 
school — ” 

“ — but as the Ministry has no authority to punish 
Hogwarts students for misdemeanors at school, 

Page | 191Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s behavior there is not relevant to this inquiry,” 
said Dumbledore, politely as ever, but now with a 
suggestion of coolness behind his words. 

“Oho!” said Fudge. “Not our business what he does at 
school, eh? You think so?” 

“The Ministry does not have the power to expel 
Hogwarts students, Cornelius, as I reminded you on 
the night of the second of August,” said Dumbledore. 
“Nor does it have the right to confiscate wands until 
charges have been successfully proven, again, as I 
reminded you on the night of the second of August. In 
your admirable haste to ensure that the law is 
upheld, you appear, inadvertently I am sure, to have 
overlooked a few laws yourself.” 

“Laws can be changed,” said Fudge savagely. 

“Of course they can,” said Dumbledore, inclining his 
head. “And you certainly seem to be making many 
changes, Cornelius. Why, in the few short weeks 
since I was asked to leave the Wizengamot, it has 
already become the practice to hold a full criminal 
trial to deal with a simple matter of underage magic!” 

A few of the wizards above them shifted 
uncomfortably in their seats. Fudge turned a slightly 
deeper shade of puce. The toadlike witch on his right, 
however, merely gazed at Dumbledore, her face quite 
expressionless. 

“As far as I am aware, however,” Dumbledore 
continued, “there is no law yet in place that says this 
court’s job is to punish Harry for every bit of magic he 
has ever performed. He has been charged with a 
specific offense and he has presented his defense. All 
he and I can do now is to await your verdict.” 



Page | 192Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore put his fingertips together again and said 
no more. Fudge glared at him, evidently incensed. 
Harry glanced sideways at Dumbledore, seeking 
reassurance; he was not at all sure that Dumbledore 
was right in telling the Wizengamot, in effect, that it 
was about time they made a decision. Again, however, 
Dumbledore seemed oblivious to Harry’s attempt to 
catch his eye. He continued to look up at the benches 
where the entire Wizengamot had fallen into urgent, 
whispered conversations. 

Harry looked at his feet. His heart, which seemed to 
have swollen to an unnatural size, was thumping 
loudly under his ribs. He had expected the hearing to 
last longer than this. He was not at all sure that he 
had made a good impression. He had not really said 
very much. He ought to have explained more fully 
about the dementors, about how he had fallen over, 
about how both he and Dudley had nearly been 
kissed... 

Twice he looked up at Fudge and opened his mouth to 
speak, but his swollen heart was now constricting his 
air passages and both times he merely took a deep 
breath and looked back at his shoes. 

Then the whispering stopped. Harry wanted to look 
up at the judges, but found that it was really much, 
much easier to keep examining his laces. 

“Those in favor of clearing the accused of all 
charges?” said Madam Bones ’s booming voice. 

Harry’s head jerked upward. There were hands in the 
air, many of them . . . more than half! Breathing very 
fast, he tried to count, but before he could finish 
Madam Bones had said, “And those in favor of 
conviction?” 



Page | 193Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge raised his hand; so did half a dozen others, 
including the witch on his right and the heavily 
mustached wizard and the frizzy-haired witch in the 
second row. 

Fudge glanced around at them all, looking as though 
there was something large stuck in his throat, then 
lowered his own hand. He took two deep breaths and 
then said, in a voice distorted by suppressed rage, 
“Very well, very well ... cleared of all charges.” 

“Excellent,” said Dumbledore briskly, springing to his 
feet, pulling out his wand, and causing the two chintz 
armchairs to vanish. “Well, I must be getting along. 
Good day to you all.” 

And without looking once at Harry, he swept from the 
dungeon. 



Page | 194Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE WOES OF MRS. WEASLEY 

Dumbledore’s abrupt departure took Harry 
completely by surprise. He remained sitting where he 
was in the chained chair, struggling with his feelings 
of shock and relief. The Wizengamot were all getting 
to their feet, talking, and gathering up their papers 
and packing them away. Harry stood up. Nobody 
seemed to be paying him the slightest bit of attention 
except the toadlike witch on Fudge’s right, who was 
now gazing down at him instead of at Dumbledore. 
Ignoring her, he tried to catch Fudge’s eye, or Madam 
Bones’s, wanting to ask whether he was free to go, 
but Fudge seemed quite determined not to notice 
Harry, and Madam Bones was busy with her 
briefcase, so he took a few tentative steps toward the 
exit and when nobody called him back, broke into a 
very fast walk. 

He took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open 
the door, and almost collided with Mr. Weasley, who 
was standing right outside, looking pale and 
apprehensive. 



Page | 195Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“Dumbledore didn’t say — ” 



“Cleared,” Harry said, pulling the door closed behind 
him, “of all charges!” 

Beaming, Mr. Weasley seized Harry by the shoulders. 

“Harry, that’s wonderful! Well, of course, they couldn’t 
have found you guilty, not on the evidence, but even 
so, I can’t pretend I wasn’t — ” 

But Mr. Weasley broke off, because the courtroom 
door had just opened again. The Wizengamot were 
filing out. 

“Merlin’s beard,” said Mr. Weasley wonderingly, 
pulling Harry aside to let them all pass, “you were 
tried by the full court?” 

“I think so,” said Harry quietly. 

One or two of the passing wizards nodded to Harry as 
they passed and a few, including Madam Bones, said, 
“Morning, Arthur,” to Mr. Weasley, but most averted 
their eyes. Cornelius Fudge and the toadlike witch 
were almost the last to leave the dungeon. Fudge 
acted as though Mr. Weasley and Harry were part of 
the wall, but again, the witch looked almost 
appraisingly at Harry as she passed. Last of all to 
pass was Percy. Like Fudge, he completely ignored his 
father and Harry; he marched past clutching a large 
roll of parchment and a handful of spare quills, his 
back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines around 
Mr. Weasley’s mouth tightened slightly, but other 
than this he gave no sign that he had noticed his 
third son. 

“I’m going to take you straight back so you can tell 
the others the good news,” he said, beckoning Harry 

Page | 196Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




forward as Percy’s heels disappeared up the stairs to 
the ninth level. I’ll drop you off on the way to that 
toilet in Bethnal Green. Come on...” 



“So what will you have to do about the toilet?” Harry 
asked, grinning. Everything suddenly seemed five 
times funnier than usual. It was starting to sink in: 
He was cleared, he was going hack to Hogwarts. 

“Oh, it’s a simple enough anti-jinx,” said Mr. Weasley 
as they mounted the stairs, “but it’s not so much 
having to repair the damage, it’s more the attitude 
behind the vandalism, Harry. Muggle-baiting might 
strike some wizards as funny, but it’s an expression 
of something much deeper and nastier, and I for one 



Mr. Weasley broke off in mid-sentence. They had just 
reached the ninth-level corridor, and Cornelius Fudge 
was standing a few feet away from them, talking 
quietly to a tall man with sleek blond hair and a 
pointed, pale face. 

The second man turned at the sound of their 
footsteps. He too broke off in mid-conversation, his 
cold gray eyes narrowed and fixed upon Harry’s face. 

“Well, well, well ... Patronus Potter,” said Lucius 
Malfoy coolly. 

Harry felt winded, as though he had just walked into 
something heavy. He had last seen those cool gray 
eyes through slits in a Death Eater’s hood, and last 
heard that man’s voice jeering in a dark graveyard 
while Lord Voldemort tortured him. He could not 
believe that Lucius Malfoy dared look him in the face; 
he could not believe that he was here, in the Ministry 
of Magic, or that Cornelius Fudge was talking to him, 



Page | 197Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




when Harry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that 
Malfoy was a Death Eater. 

“The Minister was just telling me about your lucky 
escape, Potter,” drawled Mr. Malfoy. “Quite 
astonishing, the way you continue to wriggle out of 
very tight holes... Snakelike, in fact ...” 

Mr. Weasley gripped Harry’s shoulder in warning. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “yeah, I’m good at escaping...” 

Lucius Malfoy raised his eyes to Mr. Weasley’s face. 

“And Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, 
Arthur?” 

“I work here,” said Mr. Weasley shortly. 

“Not here, surely?” said Mr. Malfoy, raising his 
eyebrows and glancing toward the door over Mr. 
Weasley’s shoulder. “I thought you were up on the 
second floor. . . Don’t you do something that involves 
sneaking Muggle artifacts home and bewitching 
them?” 

“No,” said Mr. Weasley curtly, his fingers now biting 
into Harry’s shoulder. 

“What are you doing here anyway?” Harry asked 
Lucius Malfoy. 

“I don’t think private matters between myself and the 
Minister are any concern of yours, Potter,” said 
Malfoy, smoothing the front of his robes; Harry 
distinctly heard the gentle clinking of what sounded 
like a full pocket of gold. “Really, just because you are 
Dumbledore’s favorite boy, you must not expect the 



Page | 198Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




same indulgence from the rest of us... Shall we go up 
to your office, then, Minister?” 

“Certainly,” said Fudge, turning his back on Harry 
and Mr. Weasley. “This way, Lucius.” 

They strode off together, talking in low voices. Mr. 
Weasley did not let go of Harry’s shoulder until they 
had disappeared into the lift. 

“Why wasn’t he waiting outside Fudge’s office if 
they’ve got business to do together?” Harry burst out 
furiously. “What was he doing down here?” 

“Trying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask 
me,” said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely agitated as 
he glanced over his shoulder as though making sure 
they could not be overheard. “Trying to find out 
whether you’d been expelled or not. I’ll leave a note 
for Dumbledore when I drop you off, he ought to 
know Malfoy’s been talking to Fudge again.” 

“What private business have they got together 
anyway?” 

“Gold, I expect,” said Mr. Weasley angrily. “Malfoy’s 
been giving generously to all sorts of things for 
years... Gets him in with the right people ... then he 
can ask favors ... delay laws he doesn’t want passed 
... Oh, he’s very well connected, Lucius Malfoy...” 

The lift arrived; it was empty except for a flock of 
memos that flapped around Mr. Weasley’s head as he 
pressed the button for the Atrium and the doors 
clanged shut; he waved them away irritably. 

“Mr. Weasley,” said Harry slowly, “if Fudge is meeting 
Death Eaters like Malfoy, if he’s seeing them alone, 



Page | 199Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




how do we know they haven’t put the Imperius Curse 
on him?” 

“Don’t think it hadn’t occurred to us, Harry,” 
muttered Mr. Weasley. “But Dumbledore thinks 
Fudge is acting of his own accord at the moment — 
which, as Dumbledore says, is not a lot of comfort... 
Best not talk about it anymore just now, Harry...” 

The doors slid open and they stepped out into the 
now almost-deserted Atrium. Eric the security man 
was hidden behind his Daily Prophet again. They had 
walked straight past the golden fountain before Harry 
remembered. 

“Wait...” he told Mr. Weasley, and pulling his money 
bag from his pocket, he turned back to the fountain. 

He looked up into the handsome wizard’s face, but up 
close, Harry thought he looked rather weak and 
foolish. The witch was wearing a vapid smile like a 
beauty contestant, and from what Harry knew of 
goblins and centaurs, they were most unlikely to be 
caught staring this soppily at humans of any 
description. Only the house-elf’s attitude of creeping 
servility looked convincing. With a grin at the thought 
of what Hermione would say if she could see the 
statue of the elf, Harry turned his money bag upside 
down and emptied not just ten Galleons, but the 
whole contents into the pool at the statues’ feet. 

“I knew it!” yelled Ron, punching the air. “You always 
get away with stuff!” 

“They were bound to clear you,” said Hermione, who 
had looked positively faint with anxiety when Harry 
had entered the kitchen and was now holding a 
shaking hand over her eyes. “There was no case 
against you, none at all...” 

Page | 200Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Everyone seems quite relieved, though, considering 
they all knew I’d get off,” said Harry, smiling. 

Mrs. Weasley was wiping her face on her apron, and 
Fred, George, and Ginny were doing a kind of war 
dance to a chant that went “He got off, he got off he 
got off — ” 

“That’s enough, settle down!” shouted Mr. Weasley, 
though he too was smiling. “Listen, Sirius, Lucius 
Malfoy was at the Ministry — ” 

“What?” said Sirius sharply. 

“He got off he got off he got off — ” 

“Be quiet, you three! Yes, we saw him talking to 
Fudge on level nine, then they went up to Fudge’s 
office together. Dumbledore ought to know.” 

“Absolutely,” said Sirius. “We’ll tell him, don’t worry.” 

“Well, I’d better get going, there’s a vomiting toilet in 
Bethnal Green waiting for me. Molly, I’ll be late, I’m 
covering for Tonks, but Kingsley might be dropping in 
for dinner — ” 

“He got off he got off he got off — ” 

“That’s enough — Fred — George — Ginny!” said Mrs. 
Weasley, as Mr. Weasley left the kitchen. “Harry dear, 
come and sit down, have some lunch, you hardly ate 
breakfast...” 

Ron and Hermione sat themselves down opposite him 
looking happier than they had done since he had first 
arrived at number twelve, Grimmauld Place, and 
Harry’s feeling of giddy relief, which had been 
somewhat dented by his encounter with Lucius 
Page | 201Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy, swelled again. The gloomy house seemed 
warmer and more welcoming all of a sudden; even 
Kreacher looked less ugly as he poked his snoutlike 
nose into the kitchen to investigate the source of all 
the noise. 

“ ’Course, once Dumbledore turned up on your side, 
there was no way they were going to convict you,” 
said Ron happily, now dishing great mounds of 
mashed potatoes onto everyone’s plates. 

“Yeah, he swung it for me,” said Harry. He felt that it 
would sound highly ungrateful, not to mention 
childish, to say, “I wish he’d talked to me, though. Or 
even looked at me.” 

And as he thought this, the scar on his forehead 
burned so badly that he clapped his hand to it. 

“What’s up?” said Hermione, looking alarmed. 

“Scar,” Harry mumbled. “But it’s nothing... It happens 
all the time now...” 

None of the others had noticed a thing; all of them 
were now helping themselves to food while gloating 
over Harry’s narrow escape; Fred, George, and Ginny 
were still singing. Hermione looked rather anxious, 
but before she could say anything, Ron said happily, 

“I bet Dumbledore turns up this evening to celebrate 
with us, you know.” 

“I don’t think he’ll be able to, Ron,” said Mrs. Weasley, 
setting a huge plate of roast chicken down in front of 
Harry. “He’s really very busy at the moment.” 

“HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF—” 

“SHUT UP!” roared Mrs. Weasley. 

Page | 202Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Over the next few days Harry could not help noticing 
that there was one person within number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place, who did not seem wholly overjoyed 
that he would be returning to Hogwarts. Sirius had 
put up a very good show of happiness on first hearing 
the news, wringing Harry’s hand and beaming just 
like the rest of them; soon, however, he was moodier 
and surlier than before, talking less to everybody, 
even Harry, and spending increasing amounts of time 
shut up in his mother’s room with Buckbeak. 

“Don’t you go feeling guilty!” said Hermione sternly, 
after Harry had confided some of his feelings to her 
and Ron while they scrubbed out a moldy cupboard 
on the third floor a few days later. “You belong at 
Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. Personally, I think he’s 
being selfish.” 

“That’s a bit harsh, Hermione,” said Ron, frowning as 
he attempted to prize off a bit of mold that had 
attached itself firmly to his finger, “you wouldn’t want 
to be stuck inside this house without company.” 

“He’ll have company!” said Hermione. “It’s 
headquarters to the Order of the Phoenix, isn’t it? He 
just got his hopes up that Harry would be coming to 
live here with him.” 

“I don’t think that’s true,” said Harry, wringing out 
his cloth. “He wouldn’t give me a straight answer 
when I asked him if I could.” 

“He just didn’t want to get his own hopes up even 
more,” said Hermione wisely. “And he probably felt a 
bit guilty himself, because I think a part of him was 
really hoping you’d be expelled. Then you’d both be 
outcasts together.” 


