      Yes, Mrs. Soames was in, but the maid did not know if she was
      seeing people.

      James, moving with the rapidity that ever astonished the
      observers of his long figure and absorbed expression, went
      forthwith into the drawing-room without permitting this to be
      ascertained. He found Irene seated at the piano with her hands
      arrested on the keys, evidently listening to the voices in the
      hall. She greeted him without smiling.

      “Your mother-in-law’s in bed,” he began, hoping at once to enlist
      her sympathy. “I’ve got the carriage here. Now, be a good girl,
      and put on your hat and come with me for a drive. It’ll do you
      good!”

      Irene looked at him as though about to refuse, but, seeming to
      change her mind, went upstairs, and came down again with her hat
      on.

      “Where are you going to take me?” she asked.

      “We’ll just go down to Robin Hill,” said James, spluttering out
      his words very quick; “the horses want exercise, and I should
      like to see what they’ve been doing down there.”

      Irene hung back, but again changed her mind, and went out to the
      carriage, James brooding over her closely, to make quite sure.

      It was not before he had got her more than half way that he
      began: “Soames is very fond of you—he won’t have anything said
      against you; why don’t you show him more affection?”

      Irene flushed, and said in a low voice: “I can’t show what I
      haven’t got.”

      James looked at her sharply; he felt that now he had her in his
      own carriage, with his own horses and servants, he was really in
      command of the situation. She could not put him off; nor would
      she make a scene in public.

      “I can’t think what you’re about,” he said. “He’s a very good
      husband!”

      Irene’s answer was so low as to be almost inaudible among the
      sounds of traffic. He caught the words: “You are not married to
      him!”

      “What’s that got to do with it? He’s given you everything you
      want. He’s always ready to take you anywhere, and now he’s built
      you this house in the country. It’s not as if you had anything of
      your own.”

      “No.”

      Again James looked at her; he could not make out the expression
      on her face. She looked almost as if she were going to cry, and
      yet....

      “I’m sure,” he muttered hastily, “we’ve all tried to be kind to
      you.”

      Irene’s lips quivered; to his dismay James saw a tear steal down
      her cheek. He felt a choke rise in his own throat.

      “We’re all fond of you,” he said, “if you’d only”—he was going to
      say, “behave yourself,” but changed it to—“if you’d only be more
      of a wife to him.”

      Irene did not answer, and James, too, ceased speaking. There was
      something in her silence which disconcerted him; it was not the
      silence of obstinacy, rather that of acquiescence in all that he
      could find to say. And yet he felt as if he had not had the last
      word. He could not understand this.

      He was unable, however, to long keep silence.

      “I suppose that young Bosinney,” he said, “will be getting
      married to June now?”

      Irene’s face changed. “I don’t know,” she said; “you should ask
      _her_.”

      “Does she write to you?”

      “No.”

      “No.”

      “How’s that?” said James. “I thought you and she were such great
      friends.”

      Irene turned on him. “Again,” she said, “you should ask _her!_”

      “Well,” flustered James, frightened by her look, “it’s very odd
      that I can’t get a plain answer to a plain question, but there it
      is.”

      He sat ruminating over his rebuff, and burst out at last:

      “Well, I’ve warned you. You won’t look ahead. Soames he doesn’t
      say much, but I can see he won’t stand a great deal more of this
      sort of thing. You’ll have nobody but yourself to blame, and,
      what’s more, you’ll get no sympathy from anybody.”

      Irene bent her head with a little smiling bow. “I am very much
      obliged to you.”

      James did not know what on earth to answer.

      The bright hot morning had changed slowly to a grey, oppressive
      afternoon; a heavy bank of clouds, with the yellow tinge of
      coming thunder, had risen in the south, and was creeping up.

      The branches of the trees dropped motionless across the road
      without the smallest stir of foliage. A faint odour of glue from
      the heated horses clung in the thick air; the coachman and groom,
      rigid and unbending, exchanged stealthy murmurs on the box,
      without ever turning their heads.

      To James’ great relief they reached the house at last; the
      silence and impenetrability of this woman by his side, whom he
      had always thought so soft and mild, alarmed him.

      The carriage put them down at the door, and they entered.

      The hall was cool, and so still that it was like passing into a
      tomb; a shudder ran down James’s spine. He quickly lifted the
      heavy leather curtains between the columns into the inner court.

      He could not restrain an exclamation of approval.

      The decoration was really in excellent taste. The dull ruby tiles
      that extended from the foot of the walls to the verge of a
      circular clump of tall iris plants, surrounding in turn a sunken
      basin of white marble filled with water, were obviously of the
      best quality. He admired extremely the purple leather curtains
      drawn along one entire side, framing a huge white-tiled stove.
      The central partitions of the skylight had been slid back, and
      the warm air from outside penetrated into the very heart of the
      house.

      He stood, his hands behind him, his head bent back on his high,
      narrow shoulders, spying the tracery on the columns and the
      pattern of the frieze which ran round the ivory-coloured walls
      under the gallery. Evidently, no pains had been spared. It was
      quite the house of a gentleman. He went up to the curtains, and,
      having discovered how they were worked, drew them asunder and
      disclosed the picture-gallery, ending in a great window taking up
      the whole end of the room. It had a black oak floor, and its
      walls, again, were of ivory white. He went on throwing open
      doors, and peeping in. Everything was in apple-pie order, ready
      for immediate occupation.

      He turned round at last to speak to Irene, and saw her standing
      over in the garden entrance, with her husband and Bosinney.

      Though not remarkable for sensibility, James felt at once that
      something was wrong. He went up to them, and, vaguely alarmed,
      ignorant of the nature of the trouble, made an attempt to smooth
      things over.

      “How are you, Mr. Bosinney?” he said, holding out his hand.
      “You’ve been spending money pretty freely down here, I should
      say!”

      Soames turned his back, and walked away.

      James looked from Bosinney’s frowning face to Irene, and, in his
      agitation, spoke his thoughts aloud: “Well, I can’t tell what’s
      the matter. Nobody tells me anything!” And, making off after his
      son, he heard Bosinney’s short laugh, and his “Well, thank God!
      You look so....” Most unfortunately he lost the rest.

      What had happened? He glanced back. Irene was very close to the
      architect, and her face not like the face he knew of her. He
      hastened up to his son.

      Soames was pacing the picture-gallery.

      “What’s the matter?” said James. “What’s all this?”

      Soames looked at him with his supercilious calm unbroken, but
      James knew well enough that he was violently angry.

      “Our friend,” he said, “has exceeded his instructions again,
      that’s all. So much the worse for him this time.”

      He turned round and walked back towards the door. James followed
      hurriedly, edging himself in front. He saw Irene take her finger
      from before her lips, heard her say something in her ordinary
      voice, and began to speak before he reached them.

      “There’s a storm coming on. We’d better get home. We can’t take
      you, I suppose, Mr. Bosinney? No, I suppose not. Then, good-bye!”
      He held out his hand. Bosinney did not take it, but, turning with
      a laugh, said:

      “Good-bye, Mr. Forsyte. Don’t get caught in the storm!” and
      walked away.

      “Well,” began James, “I don’t know....”

      But the sight of Irene’s face stopped him. Taking hold of his
      daughter-in-law by the elbow, he escorted her towards the
      carriage. He felt certain, quite certain, they had been making
      some appointment or other....

      Nothing in this world is more sure to upset a Forsyte than the
      discovery that something on which he has stipulated to spend a
      certain sum has cost more. And this is reasonable, for upon the
      accuracy of his estimates the whole policy of his life is
      ordered. If he cannot rely on definite values of property, his
      compass is amiss; he is adrift upon bitter waters without a helm.

      After writing to Bosinney in the terms that have already been
      chronicled, Soames had dismissed the cost of the house from his
      mind. He believed that he had made the matter of the final cost
      so very plain that the possibility of its being again exceeded
      had really never entered his head. On hearing from Bosinney that
      his limit of twelve thousand pounds would be exceeded by
      something like four hundred, he had grown white with anger. His
      original estimate of the cost of the house completed had been ten
      thousand pounds, and he had often blamed himself severely for
      allowing himself to be led into repeated excesses. Over this last
      expenditure, however, Bosinney had put himself completely in the
      wrong. How on earth a fellow could make such an ass of himself
      Soames could not conceive; but he had done so, and all the
      rancour and hidden jealousy that had been burning against him for
      so long was now focussed in rage at this crowning piece of
      extravagance. The attitude of the confident and friendly husband
      was gone. To preserve property—his wife—he had assumed it, to
      preserve property of another kind he lost it now.

      “Ah!” he had said to Bosinney when he could speak, “and I suppose
      you’re perfectly contented with yourself. But I may as well tell
      you that you’ve altogether mistaken your man!”

      What he meant by those words he did not quite know at the time,
      but after dinner he looked up the correspondence between himself
      and Bosinney to make quite sure. There could be no two opinions
      about it—the fellow had made himself liable for that extra four
      hundred, or, at all events, for three hundred and fifty of it,
      and he would have to make it good.

      He was looking at his wife’s face when he came to this
      conclusion. Seated in her usual seat on the sofa, she was
      altering the lace on a collar. She had not once spoken to him all
      the evening.

      He went up to the mantelpiece, and contemplating his face in the
      mirror said: “Your friend the Buccaneer has made a fool of
      himself; he will have to pay for it!”

      She looked at him scornfully, and answered: “I don’t know what
      you are talking about!”

      “You soon will. A mere trifle, quite beneath your contempt—four
      hundred pounds.”

      “Do you mean that you are going to make him pay that towards this
      hateful, house?”

      “I do.”

      “And you know he’s got nothing?”

      “Yes.”

      “Then you are meaner than I thought you.”

      Soames turned from the mirror, and unconsciously taking a china
      cup from the mantelpiece, clasped his hands around it as though
      praying. He saw her bosom rise and fall, her eyes darkening with
      anger, and taking no notice of the taunt, he asked quietly:

      “Are you carrying on a flirtation with Bosinney?”

      “No, I am not!”

      Her eyes met his, and he looked away. He neither believed nor
      disbelieved her, but he knew that he had made a mistake in
      asking; he never had known, never would know, what she was
      thinking. The sight of her inscrutable face, the thought of all
      the hundreds of evenings he had seen her sitting there like that
      soft and passive, but unreadable, unknown, enraged him beyond
      measure.

      “I believe you are made of stone,” he said, clenching his fingers
      so hard that he broke the fragile cup. The pieces fell into the
      grate. And Irene smiled.

      “You seem to forget,” she said, “that cup is not!”

      Soames gripped her arm. “A good beating,” he said, “is the only
      thing that would bring you to your senses,” but turning on his
      heel, he left the room.




      CHAPTER XIV SOAMES SITS ON THE STAIRS

      Soames went up-stairs that night with the feeling that he had
      gone too far. He was prepared to offer excuses for his words.

      He turned out the gas still burning in the passage outside their
      room. Pausing, with his hand on the knob of the door, he tried to
      shape his apology, for he had no intention of letting her see
      that he was nervous.

      But the door did not open, nor when he pulled it and turned the
      handle firmly. She must have locked it for some reason, and
      forgotten.

      Entering his dressing-room, where the gas was also lighted and
      burning low, he went quickly to the other door. That too was
      locked. Then he noticed that the camp bed which he occasionally
      used was prepared, and his sleeping-suit laid out upon it. He put
      his hand up to his forehead, and brought it away wet. It dawned
      on him that he was barred out.

      He went back to the door, and rattling the handle stealthily,
      called: “Unlock the door, do you hear? Unlock the door!”

      There was a faint rustling, but no answer.

      “Do you hear? Let me in at once—I insist on being let in!”

      He could catch the sound of her breathing close to the door, like
      the breathing of a creature threatened by danger.

      There was something terrifying in this inexorable silence, in the
      impossibility of getting at her. He went back to the other door,
      and putting his whole weight against it, tried to burst it open.
      The door was a new one—he had had them renewed himself, in
      readiness for their coming in after the honeymoon. In a rage he
      lifted his foot to kick in the panel; the thought of the servants
      restrained him, and he felt suddenly that he was beaten.

      Flinging himself down in the dressing-room, he took up a book.

      But instead of the print he seemed to see his wife—with her
      yellow hair flowing over her bare shoulders, and her great dark
      eyes—standing like an animal at bay. And the whole meaning of her
      act of revolt came to him. She meant it to be for good.

      He could not sit still, and went to the door again. He could
      still hear her, and he called: “Irene! Irene!”

      He did not mean to make his voice pathetic.

      In ominous answer, the faint sounds ceased. He stood with
      clenched hands, thinking.

      Presently he stole round on tiptoe, and running suddenly at the
      other door, made a supreme effort to break it open. It creaked,
      but did not yield. He sat down on the stairs and buried his face
      in his hands.

      For a long time he sat there in the dark, the moon through the
      skylight above laying a pale smear which lengthened slowly
      towards him down the stairway. He tried to be philosophical.

      Since she had locked her doors she had no further claim as a
      wife, and he would console himself with other women.

      It was but a spectral journey he made among such delights—he had
      no appetite for these exploits. He had never had much, and he had
      lost the habit. He felt that he could never recover it. His
      hunger could only be appeased by his wife, inexorable and
      frightened, behind these shut doors. No other woman could help
      him.

      This conviction came to him with terrible force out there in the
      dark.

      His philosophy left him; and surly anger took its place. Her
      conduct was immoral, inexcusable, worthy of any punishment within
      his power. He desired no one but her, and she refused him!

      She must really hate him, then! He had never believed it yet. He
      did not believe it now. It seemed to him incredible. He felt as
      though he had lost for ever his power of judgment. If she, so
      soft and yielding as he had always judged her, could take this
      decided step—what could not happen?

      Then he asked himself again if she were carrying on an intrigue
      with Bosinney. He did not believe that she was; he could not
      afford to believe such a reason for her conduct—the thought was
      not to be faced.

      It would be unbearable to contemplate the necessity of making his
      marital relations public property. Short of the most convincing
      proofs he must still refuse to believe, for he did not wish to
      punish himself. And all the time at heart—he _did_ believe.

      The moonlight cast a greyish tinge over his figure, hunched
      against the staircase wall.

      Bosinney was in love with her! He hated the fellow, and would not
      spare him now. He could and would refuse to pay a penny piece
      over twelve thousand and fifty pounds—the extreme limit fixed in
      the correspondence; or rather he would pay, he would pay and sue
      him for damages. He would go to Jobling and Boulter and put the
      matter in their hands. He would ruin the impecunious beggar! And
      suddenly—though what connection between the thoughts?—he
      reflected that Irene had no money either. They were both beggars.
      This gave him a strange satisfaction.

      The silence was broken by a faint creaking through the wall. She
      was going to bed at last. Ah! Joy and pleasant dreams! If she
      threw the door open wide he would not go in now!

      But his lips, that were twisted in a bitter smile, twitched; he
      covered his eyes with his hands....

      It was late the following afternoon when Soames stood in the
      dining-room window gazing gloomily into the Square.

      The sunlight still showered on the plane-trees, and in the breeze
      their gay broad leaves shone and swung in rhyme to a barrel organ
      at the corner. It was playing a waltz, an old waltz that was out
      of fashion, with a fateful rhythm in the notes; and it went on
      and on, though nothing indeed but leaves danced to the tune.

      The woman did not look too gay, for she was tired; and from the
      tall houses no one threw her down coppers. She moved the organ
      on, and three doors off began again.

      It was the waltz they had played at Roger’s when Irene had danced
      with Bosinney; and the perfume of the gardenias she had worn came
      back to Soames, drifted by the malicious music, as it had been
      drifted to him then, when she passed, her hair glistening, her
      eyes so soft, drawing Bosinney on and on down an endless
      ballroom.

      The organ woman plied her handle slowly; she had been grinding
      her tune all day—grinding it in Sloane Street hard by, grinding
      it perhaps to Bosinney himself.

      Soames turned, took a cigarette from the carven box, and walked
      back to the window. The tune had mesmerized him, and there came
      into his view Irene, her sunshade furled, hastening homewards
      down the Square, in a soft, rose-coloured blouse with drooping
      sleeves, that he did not know. She stopped before the organ, took
      out her purse, and gave the woman money.

      Soames shrank back and stood where he could see into the hall.

      She came in with her latch-key, put down her sunshade, and stood
      looking at herself in the glass. Her cheeks were flushed as if
      the sun had burned them; her lips were parted in a smile. She
      stretched her arms out as though to embrace herself, with a laugh
      that for all the world was like a sob.

      Soames stepped forward.

      “Very-pretty!” he said.

      But as though shot she spun round, and would have passed him up
      the stairs. He barred the way.

      “Why such a hurry?” he said, and his eyes fastened on a curl of
      hair fallen loose across her ear....

      He hardly recognised her. She seemed on fire, so deep and rich
      the colour of her cheeks, her eyes, her lips, and of the unusual
      blouse she wore.

      She put up her hand and smoothed back the curl. She was breathing
      fast and deep, as though she had been running, and with every
      breath perfume seemed to come from her hair, and from her body,
      like perfume from an opening flower.

      “I don’t like that blouse,” he said slowly, “it’s a soft,
      shapeless thing!”

      He lifted his finger towards her breast, but she dashed his hand
      aside.

      “Don’t touch me!” she cried.

      He caught her wrist; she wrenched it away.

      “And where may you have been?” he asked.

      “In heaven—out of this house!” With those words she fled
      upstairs.

      Outside—in thanksgiving—at the very door, the organ-grinder was
      playing the waltz.

      And Soames stood motionless. What prevented him from following
      her?

      Was it that, with the eyes of faith, he saw Bosinney looking down
      from that high window in Sloane Street, straining his eyes for
      yet another glimpse of Irene’s vanished figure, cooling his
      flushed face, dreaming of the moment when she flung herself on
      his breast—the scent of her still in the air around, and the
      sound of her laugh that was like a sob?


      PART III




      CHAPTER I MRS. MACANDER’S EVIDENCE

      Many people, no doubt, including the editor of the “Ultra
      Vivisectionist,” then in the bloom of its first youth, would say
      that Soames was less than a man not to have removed the locks
      from his wife’s doors, and, after beating her soundly, resumed
      wedded happiness.

      Brutality is not so deplorably diluted by humaneness as it used
      to be, yet a sentimental segment of the population may still be
      relieved to learn that he did none of these things. For active
      brutality is not popular with Forsytes; they are too circumspect,
      and, on the whole, too softhearted. And in Soames there was some
      common pride, not sufficient to make him do a really generous
      action, but enough to prevent his indulging in an extremely mean
      one, except, perhaps, in very hot blood. Above all this a true
      Forsyte refused to feel himself ridiculous. Short of actually
      beating his wife, he perceived nothing to be done; he therefore
      accepted the situation without another word.

      Throughout the summer and autumn he continued to go to the
      office, to sort his pictures, and ask his friends to dinner.

      He did not leave town; Irene refused to go away. The house at
      Robin Hill, finished though it was, remained empty and ownerless.
      Soames had brought a suit against the Buccaneer, in which he
      claimed from him the sum of three hundred and fifty pounds.

      A firm of solicitors, Messrs. Freak and Able, had put in a
      defence on Bosinney’s behalf. Admitting the facts, they raised a
      point on the correspondence which, divested of legal phraseology,
      amounted to this: To speak of “a _free_ hand in the terms of this
      correspondence” is an Irish bull.

      By a chance, fortuitous but not improbable in the close borough
      of legal circles, a good deal of information came to Soames’s ear
      anent this line of policy, the working partner in his firm,
      Bustard, happening to sit next at dinner at Walmisley’s, the
      Taxing Master, to young Chankery, of the Common Law Bar.

      The necessity for talking what is known as “shop,” which comes on
      all lawyers with the removal of the ladies, caused Chankery, a
      young and promising advocate, to propound an impersonal conundrum
      to his neighbour, whose name he did not know, for, seated as he
      permanently was in the background, Bustard had practically no
      name.

      He had, said Chankery, a case coming on with a “very nice point.”
      He then explained, preserving every professional discretion, the
      riddle in Soames’s case. Everyone, he said, to whom he had
      spoken, thought it a nice point. The issue was small
      unfortunately, “though d——d serious for his client he
      believed”—Walmisley’s champagne was bad but plentiful. A Judge
      would make short work of it, he was afraid. He intended to make a
      big effort—the point was a nice one. What did his neighbour say?

      Bustard, a model of secrecy, said nothing. He related the
      incident to Soames however with some malice, for this quiet man
      was capable of human feeling, ending with his own opinion that
      the point _was_ “a very nice one.”

      In accordance with his resolve, our Forsyte had put his interests
      into the hands of Jobling and Boulter. From the moment of doing
      so he regretted that he had not acted for himself. On receiving a
      copy of Bosinney’s defence he went over to their offices.

      Boulter, who had the matter in hand, Jobling having died some
      years before, told him that in his opinion it was rather a nice
      point; he would like counsel’s opinion on it.

      Soames told him to go to a good man, and they went to Waterbuck,
      Q.C., marking him ten and one, who kept the papers six weeks and
      then wrote as follows:

      “In my opinion the true interpretation of this correspondence
      depends very much on the intention of the parties, and will turn
      upon the evidence given at the trial. I am of opinion that an
      attempt should be made to secure from the architect an admission
      that he understood he was not to spend at the outside more than
      twelve thousand and fifty pounds. With regard to the expression,
      ‘a free hand in the terms of this correspondence,’ to which my
      attention is directed, the point is a nice one; but I am of
      opinion that upon the whole the ruling in ‘Boileau _v_. The
      Blasted Cement Co., Ltd.,’ will apply.”

      Upon this opinion they acted, administering interrogatories, but
      to their annoyance Messrs. Freak and Able answered these in so
      masterly a fashion that nothing whatever was admitted and that
      without prejudice.

      It was on October 1 that Soames read Waterbuck’s opinion, in the
      dining-room before dinner.

      It made him nervous; not so much because of the case of “Boileau
      _v_. The Blasted Cement Co., Ltd.,” as that the point had lately
      begun to seem to him, too, a nice one; there was about it just
      that pleasant flavour of subtlety so attractive to the best legal
      appetites. To have his own impression confirmed by Waterbuck,
      Q.C., would have disturbed any man.

      He sat thinking it over, and staring at the empty grate, for
      though autumn had come, the weather kept as gloriously fine that
      jubilee year as if it were still high August. It was not pleasant
      to be disturbed; he desired too passionately to set his foot on
      Bosinney’s neck.

      Though he had not seen the architect since the last afternoon at
      Robin Hill, he was never free from the sense of his
      presence—never free from the memory of his worn face with its
      high cheek bones and enthusiastic eyes. It would not be too much
      to say that he had never got rid of the feeling of that night
      when he heard the peacock’s cry at dawn—the feeling that Bosinney
      haunted the house. And every man’s shape that he saw in the dark
      evenings walking past, seemed that of him whom George had so
      appropriately named the Buccaneer.

      Irene still met him, he was certain; where, or how, he neither
      knew, nor asked; deterred by a vague and secret dread of too much
      knowledge. It all seemed subterranean nowadays.

      Sometimes when he questioned his wife as to where she had been,
      which he still made a point of doing, as every Forsyte should,
      she looked very strange. Her self-possession was wonderful, but
      there were moments when, behind the mask of her face, inscrutable
      as it had always been to him, lurked an expression he had never
      been used to see there.

      She had taken to lunching out too; when he asked Bilson if her
      mistress had been in to lunch, as often as not she would answer:
      “No, sir.”

      He strongly disapproved of her gadding about by herself, and told
      her so. But she took no notice. There was something that angered,
      amazed, yet almost amused him about the calm way in which she
      disregarded his wishes. It was really as if she were hugging to
      herself the thought of a triumph over him.

      He rose from the perusal of Waterbuck, Q.C.’s opinion, and, going
      upstairs, entered her room, for she did not lock her doors till
      bed-time—she had the decency, he found, to save the feelings of
      the servants. She was brushing her hair, and turned to him with
      strange fierceness.

      “What do you want?” she said. “Please leave my room!”

      He answered: “I want to know how long this state of things
      between us is to last? I have put up with it long enough.”

      “Will you please leave my room?”

      “Will you treat me as your husband?”

      “No.”

      “Then, I shall take steps to make you.”

      “Do!”

      He stared, amazed at the calmness of her answer. Her lips were
      compressed in a thin line; her hair lay in fluffy masses on her
      bare shoulders, in all its strange golden contrast to her dark
      eyes—those eyes alive with the emotions of fear, hate, contempt,
      and odd, haunting triumph.

      “Now, please, will you leave my room?” He turned round, and went
      sulkily out.

      He knew very well that he had no intention of taking steps, and
      he saw that she knew too—knew that he was afraid to.

      It was a habit with him to tell her the doings of his day: how
      such and such clients had called; how he had arranged a mortgage
      for Parkes; how that long-standing suit of Fryer _v_. Forsyte was
      getting on, which, arising in the preternaturally careful
      disposition of his property by his great uncle Nicholas, who had
      tied it up so that no one could get at it at all, seemed likely
      to remain a source of income for several solicitors till the Day
      of Judgment.

      And how he had called in at Jobson’s, and seen a Boucher sold,
      which he had just missed buying of Talleyrand and Sons in Pall
      Mall.

      He had an admiration for Boucher, Watteau, and all that school.
      It was a habit with him to tell her all these matters, and he
      continued to do it even now, talking for long spells at dinner,
      as though by the volubility of words he could conceal from
      himself the ache in his heart.

      Often, if they were alone, he made an attempt to kiss her when
      she said good-night. He may have had some vague notion that some
      night she would let him; or perhaps only the feeling that a
      husband ought to kiss his wife. Even if she hated him, he at all
      events ought not to put himself in the wrong by neglecting this
      ancient rite.

      And why did she hate him? Even now he could not altogether
      believe it. It was strange to be hated!—the emotion was too
      extreme; yet he hated Bosinney, that Buccaneer, that prowling
      vagabond, that night-wanderer. For in his thoughts Soames always
      saw him lying in wait—wandering. Ah, but he must be in very low
      water! Young Burkitt, the architect, had seen him coming out of a
      third-rate restaurant, looking terribly down in the mouth!

      During all the hours he lay awake, thinking over the situation,
      which seemed to have no end—unless she should suddenly come to
      her senses—never once did the thought of separating from his wife
      seriously enter his head....

      And the Forsytes! What part did they play in this stage of
      Soames’s subterranean tragedy?

      Truth to say, little or none, for they were at the sea.

      From hotels, hydropathics, or lodging-houses, they were bathing
      daily; laying in a stock of ozone to last them through the
      winter.

      Each section, in the vineyard of its own choosing, grew and
      culled and pressed and bottled the grapes of a pet sea-air.

      The end of September began to witness their several returns.

      In rude health and small omnibuses, with considerable colour in
      their cheeks, they arrived daily from the various termini. The
      following morning saw them back at their vocations.

      On the next Sunday Timothy’s was thronged from lunch till dinner.

      Amongst other gossip, too numerous and interesting to relate,
      Mrs. Septimus Small mentioned that Soames and Irene had not been
      away.

      It remained for a comparative outsider to supply the next
      evidence of interest.

      It chanced that one afternoon late in September, Mrs. MacAnder,
      Winifred Dartie’s greatest friend, taking a constitutional, with
      young Augustus Flippard, on her bicycle in Richmond Park, passed
      Irene and Bosinney walking from the bracken towards the Sheen
      Gate.

      Perhaps the poor little woman was thirsty, for she had ridden
      long on a hard, dry road, and, as all London knows, to ride a
      bicycle and talk to young Flippard will try the toughest
      constitution; or perhaps the sight of the cool bracken grove,
      whence “those two” were coming down, excited her envy. The cool
      bracken grove on the top of the hill, with the oak boughs for
      roof, where the pigeons were raising an endless wedding hymn, and
      the autumn, humming, whispered to the ears of lovers in the fern,
      while the deer stole by. The bracken grove of irretrievable
      delights, of golden minutes in the long marriage of heaven and
      earth! The bracken grove, sacred to stags, to strange tree-stump
      fauns leaping around the silver whiteness of a birch-tree nymph
      at summer dusk.

      This lady knew all the Forsytes, and having been at Jun’s “at
      home,” was not at a loss to see with whom she had to deal. Her
      own marriage, poor thing, had not been successful, but having had
      the good sense and ability to force her husband into pronounced
      error, she herself had passed through the necessary divorce
      proceedings without incurring censure.

      She was therefore a judge of all that sort of thing, and lived in
      one of those large buildings, where in small sets of apartments,
      are gathered incredible quantities of Forsytes, whose chief
      recreation out of business hours is the discussion of each
      other’s affairs.

      Poor little woman, perhaps she was thirsty, certainly she was
      bored, for Flippard was a wit. To see “those two” in so unlikely
      a spot was quite a merciful “pick-me-up.”

      At the MacAnder, like all London, Time pauses.

      This small but remarkable woman merits attention; her all-seeing
      eye and shrewd tongue were inscrutably the means of furthering
      the ends of Providence.

      With an air of being in at the death, she had an almost
      distressing power of taking care of herself. She had done more,
      perhaps, in her way than any woman about town to destroy the
      sense of chivalry which still clogs the wheel of civilization. So
      smart she was, and spoken of endearingly as “the little
      MacAnder!”

      Dressing tightly and well, she belonged to a Woman’s Club, but
      was by no means the neurotic and dismal type of member who was
      always thinking of her rights. She took her rights unconsciously,
      they came natural to her, and she knew exactly how to make the
      most of them without exciting anything but admiration amongst
      that great class to whom she was affiliated, not precisely
      perhaps by manner, but by birth, breeding, and the true, the
      secret gauge, a sense of property.

      The daughter of a Bedfordshire solicitor, by the daughter of a
      clergyman, she had never, through all the painful experience of
      being married to a very mild painter with a cranky love of
      Nature, who had deserted her for an actress, lost touch with the
      requirements, beliefs, and inner feeling of Society; and, on
      attaining her liberty, she placed herself without effort in the
      very van of Forsyteism.

      Always in good spirits, and “full of information,” she was
      universally welcomed. She excited neither surprise nor
      disapprobation when encountered on the Rhine or at Zermatt,
      either alone, or travelling with a lady and two gentlemen; it was
      felt that she was perfectly capable of taking care of herself;
      and the hearts of all Forsytes warmed to that wonderful instinct,
      which enabled her to enjoy everything without giving anything
      away. It was generally felt that to such women as Mrs. MacAnder
      should we look for the perpetuation and increase of our best type
      of woman. She had never had any children.

      If there was one thing more than another that she could not stand
      it was one of those soft women with what men called “charm” about
      them, and for Mrs. Soames she always had an especial dislike.

      Obscurely, no doubt, she felt that if charm were once admitted as
      the criterion, smartness and capability must go to the wall; and
      she hated—with a hatred the deeper that at times this so-called
      charm seemed to disturb all calculations—the subtle seductiveness
      which she could not altogether overlook in Irene.

      She said, however, that she could see nothing in the woman—there
      was no “go” about her—she would never be able to stand up for
      herself—anyone could take advantage of her, that was plain—she
      could not see in fact what men found to admire!

      She was not really ill-natured, but, in maintaining her position
      after the trying circumstances of her married life, she had found
      it so necessary to be “full of information,” that the idea of
      holding her tongue about “those two” in the Park never occurred
      to her.

      And it so happened that she was dining that very evening at
      Timothy’s, where she went sometimes to “cheer the old things up,”
      as she was wont to put it. The same people were always asked to
      meet her: Winifred Dartie and her husband; Francie, because she
      belonged to the artistic circles, for Mrs. MacAnder was known to
      contribute articles on dress to “The Ladies Kingdom Come”. and
      for her to flirt with, provided they could be obtained, two of
      the Hayman boys, who, though they never said anything, were
      believed to be fast and thoroughly intimate with all that was
      latest in smart Society.

      At twenty-five minutes past seven she turned out the electric
      light in her little hall, and wrapped in her opera cloak with the
      chinchilla collar, came out into the corridor, pausing a moment
      to make sure she had her latch-key. These little self-contained
      flats were convenient; to be sure, she had no light and no air,
      but she could shut it up whenever she liked and go away. There
      was no bother with servants, and she never felt tied as she used
      to when poor, dear Fred was always about, in his mooney way. She
      retained no rancour against poor, dear Fred, he was such a fool;
      but the thought of that actress drew from her, even now, a
      little, bitter, derisive smile.

      Firmly snapping the door to, she crossed the corridor, with its
      gloomy, yellow-ochre walls, and its infinite vista of brown,
      numbered doors. The lift was going down; and wrapped to the ears
      in the high cloak, with every one of her auburn hairs in its
      place, she waited motionless for it to stop at her floor. The
      iron gates clanked open; she entered. There were already three
      occupants, a man in a great white waistcoat, with a large, smooth
      face like a baby’s, and two old ladies in black, with mittened
      hands.

      Mrs. MacAnder smiled at them; she knew everybody; and all these
      three, who had been admirably silent before, began to talk at
      once. This was Mrs. MacAnder’s successful secret. She provoked
      conversation.

      Throughout a descent of five stories the conversation continued,
      the lift boy standing with his back turned, his cynical face
      protruding through the bars.

      At the bottom they separated, the man in the white waistcoat
      sentimentally to the billiard room, the old ladies to dine and
      say to each other: “A dear little woman!” “Such a rattle!” and
      Mrs. MacAnder to her cab.

      When Mrs. MacAnder dined at Timothy’s, the conversation (although
      Timothy himself could never be induced to be present) took that
      wider, man-of-the-world tone current among Forsytes at large, and
      this, no doubt, was what put her at a premium there.

      Mrs. Small and Aunt Hester found it an exhilarating change. “If
      only,” they said, “Timothy would meet her!” It was felt that she
      would do him good. She could tell you, for instance, the latest
      story of Sir Charles Fiste’s son at Monte Carlo; who was the real
      heroine of Tynemouth Eddy’s fashionable novel that everyone was
      holding up their hands over, and what they were doing in Paris
      about wearing bloomers. She was so sensible, too, knowing all
      about that vexed question, whether to send young Nicholas’ eldest
      into the navy as his mother wished, or make him an accountant as
      his father thought would be safer. She strongly deprecated the
      navy. If you were not exceptionally brilliant or exceptionally
      well connected, they passed you over so disgracefully, and what
      was it after all to look forward to, even if you became an
      admiral—a pittance! An accountant had many more chances, but let
      him be put with a good firm, where there was no risk at starting!

      Sometimes she would give them a tip on the Stock Exchange; not
      that Mrs. Small or Aunt Hester ever took it. They had indeed no
      money to invest; but it seemed to bring them into such exciting
      touch with the realities of life. It was an event. They would ask
      Timothy, they said. But they never did, knowing in advance that
      it would upset him. Surreptitiously, however, for weeks after
      they would look in that paper, which they took with respect on
      account of its really fashionable proclivities, to see whether
      “Bright’s Rubies” or “The Woollen Mackintosh Company” were up or
      down. Sometimes they could not find the name of the company at
      all; and they would wait until James or Roger or even Swithin
      came in, and ask them in voices trembling with curiosity how that
      “Bolivia Lime and Speltrate” was doing—they could not find it in
      the paper.

      And Roger would answer: “What do you want to know for? Some
      trash! You’ll go burning your fingers—investing your money in
      lime, and things you know nothing about! Who told you?” and
      ascertaining what they had been told, he would go away, and,
      making inquiries in the City, would perhaps invest some of his
      own money in the concern.

      It was about the middle of dinner, just in fact as the saddle of
      mutton had been brought in by Smither, that Mrs. MacAnder,
      looking airily round, said: “Oh! and whom do you think I passed
      to-day in Richmond Park? You’ll never guess—Mrs. Soames and—Mr.
      Bosinney. They must have been down to look at the house!”

      Winifred Dartie coughed, and no one said a word. It was the piece
      of evidence they had all unconsciously been waiting for.

      To do Mrs. MacAnder justice, she had been to Switzerland and the
      Italian lakes with a party of three, and had not heard of
      Soames’s rupture with his architect. She could not tell,
      therefore, the profound impression her words would make.

      Upright and a little flushed, she moved her small, shrewd eyes
      from face to face, trying to gauge the effect of her words. On
      either side of her a Hayman boy, his lean, taciturn, hungry face
      turned towards his plate, ate his mutton steadily.

      These two, Giles and Jesse, were so alike and so inseparable that
      they were known as the Dromios. They never talked, and seemed
      always completely occupied in doing nothing. It was popularly
      supposed that they were cramming for an important examination.
      They walked without hats for long hours in the Gardens attached
      to their house, books in their hands, a fox-terrier at their
      heels, never saying a word, and smoking all the time. Every
      morning, about fifty yards apart, they trotted down Campden Hill
      on two lean hacks, with legs as long as their own, and every
      morning about an hour later, still fifty yards apart, they
      cantered up again. Every evening, wherever they had dined, they
      might be observed about half-past ten, leaning over the
      balustrade of the Alhambra promenade.

      They were never seen otherwise than together; in this way passing
      their lives, apparently perfectly content.

      Inspired by some dumb stirring within them of the feelings of
      gentlemen, they turned at this painful moment to Mrs. MacAnder,
      and said in precisely the same voice: “Have you seen the...?”

      Such was her surprise at being thus addressed that she put down
      her fork; and Smither, who was passing, promptly removed her
      plate. Mrs. MacAnder, however, with presence of mind, said
      instantly: “I must have a little more of that nice mutton.”

      But afterwards in the drawing—room she sat down by Mrs. Small,
      determined to get to the bottom of the matter. And she began:

      “What a charming woman, Mrs. Soames; such a sympathetic
      temperament! Soames is a really lucky man!”

      Her anxiety for information had not made sufficient allowance for
      that inner Forsyte skin which refuses to share its troubles with
      outsiders.

      Mrs. Septimus Small, drawing herself up with a creak and rustle
      of her whole person, said, shivering in her dignity:

      “My dear, it is a subject we do not talk about!”




      CHAPTER II NIGHT IN THE PARK

      Although with her infallible instinct Mrs. Small had said the
      very thing to make her guest “more intriguee than ever,” it is
