Apparition, but this seemed to merely irritate Ron, 
and he shook her off by making a detour into the 
boys’ bathroom with Harry. 

“Snape’s right, though, isn’t he?” said Ron, after 
staring into a cracked mirror for a minute or two. “I 
dunno whether it’s worth me taking the test. I just 
can’t get the hang of Apparition.” 

“You might as well do the extra practice sessions in 
Hogsmeade and see where they get you,” said Harry 
reasonably. “It’ll be more interesting than trying to get 
into a stupid hoop anyway. Then, if you’re still not — 
you know — as good as you’d like to be, you can 
postpone the test, do it with me over the summ — 
Myrtle, this is the boys’ bathroom!” 

The ghost of a girl had risen out of the toilet in a 
cubicle behind them and was now floating in midair, 
staring at them through thick, white, round glasses. 

“Oh,” she said glumly. “It’s you two.” 

“Who were you expecting?” said Ron, looking at her in 
the mirror. 

“Nobody,” said Myrtle, picking moodily at a spot on 
her chin. “He said he’d come back and see me, but 
then you said you’d pop in and visit me too” — she 
gave Harry a reproachful look — “and I haven’t seen 
you for months and months. I’ve learned not to expect 
too much from boys.” 

“I thought you lived in that girls’ bathroom?” said 
Harry, who had been careful to give the place a wide 
berth for some years now. 



Page | 519 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I do,” she said, with a sulky little shrug, “but that 
doesn’t mean I can’t visit other places. I came and 
saw you in your bath once, remember?” 

“Vividly,” said Harry. 

“But I thought he liked me,” she said plaintively. 
“Maybe if you two left, he’d come back again. ... We 
had lots in common. ... I’m sure he felt it. ...” 

And she looked hopefully toward the door. 

“When you say you had lots in common,” said Ron, 
sounding rather amused now, “d’you mean he lives in 
an S-bend too?” 

“No,” said Myrtle defiantly, her voice echoing loudly 
around the old tiled bathroom. “I mean he’s sensitive, 
people bully him too, and he feels lonely and hasn’t 
got anybody to talk to, and he’s not afraid to show his 
feelings and cry!” 

“There’s been a boy in here crying?” said Harry 
curiously. “A young boy?” 

“Never you mind!” said Myrtle, her small, leaky eyes 
fixed on Ron, who was now definitely grinning. “I 
promised I wouldn’t tell anyone, and I’ll take his 
secret to the — ” 

“ — not the grave, surely?” said Ron with a snort. “The 
sewers, maybe ...” 

Myrtle gave a howl of rage and dived back into the 
toilet, causing water to slop over the sides and onto 
the floor. Goading Myrtle seemed to have put fresh 
heart into Ron. 



Page | 520 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re right,” he said, swinging his schoolbag back 
over his shoulder, “I’ll do the practice sessions in 
Hogsmeade before I decide about taking the test.” 

And so the following weekend, Ron joined Hermione 
and the rest of the sixth years who would turn 
seventeen in time to take the test in a fortnight. Harry 
felt rather jealous watching them all get ready to go 
into the village; he missed making trips there, and it 
was a particularly fine spring day, one of the first 
clear skies they had seen in a long time. However, he 
had decided to use the time to attempt another 
assault on the Room of Requirement. 

“You’d do better,” said Hermione, when he confided 
this plan to Ron and her in the entrance hall, “to go 
straight to Slughorn’s office and try and get that 
memory from him.” 

“I’ve been trying!” said Harry crossly, which was 
perfectly true. He had lagged behind after every 
Potions lesson that week in an attempt to corner 
Slughorn, but the Potions master always left the 
dungeon so fast that Harry had not been able to catch 
him. Twice, Harry had gone to his office and knocked, 
but received no reply, though on the second occasion 
he was sure he had heard the quickly stifled sounds 
of an old gramophone. 

“He doesn’t want to talk to me, Hermione! He can tell 
I’ve been trying to get him on his own again, and he’s 
not going to let it happen!” 

“Well, you’ve just got to keep at it, haven’t you?” 

The short queue of people waiting to file past Filch, 
who was doing his usual prodding act with the 
Secrecy Sensor, moved forward a few steps and Harry 
did not answer in case he was overheard by the 

Page | 521 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




caretaker. He wished Ron and Hermione both luck, 
then turned and climbed the marble staircase again, 
determined, whatever Hermione said, to devote an 
hour or two to the Room of Requirement. 

Once out of sight of the entrance hall, Harry pulled 
the Marauder’s Map and his Invisibility Cloak from 
his bag. Having concealed himself, he tapped the 
map, murmured, “ I solemnly swear that I am up to no 
good,” and scanned it carefully. 

As it was Sunday morning, nearly all the students 
were inside their various common rooms, the 
Gryffindors in one tower, the Ravenclaws in another, 
the Slytherins in the dungeons, and the Hufflepuffs in 
the basement near the kitchens. Here and there a 
stray person meandered around the library or up a 
corridor. . . . There were a few people out in the 
grounds ... and there, alone in the seventh-floor 
corridor, was Gregory Goyle. There was no sign of the 
Room of Requirement, but Harry was not worried 
about that; if Goyle was standing guard outside it, the 
room was open, whether the map was aware of it or 
not. He therefore sprinted up the stairs, slowing down 
only when he reached the corner into the corridor, 
when he began to creep, very slowly, toward the very 
same little girl, clutching her heavy brass scales, that 
Hermione had so kindly helped a fortnight before. He 
waited until he was right behind her before bending 
very low and whispering, “Hello ... you’re very pretty, 
aren’t you?” 

Goyle gave a high-pitched scream of terror, threw the 
scales up into the air, and sprinted away, vanishing 
from sight long before the sound of the scales 
smashing had stopped echoing around the corridor. 
Laughing, Harry turned to contemplate the blank wall 
behind which, he was sure, Draco Malfoy was now 
standing frozen, aware that someone unwelcome was 
Page | 522 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




out there, but not daring to make an appearance. It 
gave Harry a most agreeable feeling of power as he 
tried to remember what form of words he had not yet 
tried. 

Yet this hopeful mood did not last long. Half an hour 
later, having tried many more variations of his 
request to see what Malfoy was up to, the wall was 
just as doorless as ever. Harry felt frustrated beyond 
belief; Malfoy might be just feet away from him, and 
there was still not the tiniest shred of evidence as to 
what he was doing in there. Losing his patience 
completely, Harry ran at the wall and kicked it. 

“OUCH!” 

He thought he might have broken his toe; as he 
clutched it and hopped on one foot, the Invisibility 
Cloak slipped off him. 

“Harry?” 

He spun around, one-legged, and toppled over. There, 
to his utter astonishment, was Tonks, walking toward 
him as though she frequently strolled up this 
corridor. 

“What’re you doing here?” he said, scrambling to his 
feet again; why did she always have to find him lying 
on the floor? 

“I came to see Dumbledore,” said Tonks. 

Harry thought she looked terrible: thinner than 
usual, her mouse-colored hair lank. 

“His office isn’t here,” said Harry, “it’s round the other 
side of the castle, behind the gargoyle — ” 



Page | 523 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I know,” said Tonks. “He’s not there. Apparently he’s 
gone away again.” 

“Has he?” said Harry, putting his bruised foot gingerly 
back on the floor. “Hey — you don’t know where he 
goes, I suppose?” 

“No,” said Tonks. 

“What did you want to see him about?” 

“Nothing in particular,” said Tonks, picking, 
apparently unconsciously, at the sleeve of her robe. “I 
just thought he might know what’s going on. ... I’ve 
heard rumors ... people getting hurt ...” 

“Yeah, I know, it’s all been in the papers,” said Harry. 
“That little kid trying to kill his — ” 

“The Prophet’s often behind the times,” said Tonks, 
who didn’t seem to be listening to him. “You haven’t 
had any letters from anyone in the Order recently?” 

“No one from the Order writes to me anymore,” said 
Harry, “not since Sirius — ” 

He saw that her eyes had filled with tears. 

“I’m sorry,” he muttered awkwardly. “I mean ... I miss 
him, as well. ...” 

“What?” said Tonks blankly, as though she had not 
heard him. “Well ... I’ll see you around, Harry ...” 

And she turned abruptly and walked back down the 
corridor, leaving Harry to stare after her. After a 
minute or so, he pulled the Invisibility Cloak on again 
and resumed his efforts to get into the Room of 
Requirement, but his heart was not in it. Finally, a 
Page | 524 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




hollow feeling in his stomach and the knowledge that 
Ron and Hermione would soon be back for lunch 
made him abandon the attempt and leave the corridor 
to Malfoy who, hopefully, would be too afraid to leave 
for some hours to come. 

He found Ron and Hermione in the Great Hall, 
already halfway through an early lunch. 

“I did it — well, kind of!” Ron told Harry 
enthusiastically when he caught sight of him. “I was 
supposed to be Apparating to outside Madam 
Puddifoot’s Tea Shop and I overshot it a bit, ended up 
near Scrivenshaft’s, but at least I moved!” 

“Good one,” said Harry. “How’d you do, Hermione?” 

“Oh, she was perfect, obviously,” said Ron, before 
Hermione could answer. “Perfect deliberation, 
divination, and desperation or whatever the hell it is 
— we all went for a quick drink in the Three 
Broomsticks after and you should’ve heard Twycross 
going on about her — I’ll be surprised if he doesn’t 
pop the question soon — ” 

“And what about you?” asked Hermione, ignoring 
Ron. “Have you been up at the Room of Requirement 
all this time?” 

“Yep,” said Harry. “And guess who I ran into up 
there? Tonks!” 

“Tonks?” repeated Ron and Hermione together, 
looking surprised. 

“Yeah, she said she’d come to visit Dumbledore. ...” 

“If you ask me,” said Ron once Harry had finished 
describing his conversation with Tonks, “she’s 

Page | 525 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




cracking up a bit. Losing her nerve after what 
happened at the Ministry.” 

“It’s a bit odd,” said Hermione, who for some reason 
looked very concerned. “She’s supposed to be 
guarding the school, why’s she suddenly abandoning 
her post to come and see Dumbledore when he’s not 
even here?” 

“I had a thought,” said Harry tentatively. He felt 
strange about voicing it; this was much more 
Hermione’s territory than his. “You don’t think she 
can have been . . . you know ... in love with Sirius?” 

Hermione stared at him. 

“What on earth makes you say that?” 

“I dunno,” said Harry, shrugging, “but she was nearly 
crying when I mentioned his name . . . and her 
Patronus is a big four-legged thing now. ... I wondered 
whether it hadn’t become ... you know ... him.” 

“It’s a thought,” said Hermione slowly. “But I still 
don’t know why she’d be bursting into the castle to 
see Dumbledore, if that’s really why she was here. ...” 

“Goes back to what I said, doesn’t it?” said Ron, who 
was now shoveling mashed potato into his mouth. 
“She’s gone a bit funny. Lost her nerve. Women,” he 
said wisely to Harry, “they’re easily upset.” 

“And yet,” said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, “I 
doubt you’d find a woman who sulked for half an 
hour because Madam Rosmerta didn’t laugh at their 
joke about the hag, the Healer, and the Mimbulus 
mimbletonia.” 

Ron scowled. 

Page | 526 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






AFTER THE BURIAL 

Patches of bright blue sky were beginning to appear 
over the castle turrets, but these signs of approaching 
summer did not lift Harry’s mood. He had been 
thwarted, both in his attempts to find out what 
Malfoy was doing, and in his efforts to start a 
conversation with Slughorn that might lead, 
somehow, to Slughorn handing over the memory he 
had apparently suppressed for decades. 

“For the last time, just forget about Malfoy,” Hermione 
told Harry firmly. 

They were sitting with Ron in a sunny corner of the 
courtyard after lunch. Hermione and Ron were both 
clutching a Ministry of Magic leaflet — Common 
Apparition Mistakes and How to Avoid Them — for 
they were taking their tests that very afternoon, but 
by and large the leaflets had not proved soothing to 
the nerves. 



Page | 527 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



Ron gave a start and tried to hide behind Hermione as 
a girl came around the corner. 

“It isn’t Lavender,” said Hermione wearily. 

“Oh, good,” said Ron, relaxing. 

“Harry Potter?” said the girl. “I was asked to give you 
this.” 

“Thanks ...” 

Harry’s heart sank as he took the small scroll of 
parchment. Once the girl was out of earshot he said, 
“Dumbledore said we wouldn’t be having any more 
lessons until I got the memory!” 

“Maybe he wants to check on how you’re doing?” 
suggested Hermione, as Harry unrolled the 
parchment; but rather than finding Dumbledore ’s 
long, narrow, slanted writing he saw an untidy 
sprawl, very difficult to read due to the presence of 
large blotches on the parchment where the ink had 
run. 



Dear Harry, Ron, and Hermione, 

Aragog died last night Harry and Ron, you met him, 
and you know how special he was. Hermione, I know 
you’d have liked him. It would mean a lot to me if 
you’d nip down for the burial later this evening. I’m 
planning on doing it round dusk, that was his favorite 
time of day. I know you’re not supposed to be out that 
late, but you can use the cloak. Wouldn’t ask, but I 
can’t face it alone. 



Hagrid 

Page | 528 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Look at this,” said Harry, handing the note to 
Hermione. 

“Oh, for heaven’s sake,” she said, scanning it quickly 
and passing it to Ron, who read it through looking 
increasingly incredulous. 

“He’s mentaft” he said furiously. “That thing told its 
mates to eat Harry and me! Told them to help 
themselves! And now Hagrid expects us to go down 
there and cry over its horrible hairy body!” 

“It’s not just that,” said Hermione. “He’s asking us to 
leave the castle at night and he knows security’s a 
million times tighter and how much trouble we’d be in 
if we were caught.” 

“We’ve been down to see him by night before,” said 
Harry. 

“Yes, but for something like this?” said Hermione. 
“We’ve risked a lot to help Hagrid out, but after all — 
Aragog’s dead. If it were a question of saving him — ” 

“ — I’d want to go even less,” said Ron firmly. “You 
didn’t meet him, Hermione. Believe me, being dead 
will have improved him a lot.” 

Harry took the note back and stared down at all the 
inky blotches all over it. Tears had clearly fallen thick 
and fast upon the parchment. ... 

“Harry, you can’t be thinking of going,” said 
Hermione. “It’s such a pointless thing to get detention 
for.” 

Harry sighed. “Yeah, I know,” he said. “I s’pose 
Hagrid ’ll have to bury Aragog without us.” 



Page | 529 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, he will,” said Hermione, looking relieved. “Look, 
Potions will be almost empty this afternoon, with us 
all off doing our tests. ... Try and soften Slughorn up 
a bit then!” 

“Fifty-seventh time lucky, you think?” said Harry 
bitterly. 

“Lucky,” said Ron suddenly. “Harry, that’s it — get 
lucky!” 

“What d’you mean?” 

“Use your lucky potion!” 

“Ron, that’s — that’s it!” said Hermione, sounding 
stunned. “Of course! Why didn’t I think of it?” 

Harry stared at them both. “Felix Felicis?” he said. “I 
dunno ... I was sort of saving it. ...” 

“What for?” demanded Ron incredulously. 

“What on earth is more important than this memory, 
Harry?” asked Hermione. 

Harry did not answer. The thought of that little golden 
bottle had hovered on the edges of his imagination for 
some time; vague and unformulated plans that 
involved Ginny splitting up with Dean, and Ron 
somehow being happy to see her with a new 
boyfriend, had been fermenting in the depths of his 
brain, unacknowledged except during dreams or the 
twilight time between sleeping and waking. . . . 

“Harry? Are you still with us?” asked Hermione. 

“Wha — ? Yeah, of course,” he said, pulling himself 
together. “Well ... okay. If I can’t get Slughorn to talk 

Page | 530 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




this afternoon, I’ll take some Felix and have another 
go this evening.” 

“That’s decided, then,” said Hermione briskly, getting 
to her feet and performing a graceful pirouette. 
“Destination ... determination ... deliberation ...” she 
murmured. 

“Oh, stop that,” Ron begged her, “I feel sick enough as 
it is — quick, hide me!” 

“It isn’t Lavender!” said Hermione impatiently, as 
another couple of girls appeared in the courtyard and 
Ron dived behind her. 

“Cool,” said Ron, peering over Hermione’s shoulder to 
check. “Blimey, they don’t look happy, do they?” 

“They’re the Montgomery sisters and of course they 
don’t look happy, didn’t you hear what happened to 
their little brother?” said Hermione. 

“I’m losing track of what’s happening to everyone’s 
relatives, to be honest,” said Ron. 

“Well, their brother was attacked by a werewolf. The 
rumor is that their mother refused to help the Death 
Eaters. Anyway, the boy was only five and he died in 
St. Mungo’s, they couldn’t save him.” 

“He died?” repeated Harry, shocked. “But surely 
werewolves don’t kill, they just turn you into one of 
them?” 

“They sometimes kill,” said Ron, who looked 
unusually grave now. “I’ve heard of it happening 
when the werewolf gets carried away.” 

“What was the werewolf’s name?” said Harry quickly. 

Page | 531 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




“Well, the rumor is that it was that Fenrir Greyback,” 
said Hermione. 

“I knew it — the maniac who likes attacking kids, the 
one Lupin told me about!” said Harry angrily. 

Hermione looked at him bleakly. 

“Harry, you’ve got to get that memory,” she said. “It’s 
all about stopping Voldemort, isn’t it? These dreadful 
things that are happening are all down to him. ...” 

The bell rang overhead in the castle and both 
Hermione and Ron jumped to their feet, looking 
terrified. 

“You’ll do fine,” Harry told them both, as they headed 
toward the entrance hall to meet the rest of the people 
taking their Apparition Test. “Good luck.” 

“And you too!” said Hermione with a significant look, 
as Harry headed off to the dungeons. 

There were only three of them in Potions that 
afternoon: Harry, Ernie, and Draco Malfoy. 

“All too young to Apparate just yet?” said Slughorn 
genially. “Not turned seventeen yet?” 

They shook their heads. 

“Ah well,” said Slughorn cheerily, “as we’re so few, 
we’ll do something fun. I want you all to brew me up 
something amusing!” 

“That sounds good, sir,” said Ernie sycophantically, 
rubbing his hands together. Malfoy, on the other 
hand, did not crack a smile. 



Page | 532 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What do you mean, ‘something amusing?” he said 
irritably. 

“Oh, surprise me,” said Slughorn airily. 

Malfoy opened his copy of Advanced Potion-Making 
with a sulky expression. It could not have been 
plainer that he thought this lesson was a waste of 
time. Undoubtedly, Harry thought, watching him over 
the top of his own book, Malfoy was begrudging the 
time he could otherwise be spending in the Room of 
Requirement. 

Was it his imagination, or did Malfoy, like Tonks, look 
thinner? Certainly he looked paler; his skin still had 
that grayish tinge, probably because he so rarely saw 
daylight these days. But there was no air of 
smugness, excitement, or superiority; none of the 
swagger that he had had on the Hogwarts Express, 
when he had boasted openly of the mission he had 
been given by Voldemort. ... There could be only one 
conclusion, in Harry’s opinion: The mission, whatever 
it was, was going badly. 

Cheered by this thought, Harry skimmed through his 
copy of Advanced Potion-Making and found a heavily 
corrected Half-Blood Prince’s version of “An Elixir to 
Induce Euphoria,” which seemed not only to meet 
Slughorn ’s instructions, but which might (Harry’s 
heart leapt as the thought struck him) put Slughorn 
into such a good mood that he would be prepared to 
hand over that memory if Harry could persuade him 
to taste some. ... 

“Well, now, this looks absolutely wonderful,” said 
Slughorn an hour and a half later, clapping his hands 
together as he stared down into the sunshine yellow 
contents of Harry’s cauldron. “Euphoria, I take it? And 
what’s that I smell? Mmmm ... you’ve added just a 
Page | 533 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




sprig of peppermint, haven’t you? Unorthodox, but 
what a stroke of inspiration, Harry, of course, that 
would tend to counterbalance the occasional side 
effects of excessive singing and nose-tweaking. ... I 
really don’t know where you get these brain waves, 
my boy . . . unless — ” 

Harry pushed the Half-Blood Prince’s book deeper 
into his bag with his foot. 

“ — it’s just your mother’s genes coming out in you!” 

“Oh ... yeah, maybe,” said Harry, relieved. 

Ernie was looking rather grumpy; determined to 
outshine Harry for once, he had most rashly invented 
his own potion, which had curdled and formed a kind 
of purple dumpling at the bottom of his cauldron. 
Malfoy was already packing up, sour-faced; Slughorn 
had pronounced his Hiccuping Solution merely 
“passable.” 

The bell rang and both Ernie and Malfoy left at once. 

“Sir,” Harry began, but Slughorn immediately glanced 
over his shoulder; when he saw that the room was 
empty but for himself and Harry, he hurried away as 
fast as he could. 

“Professor — Professor, don’t you want to taste my po 
— ?” called Harry desperately. 

But Slughorn had gone. Disappointed, Harry emptied 
the cauldron, packed up his things, left the dungeon, 
and walked slowly back upstairs to the common 
room. 

Ron and Hermione returned in the late afternoon. 



Page | 534 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry!” cried Hermione as she climbed through the 
portrait hole. “Harry, I passed!” 

“Well done!” he said. “And Ron?” 

“He — he just failed,” whispered Hermione, as Ron 
came slouching into the room looking most morose. 
“It was really unlucky, a tiny thing, the examiner just 
spotted that he’d left half an eyebrow behind. ... How 
did it go with Slughorn?” 

“No joy,” said Harry, as Ron joined them. “Bad luck, 
mate, but you’ll pass next time — we can take it 
together.” 

“Yeah, I s’pose,” said Ron grumpily. “But half an 
eyebrow\ Like that matters!” 

“I know,” said Hermione soothingly, “it does seem 
really harsh. ...” 

They spent most of their dinner roundly abusing the 
Apparition examiner, and Ron looked fractionally 
more cheerful by the time they set off back to the 
common room, now discussing the continuing 
problem of Slughorn and the memory. 

“So, Harry — you going to use the Felix Felicis or 
what?” Ron demanded. 

“Yeah, I s’pose I’d better,” said Harry. “I don’t reckon 
I’ll need all of it, not twelve hours’ worth, it can’t take 
all night. ... I’ll just take a mouthful. Two or three 
hours should do it.” 

“It’s a great feeling when you take it,” said Ron 
reminiscently. “Like you can’t do anything wrong.” 



Page | 535 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What are you talking about?” said Hermione, 
laughing. “You’ve never taken any!” 

“Yeah, but I thought I had, didn’t I?” said Ron, as 
though explaining the obvious. “Same difference 
really ...” 

As they had only just seen Slughorn enter the Great 
Hall and knew that he liked to take time over meals, 
they lingered for a while in the common room, the 
plan being that Harry should go to Slughorn ’s office 
once the teacher had had time to get back there. 
When the sun had sunk to the level of the treetops in 
the Forbidden Forest, they decided the moment had 
come, and after checking carefully that Neville, Dean, 
and Seamus were all in the common room, sneaked 
up to the boys’ dormitory. 

Harry took out the rolled-up socks at the bottom of 
his trunk and extracted the tiny, gleaming bottle. 

“Well, here goes,” said Harry, and he raised the little 
bottle and took a carefully measured gulp. 

“What does it feel like?” whispered Hermione. 

Harry did not answer for a moment. Then, slowly but 
surely, an exhilarating sense of infinite opportunity 
stole through him; he felt as though he could have 
done anything, anything at all ... and getting the 
memory from Slughorn seemed suddenly not only 
possible, but positively easy. ... 

He got to his feet, smiling, brimming with confidence. 

“Excellent,” he said. “Really excellent. Right ... I’m 
going down to Hagrid’s.” 



Page | 536 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” said Ron and Hermione together, looking 
aghast. 

“No, Harry — you’ve got to go and see Slughorn, 
remember?” said Hermione. 

“No,” said Harry confidently. “I’m going to Hagrid’s, 

I’ve got a good feeling about going to Hagrid’s.” 

“You’ve got a good feeling about burying a giant 
spider?” asked Ron, looking stunned. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, pulling his Invisibility Cloak out of 
his bag. “I feel like it’s the place to be tonight, you 
know what I mean?” 

“No,” said Ron and Hermione together, both looking 
positively alarmed now. 

“This is Felix Felicis, I suppose?” said Hermione 
anxiously, holding up the bottle to the light. “You 
haven’t got another little bottle full of — I don’t know 



“Essence of Insanity?” suggested Ron, as Harry 
swung his cloak over his shoulders. 

Harry laughed, and Ron and Hermione looked even 
more alarmed. 

“Trust me,” he said. “I know what I’m doing ... or at 
least” — he strolled confidently to the door — “Felix 
does.” 

He pulled the Invisibility Cloak over his head and set 
off down the stairs, Ron and Hermione hurrying along 
behind him. At the foot of the stairs, Harry slid 
through the open door. 



Page | 537 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“What were you doing up there with her?” shrieked 
Lavender Brown, staring right through Harry at Ron 
and Hermione emerging together from the boys’ 
dormitories. Harry heard Ron spluttering behind him 
as he darted across the room away from them. 

Getting through the portrait hole was simple; as he 
approached it, Ginny and Dean came through it, and 
Harry was able to slip between them. As he did so, he 
brushed accidentally against Ginny. 

“Don’t push me, please, Dean,” she said, sounding 
annoyed. “You’re always doing that, I can get through 
perfectly well on my own. ...” 

The portrait swung closed behind Harry, but not 
before he had heard Dean make an angry retort. ... 

His feeling of elation increasing, Harry strode off 
through the castle. He did not have to creep along, for 
he met nobody on his way, but this did not surprise 
him in the slightest: This evening, he was the luckiest 
person at Hogwarts. 

Why he knew that going to Hagrid’s was the right 
thing to do, he had no idea. It was as though the 
potion was illuminating a few steps of the path at a 
time: He could not see the final destination, he could 
not see where Slughorn came in, but he knew that he 
was going the right way to get that memory. When he 
reached the entrance hall he saw that Filch had 
forgotten to lock the front door. Beaming, Harry threw 
it open and breathed in the smell of clean air and 
grass for a moment before walking down the steps 
into the dusk. 

It was when he reached the bottom step that it 
occurred to him how very pleasant it would be to pass 
the vegetable patch on his walk to Hagrid’s. It was not 
strictly on the way, but it seemed clear to Harry that 

Page | 538 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




this was a whim on which he should act, so he 
directed his feet immediately toward the vegetable 
patch, where he was pleased, but not altogether 
surprised, to find Professor Slughorn in conversation 
with Professor Sprout. Harry lurked behind a low 
stone wall, feeling at peace with the world and 
listening to their conversation. 

“I do thank you for taking the time, Pomona,” 
Slughorn was saying courteously, “most authorities 
agree that they are at their most efficacious if picked 
at twilight.” 

“Oh, I quite agree,” said Professor Sprout warmly. 
“That enough for you?” 

“Plenty, plenty,” said Slughorn, who, Harry saw, was 
carrying an armful of leafy plants. “This should allow 
for a few leaves for each of my third years, and some 
to spare if anybody over-stews them. ... Well, good 
evening to you, and many thanks again!” 

Professor Sprout headed off into the gathering 
darkness in the direction of her greenhouses, and 
Slughorn directed his steps to the spot where Harry 
stood, invisible. 

Seized with an immediate desire to reveal himself, 
Harry pulled off the cloak with a flourish. 

“Good evening, Professor.” 

“Merlin’s beard, Harry, you made me jump,” said 
Slughorn, stopping dead in his tracks and looking 
wary. “How did you get out of the castle?” 

“I think Filch must’ve forgotten to lock the doors,” 
said Harry cheerfully, and was delighted to see 
Slughorn scowl. 

Page | 539 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll be reporting that man, he’s more concerned about 
litter than proper security if you ask me. ... But why 
are you out here, Harry?” 

“Well, sir, it’s Hagrid,” said Harry, who knew that the 
right thing to do just now was to tell the truth. “He’s 
pretty upset. ... But you won’t tell anyone, Professor? 

I don’t want trouble for him. ...” 

Slughorn’s curiosity was evidently aroused. “Well, I 
can’t promise that,” he said gruffly. “But I know that 
Dumbledore trusts Hagrid to the hilt, so I’m sure he 
can’t be up to anything very dreadful. ...” 

“Well, it’s this giant spider, he’s had it for years. ... It 
lived in the forest. ... It could talk and everything — ” 

“I heard rumors there were acromantulas in the 
forest,” said Slughorn softly, looking over at the mass 
of black trees. “It’s true, then?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. “But this one, Aragog, the first one 
Hagrid ever got, it died last night. He’s devastated. He 
wants company while he buries it and I said I’d go.” 

“Touching, touching,” said Slughorn absentmindedly, 
his large droopy eyes fixed upon the distant lights of 
Hagrid ’s cabin. “But acromantula venom is very 
valuable ... If the beast only just died it might not yet 
have dried out. ... Of course, I wouldn’t want to do 
anything insensitive if Hagrid is upset . . . but if there 
was any way to procure some ... I mean, it’s almost 
impossible to get venom from an acromantula while 
it’s alive. ...” 

Slughorn seemed to be talking more to himself than 
Harry now. 



Page | 540 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




"... seems an awful waste not to collect it ... might get 
a hundred Galleons a pint. ... To be frank, my salary 
is not large. ...” 

And now Harry saw clearly what was to be done. 

“Well,” he said, with a most convincing hesitancy, 
“well, if you wanted to come, Professor, Hagrid would 
probably be really pleased. ... Give Aragog a better 
send-off, you know ...” 

“Yes, of course,” said Slughorn, his eyes now 
gleaming with enthusiasm. “I tell you what, Harry, I’ll 
meet you down there with a bottle or two. ... We’ll 
drink the poor beast’s — well — not health — but 
we’ll send it off in style, anyway, once it’s buried. And 
I’ll change my tie, this one is a little exuberant for the 
occasion. ...” 
