Weasley could give ’em a run fer their money.” 

“You’d have thought Black and Potter were brothers!” 
chimed in Professor Flitwick. “Inseparable!” 

“Of course they were,” said Fudge. “Potter trusted 
Black beyond all his other friends. Nothing changed 
when they left school. Black was best man when 

Page | 227 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




James married Lily. Then they named him godfather 
to Harry. Harry has no idea, of course. You can 
imagine how the idea would torment him.” 

“Because Black turned out to be in league with You- 
Know-Who?” whispered Madam Rosmerta. 

“Worse even than that, m’dear. ...” Fudge dropped his 
voice and proceeded in a sort of low rumble. “Not 
many people are aware that the Potters knew You- 
Know-Who was after them. Dumbledore, who was of 
course working tirelessly against You-Know-Who, had 
a number of useful spies. One of them tipped him off, 
and he alerted James and Lily at once. He advised 
them to go into hiding. Well, of course, You-Know- 
Who wasn’t an easy person to hide from. Dumbledore 
told them that their best chance was the Fidelius 
Charm.” 

“How does that work?” said Madam Rosmerta, 
breathless with interest. Professor Flitwick cleared his 
throat. 

“An immensely complex spell,” he said squeakily, 
“involving the magical concealment of a secret inside 
a single, living soul. The information is hidden inside 
the chosen person, or Secret-Keeper, and is 
henceforth impossible to find — unless, of course, the 
Secret-Keeper chooses to divulge it. As long as the 
Secret-Keeper refused to speak, You-Know-Who could 
search the village where Lily and James were staying 
for years and never find them, not even if he had his 
nose pressed against their sitting room window!” 

“So Black was the Potters’ Secret-Keeper?” whispered 
Madam Rosmerta. 

“Naturally,” said Professor McGonagall. “James Potter 
told Dumbledore that Black would die rather than tell 

Page | 228 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




where they were, that Black was planning to go into 
hiding himself . . . and yet, Dumbledore remained 
worried. I remember him offering to be the Potters’ 
Secret-Keeper himself.” 

“He suspected Black?” gasped Madam Rosmerta. 

“He was sure that somebody close to the Potters had 
been keeping You-Know-Who informed of their 
movements,” said Professor McGonagall darkly. 
“Indeed, he had suspected for some time that 
someone on our side had turned traitor and was 
passing a lot of information to You-Know-Who.” 

“But James Potter insisted on using Black?” 

“He did,” said Fudge heavily. “And then, barely a week 
after the Fidelius Charm had been performed — ” 

“Black betrayed them?” breathed Madam Rosmerta. 

“He did indeed. Black was tired of his double-agent 
role, he was ready to declare his support openly for 
You-Know-Who, and he seems to have planned this 
for the moment of the Potters’ death. But, as we all 
know, You-Know-Who met his downfall in little Harry 
Potter. Powers gone, horribly weakened, he fled. And 
this left Black in a very nasty position indeed. His 
master had fallen at the very moment when he, Black, 
had shown his true colors as a traitor. He had no 
choice but to run for it — ” 

“Filthy, stinkin’ turncoat!” Hagrid said, so loudly that 
half the bar went quiet. 

“Shh!” said Professor McGonagall. 

“I met him!” growled Hagrid. “I musta bin the last ter 
see him before he killed all them people! It was me 

Page | 229 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




what rescued Harry from Lily an’ James’s house after 
they was killed! Jus’ got him outta the ruins, poor 
little thing, with a great slash across his forehead, an’ 
his parents dead ... an’ Sirius Black turns up, on that 
flyin’ motorbike he used ter ride. Never occurred ter 
me what he was doin’ there. I didn’ know he’d bin Lily 
an’ James’s Secret-Keeper. Thought he’d jus’ heard 
the news o’ You- Know- Who’s attack an’ come ter see 
what he could do. White an’ shakin’, he was. An’ yeh 
know what I did? I COMFORTED THE MURDERIN’ 
TRAITOR!” Hagrid roared. 

“Hagrid, please!” said Professor McGonagall. “Keep 
your voice down!” 

“How was I ter know he wasn’ upset abou’ Lily an’ 
James? It was You-Know-Who he cared abou’! An’ 
then he says, ‘Give Harry ter me, Hagrid, I’m his 
godfather, I’ll look after him — ’ Ha! But I’d had me 
orders from Dumbledore, an’ I told Black no, 
Dumbledore said Harry was ter go ter his aunt an’ 
uncle’s. Black argued, but in the end he gave in. Told 
me ter take his motorbike ter get Harry there. ‘I won’t 
need it anymore,’ he says. 

“I shoulda known there was somethin’ fishy goin’ on 
then. He loved that motorbike, what was he givin’ it 
ter me for? Why wouldn’ he need it anymore? Fact 
was, it was too easy ter trace. Dumbledore knew he’d 
bin the Potters’ Secret-Keeper. Black knew he was 
goin’ ter have ter run fer it that night, knew it was a 
matter o’ hours before the Ministry was after him. 

“But what if I’d given Harry to him, eh? I bet he ’d’ve 
pitched him off the bike halfway out ter sea. His bes’ 
friends’ son! But when a wizard goes over ter the Dark 
Side, there’s nothin’ and no one that matters to ’em 
anymore. ...” 



Page | 230 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




A long silence followed Hagrid ’s story. Then Madam 
Rosmerta said with some satisfaction, “But he didn’t 
manage to disappear, did he? The Ministry of Magic 
caught up with him next day!” 

“Alas, if only we had,” said Fudge bitterly. “It was not 
we who found him. It was little Peter Pettigrew — 
another of the Potters’ friends. Maddened by grief, no 
doubt, and knowing that Black had been the Potters’ 
Secret-Keeper, he went after Black himself.” 

“Pettigrew . . . that fat little boy who was always 
tagging around after them at Hogwarts?” said Madam 
Rosmerta. 

“Hero-worshipped Black and Potter,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “Never quite in their league, talent-wise. 

I was often rather sharp with him. You can imagine 
how I — how I regret that now. ...” She sounded as 
though she had a sudden head cold. 

“There, now, Minerva,” said Fudge kindly, “Pettigrew 
died a hero’s death. Eyewitnesses — Muggles, of 
course, we wiped their memories later — told us how 
Pettigrew cornered Black. They say he was sobbing, 
“Lily and James, Sirius! How could you?’ And then he 
went for his wand. Well, of course, Black was quicker. 
Blew Pettigrew to smithereens. ...” 

Professor McGonagall blew her nose and said thickly, 
“Stupid boy . . . foolish boy ... he was always hopeless 
at dueling ... should have left it to the Ministry. ...” 

“I tell yeh, if I’d got ter Black before little Pettigrew 
did, I wouldn’t’ve messed around with wands — I’d’ve 
ripped him limb — from — limb,” Hagrid growled. 

“You don’t know what you’re talking about, Hagrid,” 
said Fudge sharply. “Nobody but trained Hit Wizards 

Page | 231 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




from the Magical Law Enforcement Squad would have 
stood a chance against Black once he was cornered. I 
was Junior Minister in the Department of Magical 
Catastrophes at the time, and I was one of the first on 
the scene after Black murdered all those people. I — I 
will never forget it. I still dream about it sometimes. A 
crater in the middle of the street, so deep it had 
cracked the sewer below. Bodies everywhere. Muggles 
screaming. And Black standing there laughing, with 
what was left of Pettigrew in front of him ... a heap of 
bloodstained robes and a few — a few fragments — ” 

Fudge’s voice stopped abruptly. There was the sound 
of five noses being blown. 

“Well, there you have it, Rosmerta,” said Fudge 
thickly. “Black was taken away by twenty members of 
the Magical Law Enforcement Squad and Pettigrew 
received the Order of Merlin, First Class, which I 
think was some comfort to his poor mother. Black’s 
been in Azkaban ever since.” 

Madam Rosmerta let out a long sigh. 

“Is it true he’s mad, Minister?” 

“I wish I could say that he was,” said Fudge slowly. “I 
certainly believe his master’s defeat unhinged him for 
a while. The murder of Pettigrew and all those 
Muggles was the action of a cornered and desperate 
man — cruel ... pointless. Yet I met Black on my last 
inspection of Azkaban. You know, most of the 
prisoners in there sit muttering to themselves in the 
dark; there’s no sense in them ... but I was shocked 
at how normal Black seemed. He spoke quite 
rationally to me. It was unnerving. You’d have 
thought he was merely bored — asked if I’d finished 
with my newspaper, cool as you please, said he 
missed doing the crossword. Yes, I was astounded at 
Page | 232 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




how little effect the dementors seemed to be having on 
him — and he was one of the most heavily guarded in 
the place, you know. Dementors outside his door day 
and night.” 

“But what do you think he’s broken out to do?” said 
Madam Rosmerta. “Good gracious, Minister, he isn’t 
trying to rejoin You-Know-Who, is he?” 

“I daresay that is his — er — eventual plan,” said 
Fudge evasively. “But we hope to catch Black long 
before that. I must say, You-Know-Who alone and 
friendless is one thing . . . but give him back his most 
devoted servant, and I shudder to think how quickly 
he’ll rise again. ...” 

There was a small chink of glass on wood. Someone 
had set down their glass. 

“You know, Cornelius, if you’re dining with the 
headmaster, we’d better head back up to the castle,” 
said Professor McGonagall. 

One by one, the pairs of feet in front of Harry took the 
weight of their owners once more; hems of cloaks 
swung into sight, and Madam Rosemerta’s glittering 
heels disappeared behind the bar. The door of the 
Three Broomsticks opened again, there was another 
flurry of snow, and the teachers had disappeared. 

“Harry?” 

Ron’s and Hermione’s faces appeared under the table. 
They were both staring at him, lost for words. 



Page | 233 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






THE FIREBOLT 

Harry didn’t have a very clear idea of how he had 
managed to get back into the Honeydukes cellar, 
through the tunnel, and into the castle once more. All 
he knew was that the return trip seemed to take no 
time at all, and that he hardly noticed what he was 
doing, because his head was still pounding with the 
conversation he had just heard. 

Why had nobody ever told him? Dumbledore, Hagrid, 
Mr. Weasley, Cornelius Fudge ... why hadn’t anyone 
ever mentioned the fact that Harry’s parents had died 
because their best friend had betrayed them? 

Ron and Hermione watched Harry nervously all 
through dinner, not daring to talk about what they’d 
overheard, because Percy was sitting close by them. 
When they went upstairs to the crowded common 
room, it was to find Fred and George had set off half a 
dozen Dungbombs in a fit of end-of-term high spirits. 
Harry, who didn’t want Fred and George asking him 
whether he’d reached Hogsmeade or not, sneaked 
quietly up to the empty dormitory and headed 
Page | 234 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



straight for his bedside cabinet. He pushed his books 
aside and quickly found what he was looking for — 
the leather-bound photo album Hagrid had given him 
two years ago, which was full of wizard pictures of his 
mother and father. He sat down on his bed, drew the 
hangings around him, and started turning the pages, 
searching, until ... 

He stopped on a picture of his parents’ wedding day. 
There was his father waving up at him, beaming, the 
untidy black hair Harry had inherited standing up in 
all directions. There was his mother, alight with 
happiness, arm in arm with his dad. And there ... 
that must be him. Their best man ... Harry had never 
given him a thought before. 

If he hadn’t known it was the same person, he would 
never have guessed it was Black in this old 
photograph. His face wasn’t sunken and waxy, but 
handsome, full of laughter. Had he already been 
working for Voldemort when this picture had been 
taken? Was he already planning the deaths of the two 
people next to him? Did he realize he was facing 
twelve years in Azkaban, twelve years that would 
make him unrecognizable? 

But the dementors don’t affect him, Harry thought, 
staring into the handsome, laughing face. He doesn’t 
have to hear my mum screaming if they get too close — 

Harry slammed the album shut, reached over and 
stuffed it back into his cabinet, took off his robe and 
glasses and got into bed, making sure the hangings 
were hiding him from view. 

The dormitory door opened. 

“Harry?” said Ron’s voice uncertainly. 



Page | 235 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




But Harry lay still, pretending to be asleep. He heard 
Ron leave again, and rolled over on his back, his eyes 
wide open. 

A hatred such as he had never known before was 
coursing through Harry like poison. He could see 
Black laughing at him through the darkness, as 
though somebody had pasted the picture from the 
album over his eyes. He watched, as though 
somebody was playing him a piece of film, Sirius 
Black blasting Peter Pettigrew (who resembled Neville 
Longbottom) into a thousand pieces. He could hear 
(though having no idea what Black’s voice might 
sound like) a low, excited mutter. “It has happened, 
My Lord . . . the Potters have made me their Secret- 
Keeper. ...” And then came another voice, laughing 
shrilly, the same laugh that Harry heard inside his 
head whenever the dementors drew near. . . . 

“Harry, you — you look terrible.” 

Harry hadn’t gotten to sleep until daybreak. He had 
awoken to find the dormitory deserted, dressed, and 
gone down the spiral staircase to a common room 
that was completely empty except for Ron, who was 
eating a Peppermint Toad and massaging his 
stomach, and Hermione, who had spread her 
homework over three tables. 

“Where is everyone?” said Harry. 

“Gone! It’s the first day of the holidays, remember?” 
said Ron, watching Harry closely. “It’s nearly 
lunchtime; I was going to come and wake you up in a 
minute.” 

Harry slumped into a chair next to the fire. Snow was 
still falling outside the windows. Crookshanks was 
spread out in front of the fire like a large, ginger rug. 

Page | 236 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You really don’t look well, you know,” Hermione said, 
peering anxiously into his face. 

“I’m fine,” said Harry. 

“Harry, listen,” said Hermione, exchanging a look with 
Ron, “you must be really upset about what we heard 
yesterday. But the thing is, you mustn’t go doing 
anything stupid.” 

“Like what?” said Harry. 

“Like trying to go after Black,” said Ron sharply. 

Harry could tell they had rehearsed this conversation 
while he had been asleep. He didn’t say anything. 

“You won’t, will you, Harry?” said Hermione. 

“Because Black’s not worth dying for,” said Ron. 

Harry looked at them. They didn’t seem to 
understand at all. 

“D’you know what I see and hear every time a 
dementor gets too near me?” Ron and Hermione 
shook their heads, looking apprehensive. “I can hear 
my mum screaming and pleading with Voldemort. 

And if you’d heard your mum screaming like that, 
just about to be killed, you wouldn’t forget it in a 
hurry. And if you found out someone who was 
supposed to be a friend of hers betrayed her and sent 
Voldemort after her — ” 

“There’s nothing you can do!” said Hermione, looking 
stricken. “The dementors will catch Black and he’ll go 
back to Azkaban and — and serve him right!” 



Page | 237 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You heard what Fudge said. Black isn’t affected by 
Azkaban like normal people are. It’s not a 
punishment for him like it is for the others.” 

“So what are you saying?” said Ron, looking very 
tense. “You want to — to kill Black or something?” 

“Don’t be silly,” said Hermione in a panicky voice. 
“Harry doesn’t want to kill anyone, do you, Harry?” 

Again, Harry didn’t answer. He didn’t know what he 
wanted to do. All he knew was that the idea of doing 
nothing, while Black was at liberty, was almost more 
than he could stand. 

“Malfoy knows,” he said abruptly. “Remember what 
he said to me in Potions? ‘If it was me, I’d hunt him 
down myself. ... I’d want revenge.’ ” 

“You’re going to take Malfoy ’s advice instead of ours?” 
said Ron furiously. “Listen ... you know what 
Pettigrew’s mother got back after Black had finished 
with him? Dad told me — the Order of Merlin, First 
Class, and Pettigrew’s finger in a box. That was the 
biggest bit of him they could find. Black’s a madman, 
Harry, and he’s dangerous — ” 

“Malfoy’s dad must have told him,” said Harry, 
ignoring Ron. “He was right in Voldemort’s inner 
circle — ” 

“ Say You-Knotu-Who, will you?” interjected Ron 
angrily. 

“ — so obviously, the Malfoys knew Black was working 
for Voldemort — ” 

“ — and Malfoy’d love to see you blown into about a 
million pieces, like Pettigrew! Get a grip. Malfoy’s just 

Page | 238 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




hoping you 11 get yourself killed before he has to play 
you at Quidditch.” 

“Harry, please,” said Hermione, her eyes now shining 
with tears, “please be sensible. Black did a terrible, 
terrible thing, but d-don’t put yourself in danger, it’s 
what Black wants. ... Oh, Harry, you’d be playing 
right into Black’s hands if you went looking for him. 
Your mum and dad wouldn’t want you to get hurt, 
would they? They’d never want you to go looking for 
Black!” 

“I’ll never know what they’d have wanted, because 
thanks to Black, I’ve never spoken to them,” said 
Harry shortly. 

There was a silence in which Crookshanks stretched 
luxuriously, flexing his claws. Ron’s pocket quivered. 

“Look,” said Ron, obviously casting around for a 
change of subject, “it’s the holidays! It’s nearly 
Christmas! Let’s — let’s go down and see Hagrid. We 
haven’t visited him for ages!” 

“No!” said Hermione quickly. “Harry isn’t supposed to 
leave the castle, Ron — ” 

“Yeah, let’s go,” said Harry, sitting up, “and I can ask 
him how come he never mentioned Black when he 
told me all about my parents!” 

Further discussion of Sirius Black plainly wasn’t 
what Ron had had in mind. 

“Or we could have a game of chess,” he said hastily, 
“or Gobstones. Percy left a set — ” 

“No, let’s visit Hagrid,” said Harry firmly. 



Page | 239 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




So they got their cloaks from their dormitories and set 
off through the portrait hole (“Stand and fight, you 
yellow-bellied mongrels!”), down through the empty 
castle and out through the oak front doors. 

They made their way slowly down the lawn, making a 
shallow trench in the glittering, powdery snow, their 
socks and the hems of their cloaks soaked and 
freezing. The Forbidden Forest looked as though it 
had been enchanted, each tree smattered with silver, 
and Hagrid’s cabin looked like an iced cake. 

Ron knocked, but there was no answer. 

“He’s not out, is he?” said Hermione, who was 
shivering under her cloak. 

Ron had his ear to the door. 

“There’s a weird noise,” he said. “Listen — is that 
Fang?” 

Harry and Hermione put their ears to the door too. 
From inside the cabin came a series of low, throbbing 
moans. 

“Think we’d better go and get someone?” said Ron 
nervously. 

“Hagrid!” called Harry, thumping the door. “Hagrid, 
are you in there?” 

There was a sound of heavy footsteps, then the door 
creaked open. Hagrid stood there with his eyes red 
and swollen, tears splashing down the front of his 
leather vest. 

“Yeh’ve heard?” he bellowed, and he flung himself 
onto Harry’s neck. 

Page | 240 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid being at least twice the size of a normal man, 
this was no laughing matter. Harry, about to collapse 
under Hagrid’s weight, was rescued by Ron and 
Hermione, who each seized Hagrid under an arm and 
heaved him back into the cabin. Hagrid allowed 
himself to be steered into a chair and slumped over 
the table, sobbing uncontrollably, his face glazed with 
tears that dripped down into his tangled beard. 

“Hagrid, what is it?” said Hermione, aghast. 

Harry spotted an official-looking letter lying open on 
the table. 

“What’s this, Hagrid?” 

Hagrid’s sobs redoubled, but he shoved the letter 
toward Harry, who picked it up and read aloud: 

Dear Mr. Hagrid, 

Further to our inquiry into the attack by a hippogriff on 
a student in your class, we have accepted the 
assurances of Professor Dumbledore that you bear no 
responsibility for the regrettable incident. 

“Well, that’s okay then, Hagrid!” said Ron, clapping 
Hagrid on the shoulder. But Hagrid continued to sob, 
and waved one of his gigantic hands, inviting Harry to 
read on. 

However, we must register our concern about the 
hippogriff in question. We have decided to uphold the 
official complaint of Mr. Lucius Malfoy, and this matter 
will therefore be taken to the Committee for the 
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. The hearing will take 
place on April 20th, and we ask you to present 
yourself and your hippogriff at the Committee’s offices 



Page | 241 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




in London on that date. In the meantime, the hippogriff 
should be kept tethered and isolated. 

Yours in fellowship ... 

There followed a list of the school governors. 

“Oh,” said Ron. “But you said Buckbeak isn’t a bad 
hippogriff, Hagrid. I bet he’ll get off — ” 

“Yeh don’ know them gargoyles at the Committee fer 
the Disposal o’ Dangerous Creatures!” choked Hagrid, 
wiping his eyes on his sleeve. “They’ve got it in fer 
interestin’ creatures!” 

A sudden sound from the corner of Hagrid ’s cabin 
made Harry, Ron, and Hermione whip around. 
Buckbeak the hippogriff was lying in the corner, 
chomping on something that was oozing blood all over 
the floor. 

“I couldn’ leave him tied up out there in the snow!” 
choked Hagrid. “All on his own! At Christmas.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another. 

They had never seen eye to eye with Hagrid about 
what he called “interesting creatures” and other 
people called “terrifying monsters.” On the other 
hand, there didn’t seem to be any particular harm in 
Buckbeak. In fact, by Hagrid’s usual standards, he 
was positively cute. 

“You’ll have to put up a good strong defense, Hagrid,” 
said Hermione, sitting down and laying a hand on 
Hagrid’s massive forearm. “I’m sure you can prove 
Buckbeak is safe.” 



Page | 242 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Won’t make no difference!” sobbed Hagrid. “Them 
Disposal devils, they’re all in Lucius Malfoy’s pocket! 
Scared o’ him! An’ if I lose the case, Buckbeak — ” 

Hagrid drew his finger swiftly across his throat, then 
gave a great wail and lurched forward, his face in his 
arms. 

“What about Dumbledore, Hagrid?” said Harry. 

“He’s done more’n enough fer me already,” groaned 
Hagrid. “Got enough on his plate what with keepin’ 
them dementors outta the castle, an’ Sirius Black 
lurkin’ around — ” 

Ron and Hermione looked quickly at Harry, as though 
expecting him to start berating Hagrid for not telling 
him the truth about Black. But Harry couldn’t bring 
himself to do it, not now that he saw Hagrid so 
miserable and scared. 

“Listen, Hagrid,” he said, “you can’t give up. 
Hermione’s right, you just need a good defense. You 
can call us as witnesses — ” 

“I’m sure I’ve read about a case of hippogriff-baiting,” 
said Hermione thoughtfully, “where the hippogriff got 
off. I’ll look it up for you, Hagrid, and see exactly what 
happened.” 

Hagrid howled still more loudly. Harry and Hermione 
looked at Ron to help them. 

“Er — shall I make a cup of tea?” said Ron. 

Harry stared at him. 

“It’s what my mum does whenever someone’s upset,” 
Ron muttered, shrugging. 

Page | 243 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




At last, after many more assurances of help, with a 
steaming mug of tea in front of him, Hagrid blew his 
nose on a handkerchief the size of a tablecloth and 
said, “Yer right. I can’ afford to go ter pieces. Gotta 
pull meself together. ...” 

Fang the boarhound came timidly out from under the 
table and laid his head on Hagrid ’s knee. 

“I’ve not bin meself lately,” said Hagrid, stroking Fang 
with one hand and mopping his face with the other. 
“Worried abou’ Buckbeak, an’ no one likin’ me classes 



“We do like them!” lied Hermione at once. 

“Yeah, they’re great!” said Ron, crossing his fingers 
under the table. “Er — how are the flobberworms?” 

“Dead,” said Hagrid gloomily. “Too much lettuce.” 

“Oh no!” said Ron, his lip twitching. 

“An’ them dementors make me feel ruddy terrible an’ 
all,” said Hagrid, with a sudden shudder. “Gotta walk 
past ’em ev’ry time I want a drink in the Three 
Broomsticks. ’S like bein’ back in Azkaban — ” 

He fell silent, gulping his tea. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione watched him breathlessly. They had never 
heard Hagrid talk about his brief spell in Azkaban 
before. After a pause, Hermione said timidly, “Is it 
awful in there, Hagrid?” 

“Yeh’ve no idea,” said Hagrid quietly. “Never bin 
anywhere like it. Thought I was goin’ mad. Kep’ goin’ 
over horrible stuff in me mind . . . the day I got 
expelled from Hogwarts . . . day me dad died . . . day I 
had ter let Norbert go. ...” 

Page | 244 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




His eyes filled with tears. Norbert was the baby 
dragon Hagrid had once won in a game of cards. 



“Yeh can’ really remember who yeh are after a while. 
An’ yeh can’ see the point o’ livin’ at all. I used ter 
hope I’d jus’ die in me sleep. ... When they let me out, 
it was like bein’ born again, ev’rythin’ came floodin’ 
back, it was the bes’ feelin’ in the world. Mind, the 
dementors weren’t keen on lettin’ me go.” 

“But you were innocent!” said Hermione. 

Hagrid snorted. 

“Think that matters to them? They don’ care. Long as 
they’ve got a couple o’ hundred humans stuck there 
with ’em, so they can leech all the happiness out of 
’em, they don’ give a damn who’s guilty an’ who’s 
not.” 

Hagrid went quiet for a moment, staring into his tea. 
Then he said quietly, “Thought o’ jus’ letting 
Buckbeak go ... tryin’ ter make him fly away ... but 
how d’yeh explain ter a hippogriff it’s gotta go inter 
hidin’? An’ — an’ I’m scared o’ breakin’ the law. ...” He 
looked up at them, tears leaking down his face again. 
“I don’ ever want ter go back ter Azkaban.” 

The trip to Hagrid’s, though far from fun, had 
nevertheless had the effect Ron and Hermione had 
hoped. Though Harry had by no means forgotten 
about Black, he couldn’t brood constantly on revenge 
if he wanted to help Hagrid win his case against the 
Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. 
He, Ron, and Hermione went to the library the next 
day and returned to the empty common room laden 
with books that might help prepare a defense for 
Buckbeak. The three of them sat in front of the 
roaring fire, slowly turning the pages of dusty 
Page | 245 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




volumes about famous cases of marauding beasts, 
speaking occasionally when they ran across 
something relevant. 

“Here’s something ... there was a case in 1722 ... but 
the hippogriff was convicted — ugh, look what they 
did to it, that’s disgusting — ” 

“This might help, look — a manticore savaged 
someone in 1296, and they let the manticore off — oh 
— no, that was only because everyone was too scared 
to go near it. ...” 

Meanwhile, in the rest of the castle, the usual 
magnificent Christmas decorations had been put up, 
despite the fact that hardly any of the students 
remained to enjoy them. Thick streamers of holly and 
mistletoe were strung along the corridors, mysterious 
lights shone from inside every suit of armor, and the 
Great Hall was filled with its usual twelve Christmas 
trees, glittering with golden stars. A powerful and 
delicious smell of cooking pervaded the corridors, and 
by Christmas Eve, it had grown so strong that even 
Scabbers poked his nose out of the shelter of Ron’s 
pocket to sniff hopefully at the air. 

On Christmas morning, Harry was woken by Ron 
throwing his pillow at him. 

“Oy! Presents!” 

Harry reached for his glasses and put them on, 
squinting through the semi-darkness to the foot of his 
bed, where a small heap of parcels had appeared. Ron 
was already ripping the paper off his own presents. 

“Another sweater from Mum . . . maroon again . . . see if 
you’ve got one.” 



Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had. Mrs. Weasley had sent him a scarlet 
sweater with the Gryffindor lion knitted on the front, 
also a dozen home-baked mince pies, some Christmas 
cake, and a box of nut brittle. As he moved all these 
things aside, he saw a long, thin package lying 
underneath. 

“What’s that?” said Ron, looking over, a freshly 
unwrapped pair of maroon socks in his hand. 

“Dunno ...” 

Harry ripped the parcel open and gasped as a 
magnificent, gleaming broomstick rolled out onto his 
bedspread. Ron dropped his socks and jumped off his 
bed for a closer look. 

“I don’t believe it,” he said hoarsely. 

It was a Firebolt, identical to the dream broom Harry 
had gone to see every day in Diagon Alley. Its handle 
glittered as he picked it up. He could feel it vibrating 
and let go; it hung in midair, unsupported, at exactly 
the right height for him to mount it. His eyes moved 
from the golden registration number at the top of the 
handle, right down to the perfectly smooth, 
streamlined birch twigs that made up the tail. 

“Who sent it to you?” said Ron in a hushed voice. 

“Look and see if there’s a card,” said Harry. 

Ron ripped apart the Firebolt’s wrappings. 

“Nothing! Blimey, who’d spend that much on you?” 

“Well,” said Harry, feeling stunned, “I’m betting it 
wasn’t the Dursleys.” 



Page | 247 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I bet it was Dumbledore,” said Ron, now walking 
around and around the Firebolt, taking in every 
glorious inch. “He sent you the Invisibility Cloak 
anonymously. ...” 

“That was my dad’s, though,” said Harry. 
“Dumbledore was just passing it on to me. He 
wouldn’t spend hundreds of Galleons on me. He can’t 
go giving students stuff like this — ” 

“That’s why he wouldn’t say it was from him!” said 
Ron. “In case some git like Malfoy said it was 
favoritism. Hey, Harry” — Ron gave a great whoop of 
laughter — “Malfoyl Wait till he sees you on this! He’ll 
be sick as a pig! This is an international standard 
broom, this is!” 

“I can’t believe this,” Harry muttered, running a hand 
along the Firebolt, while Ron sank onto Harry’s bed, 
laughing his head off at the thought of Malfoy. “ Who 
— ?” 

“I know,” said Ron, controlling himself, “I know who it 
could’ve been — Lupin!” 

“What?” said Harry, now starting to laugh himself. 
“Lupin? Listen, if he had this much gold, he’d be able 
to buy himself some new robes.” 

“Yeah, but he likes you,” said Ron. “And he was away 
when your Nimbus got smashed, and he might’ve 
heard about it and decided to visit Diagon Alley and 
get this for you — ” 

“What d’you mean, he was away?” said Harry. “He 
was ill when I was playing in that match.” 



Page | 248 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, he wasn’t in the hospital wing,” said Ron. “I 
was there, cleaning out the bedpans on that detention 
from Snape, remember?” 

Harry frowned at Ron. 

“I can’t see Lupin affording something like this.” 

“What ’re you two laughing about?” 

Hermione had just come in, wearing her dressing 
gown and carrying Crookshanks, who was looking 
very grumpy, with a string of tinsel tied around his 
neck. 

“Don’t bring him in here!” said Ron, hurriedly 
snatching Scabbers from the depths of his bed and 
stowing him in his pajama pocket. But Hermione 
wasn’t listening. She dropped Crookshanks onto 
Seamus’s empty bed and stared, open-mouthed, at 
the Firebolt. 

“Oh, Harry\ Who sent you that?” 

“No idea,” said Harry. “There wasn’t a card or 
anything with it.” 

To his great surprise, Hermione did not appear either 
excited or intrigued by the news. On the contrary, her 
face fell, and she bit her lip. 

“What’s the matter with you?” said Ron. 

“I don’t know,” said Hermione slowly, “but it’s a bit 
odd, isn’t it? I mean, this is supposed to be quite a 
good broom, isn’t it?” 

Ron sighed exasperatedly. 



Page | 249 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s the best broom there is, Hermione,” he said. 

“So it must’ve been really expensive. ...” 

“Probably cost more than all the Slytherins’ brooms 
