      it in his pocket, but he wouldn’t show it us.”

      Aunt Juley was silent, ruminating. The clock ticked, _The Times_
      crackled, the fire sent forth its rustling purr. Aunt Juley
      dropped another stitch.

      “Hester,” she said, “I have had such a dreadful thought.”

      “Then don’t tell me,” said Aunt Hester quickly.

      “Oh! but I must. You can’t think how dreadful!” Her voice sank to
      a whisper:

      “Jolyon—Jolyon, they say, has a—has a fair beard, now.”




      CHAPTER XII PROGRESS OF THE CHASE


      Two days after the dinner at James’, Mr. Polteed provided Soames
      with food for thought.

      “A gentleman,” he said, consulting the key concealed in his left
      hand, “47 as we say, has been paying marked attention to 17
      during the last month in Paris. But at present there seems to
      have been nothing very conclusive. The meetings have all been in
      public places, without concealment—restaurants, the Opera, the
      Comique, the Louvre, Luxembourg Gardens, lounge of the hotel, and
      so forth. She has not yet been traced to his rooms, nor _vice
      versa_. They went to Fontainebleau—but nothing of value. In
      short, the situation is promising, but requires patience.” And,
      looking up suddenly, he added:

      “One rather curious point—47 has the same name as—er—31!”

      “The fellow knows I’m her husband,” thought Soames.

      “Christian name—an odd one—Jolyon,” continued Mr. Polteed. “We
      know his address in Paris and his residence here. We don’t wish,
      of course, to be running a wrong hare.”

      “Go on with it, but be careful,” said Soames doggedly.

      Instinctive certainty that this detective fellow had fathomed his
      secret made him all the more reticent.

      “Excuse me,” said Mr. Polteed, “I’ll just see if there’s anything
      fresh in.”

      He returned with some letters. Relocking the door, he glanced at
      the envelopes.

      “Yes, here’s a personal one from 19 to myself.”

      “Well?” said Soames.

      “Um!” said Mr. Polteed, “she says: ‘47 left for England to-day.
      Address on his baggage: Robin Hill. Parted from 17 in Louvre
      Gallery at 3.30; nothing very striking. Thought it best to stay
      and continue observation of 17. You will deal with 47 in England
      if you think desirable, no doubt.’” And Mr. Polteed lifted an
      unprofessional glance on Soames, as though he might be storing
      material for a book on human nature after he had gone out of
      business. “Very intelligent woman, 19, and a wonderful make-up.
      Not cheap, but earns her money well. There’s no suspicion of
      being shadowed so far. But after a time, as you know, sensitive
      people are liable to get the feeling of it, without anything
      definite to go on. I should rather advise letting-up on 17, and
      keeping an eye on 47. We can’t get at correspondence without
      great risk. I hardly advise that at this stage. But you can tell
      your client that it’s looking up very well.” And again his
      narrowed eyes gleamed at his taciturn customer.

      “No,” said Soames suddenly, “I prefer that you should keep the
      watch going discreetly in Paris, and not concern yourself with
      this end.”

      “Very well,” replied Mr. Polteed, “we can do it.”

      “What—what is the manner between them?”

      “I’ll read you what she says,” said Mr. Polteed, unlocking a
      bureau drawer and taking out a file of papers; “she sums it up
      somewhere confidentially. Yes, here it is! ‘17 very
      attractive—conclude 47, longer in the tooth’ (slang for age, you
      know)—‘distinctly gone—waiting his time—17 perhaps holding off
      for terms, impossible to say without knowing more. But inclined
      to think on the whole—doesn’t know her mind—likely to act on
      impulse some day. Both have style.’”

      “What does that mean?” said Soames between close lips.

      “Well,” murmured Mr. Polteed with a smile, showing many white
      teeth, “an expression we use. In other words, it’s not likely to
      be a weekend business—they’ll come together seriously or not at
      all.”

      “H’m!” muttered Soames, “that’s all, is it?”

      “Yes,” said Mr. Polteed, “but quite promising.”

      “Spider!” thought Soames. “Good-day!”

      He walked into the Green Park that he might cross to Victoria
      Station and take the Underground into the City. For so late in
      January it was warm; sunlight, through the haze, sparkled on the
      frosty grass—an illumined cobweb of a day.

      Little spiders—and great spiders! And the greatest spinner of
      all, his own tenacity, for ever wrapping its cocoon of threads
      round any clear way out. What was that fellow hanging round Irene
      for? Was it really as Polteed suggested? Or was Jolyon but taking
      compassion on her loneliness, as he would call it—sentimental
      radical chap that he had always been? If it were, indeed, as
      Polteed hinted! Soames stood still. It could not be! The fellow
      was seven years older than himself, no better looking! No richer!
      What attraction had he?

      “Besides, he’s come back,” he thought; “that doesn’t look—I’ll go
      and see him!” and, taking out a card, he wrote:

      “If you can spare half an hour some afternoon this week, I shall
      be at the Connoisseurs any day between 5.30 and 6, or I could
      come to the Hotch Potch if you prefer it. I want to see you.—S.
      F.”

      He walked up St. James’s Street and confided it to the porter at
      the Hotch Potch.

      “Give Mr. Jolyon Forsyte this as soon as he comes in,” he said,
      and took one of the new motor cabs into the City....

      Jolyon received that card the same afternoon, and turned his face
      towards the Connoisseurs. What did Soames want now? Had he got
      wind of Paris? And stepping across St. James’s Street, he
      determined to make no secret of his visit. “But it won’t do,” he
      thought, “to let him know _she’s_ there, unless he knows
      already.” In this complicated state of mind he was conducted to
      where Soames was drinking tea in a small bay-window.

      “No tea, thanks,” said Jolyon, “but I’ll go on smoking if I may.”

      The curtains were not yet drawn, though the lamps outside were
      lighted; the two cousins sat waiting on each other.

      “You’ve been in Paris, I hear,” said Soames at last.

      “Yes; just back.”

      “Young Val told me; he and your boy are going off, then?” Jolyon
      nodded.

      “You didn’t happen to see Irene, I suppose. It appears she’s
      abroad somewhere.”

      Jolyon wreathed himself in smoke before he answered: “Yes, I saw
      her.”

      “How was she?”

      “Very well.”

      There was another silence; then Soames roused himself in his
      chair.

      “When I saw you last,” he said, “I was in two minds. We talked,
      and you expressed your opinion. I don’t wish to reopen that
      discussion. I only wanted to say this: My position with her is
      extremely difficult. I don’t want you to go using your influence
      against me. What happened is a very long time ago. I’m going to
      ask her to let bygones be bygones.”

      “You have asked her, you know,” murmured Jolyon.

      “The idea was new to her then; it came as a shock. But the more
      she thinks of it, the more she must see that it’s the only way
      out for both of us.”

      “That’s not my impression of her state of mind,” said Jolyon with
      particular calm. “And, forgive my saying, you misconceive the
      matter if you think reason comes into it at all.”

      He saw his cousin’s pale face grow paler—he had used, without
      knowing it, Irene’s own words.

      “Thanks,” muttered Soames, “but I see things perhaps more plainly
      than you think. I only want to be sure that you won’t try to
      influence her against me.”

      “I don’t know what makes you think I have any influence,” said
      Jolyon; “but if I have I’m bound to use it in the direction of
      what I think is her happiness. I am what they call a ‘feminist,’
      I believe.”

      “Feminist!” repeated Soames, as if seeking to gain time. “Does
      that mean that you’re against me?”

      “Bluntly,” said Jolyon, “I’m against any woman living with any
      man whom she definitely dislikes. It appears to me rotten.”

      “And I suppose each time you see her you put your opinions into
      her mind.”

      “I am not likely to be seeing her.”

      “Not going back to Paris?”

      “Not so far as I know,” said Jolyon, conscious of the intent
      watchfulness in Soames’ face.

      “Well, that’s all I had to say. Anyone who comes between man and
      wife, you know, incurs heavy responsibility.”

      Jolyon rose and made him a slight bow.

      “Good-bye,” he said, and, without offering to shake hands, moved
      away, leaving Soames staring after him. “We Forsytes,” thought
      Jolyon, hailing a cab, “are very civilised. With simpler folk
      that might have come to a row. If it weren’t for my boy going to
      the war....” The war! A gust of his old doubt swept over him. A
      precious war! Domination of peoples or of women! Attempts to
      master and possess those who did not want you! The negation of
      gentle decency! Possession, vested rights; and anyone ‘agin’
      ’em—outcast! “Thank Heaven!” he thought, “_I always_ felt ‘agin’
      ’em, anyway!” Yes! Even before his first disastrous marriage he
      could remember fuming over the bludgeoning of Ireland, or the
      matrimonial suits of women trying to be free of men they loathed.
      Parsons would have it that freedom of soul and body were quite
      different things! Pernicious doctrine! Body and soul could not
      thus be separated. Free will was the strength of any tie, and not
      its weakness. “I ought to have told Soames,” he thought, “that I
      think him comic. Ah! but he’s tragic, too!” Was there anything,
      indeed, more tragic in the world than a man enslaved by his own
      possessive instinct, who couldn’t see the sky for it, or even
      enter fully into what another person felt! “I must write and warn
      her,” he thought; “he’s going to have another try.” And all the
      way home to Robin Hill he rebelled at the strength of that duty
      to his son which prevented him from posting back to Paris....

      But Soames sat long in his chair, the prey of a no less gnawing
      ache—a jealous ache, as if it had been revealed to him that this
      fellow held precedence of himself, and had spun fresh threads of
      resistance to his way out. “Does that mean that you’re against
      me?” he had got nothing out of that disingenuous question.
      Feminist! Phrasey fellow! “I mustn’t rush things,” he thought. “I
      have some breathing space; he’s not going back to Paris, unless
      he was lying. I’ll let the spring come!” Though how the spring
      could serve him, save by adding to his ache, he could not tell.
      And gazing down into the street, where figures were passing from
      pool to pool of the light from the high lamps, he thought:
      “Nothing seems any good—nothing seems worth while. I’m
      lonely—that’s the trouble.”

      He closed his eyes; and at once he seemed to see Irene, in a dark
      street below a church—passing, turning her neck so that he caught
      the gleam of her eyes and her white forehead under a little dark
      hat, which had gold spangles on it and a veil hanging down
      behind. He opened his eyes—so vividly he had seen her! A woman
      _was_ passing below, but not she! Oh no, there was nothing there!




      CHAPTER XIII “HERE WE ARE AGAIN!”


      Imogen’s frocks for her first season exercised the judgment of
      her mother and the purse of her grandfather all through the month
      of March. With Forsyte tenacity Winifred quested for perfection.
      It took her mind off the slowly approaching rite which would give
      her a freedom but doubtfully desired; took her mind, too, off her
      boy and his fast approaching departure for a war from which the
      news remained disquieting. Like bees busy on summer flowers, or
      bright gadflies hovering and darting over spiky autumn blossoms,
      she and her “little daughter,” tall nearly as herself and with a
      bust measurement not far inferior, hovered in the shops of Regent
      Street, the establishments of Hanover Square and of Bond Street,
      lost in consideration and the feel of fabrics. Dozens of young
      women of striking deportment and peculiar gait paraded before
      Winifred and Imogen, draped in “creations.” The models—“Very new,
      modom; quite the latest thing—” which those two reluctantly
      turned down, would have filled a museum; the models which they
      were obliged to have nearly emptied James’ bank. It was no good
      doing things by halves, Winifred felt, in view of the need for
      making this first and sole untarnished season a conspicuous
      success. Their patience in trying the patience of those
      impersonal creatures who swam about before them could alone have
      been displayed by such as were moved by faith. It was for
      Winifred a long prostration before her dear goddess Fashion,
      fervent as a Catholic might make before the Virgin; for Imogen an
      experience by no means too unpleasant—she often looked so nice,
      and flattery was implicit everywhere: in a word it was “amusing.”

      On the afternoon of the 20th of March, having, as it were, gutted
      Skywards, they had sought refreshment over the way at Caramel and
      Baker’s, and, stored with chocolate frothed at the top with
      cream, turned homewards through Berkeley Square of an evening
      touched with spring. Opening the door—freshly painted a light
      olive-green; nothing neglected that year to give Imogen a good
      send-off—Winifred passed towards the silver basket to see if
      anyone had called, and suddenly her nostrils twitched. What was
      that scent?

      Imogen had taken up a novel sent from the library, and stood
      absorbed. Rather sharply, because of the queer feeling in her
      breast, Winifred said:

      “Take that up, dear, and have a rest before dinner.”

      Imogen, still reading, passed up the stairs. Winifred heard the
      door of her room slammed to, and drew a long savouring breath.
      Was it spring tickling her senses—whipping up nostalgia for her
      “clown,” against all wisdom and outraged virtue? A male scent! A
      faint reek of cigars and lavender-water not smelt since that
      early autumn night six months ago, when she had called him “the
      limit.” Whence came it, or was it ghost of scent—sheer emanation
      from memory? She looked round her. Nothing—not a thing, no
      tiniest disturbance of her hall, nor of the diningroom. A little
      day-dream of a scent—illusory, saddening, silly! In the silver
      basket were new cards, two with “Mr. and Mrs. Polegate Thom,” and
      one with “Mr. Polegate Thom” thereon; she sniffed them, but they
      smelled severe. “I must be tired,” she thought, “I’ll go and lie
      down.” Upstairs the drawing-room was darkened, waiting for some
      hand to give it evening light; and she passed on up to her
      bedroom. This, too, was half-curtained and dim, for it was six
      o’clock. Winifred threw off her coat—that scent again!—then
      stood, as if shot, transfixed against the bed-rail. Something
      dark had risen from the sofa in the far corner. A word of
      horror—in her family—escaped her: “God!”

      “It’s I—Monty,” said a voice.

      Clutching the bed-rail, Winifred reached up and turned the switch
      of the light hanging above her dressing-table. He appeared just
      on the rim of the light’s circumference, emblazoned from the
      absence of his watch-chain down to boots neat and sooty brown,
      but—yes!—split at the toecap. His chest and face were shadowy.
      Surely he was thin—or was it a trick of the light? He advanced,
      lighted now from toe-cap to the top of his dark head—surely a
      little grizzled! His complexion had darkened, sallowed; his black
      moustache had lost boldness, become sardonic; there were lines
      which she did not know about his face. There was no pin in his
      tie. His suit—ah!—she knew that—but how unpressed, unglossy! She
      stared again at the toe-cap of his boot. Something big and
      relentless had been “at him,” had turned and twisted, raked and
      scraped him. And she stayed, not speaking, motionless, staring at
      that crack across the toe.

      “Well!” he said, “I got the order. I’m back.”

      Winifred’s bosom began to heave. The nostalgia for her husband
      which had rushed up with that scent was struggling with a deeper
      jealousy than any she had felt yet. There he was—a dark, and as
      if harried, shadow of his sleek and brazen self! What force had
      done this to him—squeezed him like an orange to its dry rind!
      That woman!

      “I’m back,” he said again. “I’ve had a beastly time. By God! I
      came steerage. I’ve got nothing but what I stand up in, and that
      bag.”

      “And who has the rest?” cried Winifred, suddenly alive. “How
      dared you come? You knew it was just for divorce that you got
      that order to come back. Don’t touch me!”

      They held each to the rail of the big bed where they had spent so
      many years of nights together. Many times, yes—many times she had
      wanted him back. But now that he had come she was filled with
      this cold and deadly resentment. He put his hand up to his
      moustache; but did not frizz and twist it in the old familiar
      way, he just pulled it downwards.

      “Gad!” he said: “If you knew the time I’ve had!”

      “I’m glad I don’t!”

      “Are the kids all right?”

      Winifred nodded. “How did you get in?”

      “With my key.”

      “Then the maids don’t know. You can’t stay here, Monty.”

      He uttered a little sardonic laugh.

      “Where then?”

      “Anywhere.”

      “Well, look at me! That—that damned....”

      “If you mention _her_,” cried Winifred, “I go straight out to
      Park Lane and I don’t come back.”

      Suddenly he did a simple thing, but so uncharacteristic that it
      moved her. He shut his eyes. It was as if he had said: “All
      right! I’m dead to the world!”

      “You can have a room for the night,” she said; “your things are
      still here. Only Imogen is at home.”

      He leaned back against the bed-rail. “Well, it’s in your hands,”
      and his own made a writhing movement. “I’ve been through it. You
      needn’t hit too hard—it isn’t worth while. I’ve been frightened;
      I’ve been frightened, Freddie.”

      That old pet name, disused for years and years, sent a shiver
      through Winifred.

      “What am I to do with him?” she thought. “What in God’s name am I
      to do with him?”

      “Got a cigarette?”

      She gave him one from a little box she kept up there for when she
      couldn’t sleep at night, and lighted it. With that action the
      matter-of-fact side of her nature came to life again.

      “Go and have a hot bath. I’ll put some clothes out for you in the
      dressing-room. We can talk later.”

      He nodded, and fixed his eyes on her—they looked half-dead, or
      was it that the folds in the lids had become heavier?

      “He’s not the same,” she thought. He would never be quite the
      same again! But what would he be?

      “All right!” he said, and went towards the door. He even moved
      differently, like a man who has lost illusion and doubts whether
      it is worth while to move at all.

      When he was gone, and she heard the water in the bath running,
      she put out a complete set of garments on the bed in his
      dressing-room, then went downstairs and fetched up the biscuit
      box and whisky. Putting on her coat again, and listening a moment
      at the bathroom door, she went down and out. In the street she
      hesitated. Past seven o’clock! Would Soames be at his Club or at
      Park Lane? She turned towards the latter. Back!

      Soames had always feared it—she had sometimes hoped it.... Back!
      So like him—clown that he was—with this: “Here we are again!” to
      make fools of them all—of the Law, of Soames, of herself!

      Yet to have done with the Law, not to have that murky cloud
      hanging over her and the children! What a relief! Ah! but how to
      accept his return? That “woman” had ravaged him, taken from him
      passion such as he had never bestowed on herself, such as she had
      not thought him capable of. There was the sting! That selfish,
      blatant “clown” of hers, whom she herself had never really
      stirred, had been swept and ungarnished by another woman!
      Insulting! Too insulting! Not right, not decent to take him back!
      And yet she had asked for him; the Law perhaps would make her
      now! He was as much her husband as ever—she had put herself out
      of court! And all he wanted, no doubt, was money—to keep him in
      cigars and lavender-water! That scent! “After all, I’m not old,”
      she thought, “not old yet!” But that woman who had reduced him to
      those words: “I’ve been through it. I’ve been
      frightened—frightened, Freddie!” She neared her father’s house,
      driven this way and that, while all the time the Forsyte undertow
      was drawing her to deep conclusion that after all he was her
      property, to be held against a robbing world. And so she came to
      James’.

      “Mr. Soames? In his room? I’ll go up; don’t say I’m here.”

      Her brother was dressing. She found him before a mirror, tying a
      black bow with an air of despising its ends.

      “Hullo!” he said, contemplating her in the glass; “what’s wrong?”

      “Monty!” said Winifred stonily.

      Soames spun round. “What!”

      “Back!”

      “Hoist,” muttered Soames, “with our own petard. Why the deuce
      didn’t you let me try cruelty? I always knew it was too much risk
      this way.”

      “Oh! Don’t talk about that! What shall I do?”

      Soames answered, with a deep, deep sound.

      “Well?” said Winifred impatiently.

      “What has he to say for himself?”

      “Nothing. One of his boots is split across the toe.”

      Soames stared at her.

      “Ah!” he said, “of course! On his beam ends. So—it begins again!
      This’ll about finish father.”

      “Can’t we keep it from him?”

      “Impossible. He has an uncanny flair for anything that’s
      worrying.”

      And he brooded, with fingers hooked into his blue silk braces.
      “There ought to be some way in law,” he muttered, “to make him
      safe.”

      “No,” cried Winifred, “I won’t be made a fool of again; I’d
      sooner put up with him.”

      The two stared at each other. Their hearts were full of feeling,
      but they could give it no expression—Forsytes that they were.

      “Where did you leave him?”

      “In the bath,” and Winifred gave a little bitter laugh. “The only
      thing he’s brought back is lavender-water.”

      “Steady!” said Soames, “you’re thoroughly upset. I’ll go back
      with you.”

      “What’s the use?”

      “We ought to make terms with him.”

      “Terms! It’ll always be the same. When he recovers—cards and
      betting, drink and...!” She was silent, remembering the look on
      her husband’s face. The burnt child—the burnt child. Perhaps...!

      “Recovers?” replied Soames: “Is he ill?”

      “No; burnt out; that’s all.”

      Soames took his waistcoat from a chair and put it on, he took his
      coat and got into it, he scented his handkerchief with
      eau-de-Cologne, threaded his watch-chain, and said: “We haven’t
      any luck.”

      And in the midst of her own trouble Winifred was sorry for him,
      as if in that little saying he had revealed deep trouble of his
      own.

      “I’d like to see mother,” she said.

      “She’ll be with father in their room. Come down quietly to the
      study. I’ll get her.”

      Winifred stole down to the little dark study, chiefly remarkable
      for a Canaletto too doubtful to be placed elsewhere, and a fine
      collection of Law Reports unopened for many years. Here she
      stood, with her back to maroon-coloured curtains close-drawn,
      staring at the empty grate, till her mother came in followed by
      Soames.

      “Oh! my poor dear!” said Emily: “How miserable you look in here!
      This is too bad of him, really!”

      As a family they had so guarded themselves from the expression of
      all unfashionable emotion that it was impossible to go up and
      give her daughter a good hug. But there was comfort in her
      cushioned voice, and her still dimpled shoulders under some rare
      black lace. Summoning pride and the desire not to distress her
      mother, Winifred said in her most off-hand voice:

      “It’s all right, Mother; no good fussing.”

      “I don’t see,” said Emily, looking at Soames, “why Winifred
      shouldn’t tell him that she’ll prosecute him if he doesn’t keep
      off the premises. He took her pearls; and if he’s not brought
      them back, that’s quite enough.”

      Winifred smiled. They would all plunge about with suggestions of
      this and that, but she knew already what she would be doing, and
      that was—nothing. The feeling that, after all, she had won a sort
      of victory, retained her property, was every moment gaining
      ground in her. No! if she wanted to punish him, she could do it
      at home without the world knowing.

      “Well,” said Emily, “come into the dining-room comfortably—you
      must stay and have dinner with us. Leave it to me to tell your
      father.” And, as Winifred moved towards the door, she turned out
      the light. Not till then did they see the disaster in the
      corridor.

      There, attracted by light from a room never lighted, James was
      standing with his duncoloured camel-hair shawl folded about him,
      so that his arms were not free and his silvered head looked cut
      off from his fashionably trousered legs as if by an expanse of
      desert. He stood, inimitably stork-like, with an expression as if
      he saw before him a frog too large to swallow.

      “What’s all this?” he said. “Tell your father? You never tell me
      anything.”

      The moment found Emily without reply. It was Winifred who went up
      to him, and, laying one hand on each of his swathed, helpless
      arms, said:

      “Monty’s not gone bankrupt, Father. He’s only come back.”

      They all three expected something serious to happen, and were
      glad she had kept that grip of his arms, but they did not know
      the depth of root in that shadowy old Forsyte. Something wry
      occurred about his shaven mouth and chin, something scratchy
      between those long silvery whiskers. Then he said with a sort of
      dignity: “He’ll be the death of me. I knew how it would be.”

      “You mustn’t worry, Father,” said Winifred calmly. “I mean to
      make him behave.”

      “Ah!” said James. “Here, take this thing off, I’m hot.” They
      unwound the shawl. He turned, and walked firmly to the
      dining-room.

      “I don’t want any soup,” he said to Warmson, and sat down in his
      chair. They all sat down too, Winifred still in her hat, while
      Warmson laid the fourth place. When he left the room, James said:
      “What’s he brought back?”

      “Nothing, Father.”

      James concentrated his eyes on his own image in a tablespoon.
      “Divorce!” he muttered; “rubbish! What was I about? I ought to
      have paid him an allowance to stay out of England. Soames you go
      and propose it to him.”

      It seemed so right and simple a suggestion that even Winifred was
      surprised when she said: “No, I’ll keep him now he’s back; he
      must just behave—that’s all.”

      They all looked at her. It had always been known that Winifred
      had pluck.

      “Out there!” said James elliptically, “who knows what
      cut-throats! You look for his revolver! Don’t go to bed without.
      You ought to have Warmson to sleep in the house. I’ll see him
      myself tomorrow.”

      They were touched by this declaration, and Emily said
      comfortably: “That’s right, James, we won’t have any nonsense.”

      “Ah!” muttered James darkly, “I can’t tell.”

      The advent of Warmson with fish diverted conversation.

      When, directly after dinner, Winifred went over to kiss her
      father good-night, he looked up with eyes so full of question and
      distress that she put all the comfort she could into her voice.

      “It’s all right, Daddy, dear; don’t worry. I shan’t need
      anyone—he’s quite bland. I shall only be upset if you worry.
      Good-night, bless you!”

      James repeated the words, “Bless you!” as if he did not quite
      know what they meant, and his eyes followed her to the door.

      She reached home before nine, and went straight upstairs.

      Dartie was lying on the bed in his dressing-room, fully redressed
      in a blue serge suit and pumps; his arms were crossed behind his
      head, and an extinct cigarette drooped from his mouth.

      Winifred remembered ridiculously the flowers in her window-boxes
      after a blazing summer day; the way they lay, or rather
      stood—parched, yet rested by the sun’s retreat. It was as if a
      little dew had come already on her burnt-up husband.

      He said apathetically: “I suppose you’ve been to Park Lane. How’s
      the old man?”

      Winifred could not help the bitter answer: “Not dead.”

      He winced, actually he winced.

      “Understand, Monty,” she said, “I will _not_ have him worried. If
      you aren’t going to behave yourself, you may go back, you may go
      anywhere. Have you had dinner?”

      No.

      “Would you like some?”

      He shrugged his shoulders.

      “Imogen offered me some. I didn’t want any.”

      Imogen! In the plenitude of emotion Winifred had forgotten her.

      “So you’ve seen her? What did she say?”

      “She gave me a kiss.”

      With mortification Winifred saw his dark sardonic face relaxed.
      “Yes!” she thought, “he cares for her, not for me a bit.”

      Dartie’s eyes were moving from side to side.

      “Does she know about me?” he said.

      It flashed through Winifred that here was the weapon she needed.
      _He minded their knowing!_

      “No. Val knows. The others don’t; they only know you went away.”

      She heard him sigh with relief.

      “But they _shall_ know,” she said firmly, “if you give me cause.”

      “All right!” he muttered, “hit me! I’m down!”

      Winifred went up to the bed. “Look here, Monty! I don’t want to
      hit you. I don’t want to hurt you. I shan’t allude to anything.
      I’m not going to worry. What’s the use?” She was silent a moment.
      “I can’t stand any more, though, and I won’t! You’d better know.
      You’ve made me suffer. But I used to be fond of you. For the sake
      of that....” She met the heavy-lidded gaze of his brown eyes with
      the downward stare of her green-grey eyes; touched his hand
      suddenly, turned her back, and went into her room.

      She sat there a long time before her glass, fingering her rings,
      thinking of this subdued dark man, almost a stranger to her, on
      the bed in the other room; resolutely not “worrying,” but gnawed
      by jealousy of what he had been through, and now and again just
      visited by pity.




      CHAPTER XIV OUTLANDISH NIGHT


      Soames doggedly let the spring come—no easy task for one
      conscious that time was flying, his birds in the bush no nearer
      the hand, no issue from the web anywhere visible. Mr. Polteed
      reported nothing, except that his watch went on—costing a lot of
      money. Val and his cousin were gone to the war, whence came news
      more favourable; Dartie was behaving himself so far; James had
      retained his health; business prospered almost terribly—there was
      nothing to worry Soames except that he was “held up,” could make
      no step in any direction.

      He did not exactly avoid Soho, for he could not afford to let
      them think that he had “piped off,” as James would have put it—he
      might want to “pipe on” again at any minute. But he had to be so
      restrained and cautious that he would often pass the door of the
      Restaurant Bretagne without going in, and wander out of the
      purlieus of that region which always gave him the feeling of
      having been possessively irregular.

      He wandered thus one May night into Regent Street and the most
      amazing crowd he had ever seen; a shrieking, whistling, dancing,
      jostling, grotesque and formidably jovial crowd, with false noses
      and mouth-organs, penny whistles and long feathers, every
      appanage of idiocy, as it seemed to him. Mafeking! Of course, it
      had been relieved! Good! But was that an excuse? Who were these
      people, what were they, where had they come from into the West
      End? His face was tickled, his ears whistled into. Girls cried:
      “Keep your hair on, stucco!” A youth so knocked off his top-hat
      that he recovered it with difficulty. Crackers were exploding
      beneath his nose, between his feet. He was bewildered,
      exasperated, offended. This stream of people came from every
      quarter, as if impulse had unlocked flood-gates, let flow waters
      of whose existence he had heard, perhaps, but believed in never.
      This, then, was the populace, the innumerable living negation of
      gentility and Forsyteism. This was—egad!—Democracy! It stank,
      yelled, was hideous! In the East End, or even Soho, perhaps—but
      here in Regent Street, in Piccadilly! What were the police about!
      In 1900, Soames, with his Forsyte thousands, had never seen the
      cauldron with the lid off; and now looking into it, could hardly
      believe his scorching eyes. The whole thing was unspeakable!
      These people had no restraint, they seemed to think him funny;
      such swarms of them, rude, coarse, laughing—and what laughter!

      Nothing sacred to them! He shouldn’t be surprised if they began
      to break windows. In Pall Mall, past those august dwellings, to
      enter which people paid sixty pounds, this shrieking, whistling,
      dancing dervish of a crowd was swarming. From the Club windows
      his own kind were looking out on them with regulated amusement.
      They didn’t realise! Why, this was serious—might come to
      anything! The crowd was cheerful, but some day they would come in
      different mood! He remembered there had been a mob in the late
      eighties, when he was at Brighton; they had smashed things and
      made speeches. But more than dread, he felt a deep surprise. They
      were hysterical—it wasn’t English! And all about the relief of a
      little town as big as—Watford, six thousand miles away.
      Restraint, reserve! Those qualities to him more dear almost than
      life, those indispensable attributes of property and culture,
      where were they? It wasn’t English! No, it wasn’t English! So
      Soames brooded, threading his way on. It was as if he had
      suddenly caught sight of someone cutting the covenant “for quiet
      possession” out of his legal documents; or of a monster lurking
      and stalking out in the future, casting its shadow before. Their
      want of stolidity, their want of reverence! It was like
      discovering that nine-tenths of the people of England were
      foreigners. And if that were so—then, anything might happen!

      At Hyde Park Corner he ran into George Forsyte, very sunburnt
      from racing, holding a false nose in his hand.

      “Hallo, Soames!” he said, “have a nose!”

      Soames responded with a pale smile.

      “Got this from one of these sportsmen,” went on George, who had
      evidently been dining; “had to lay him out—for trying to bash my
      hat. I say, one of these days we shall have to fight these chaps,
      they’re getting so damned cheeky—all radicals and socialists.
      They want our goods. You tell Uncle James that, it’ll make him
      sleep.”

      “_In vino veritas_,” thought Soames, but he only nodded, and
      passed on up Hamilton Place. There was but a trickle of
      roysterers in Park Lane, not very noisy. And looking up at the
      houses he thought: “After all, we’re the backbone of the country.
      They won’t upset us easily. Possession’s nine points of the law.”

      But, as he closed the door of his father’s house behind him, all
      that queer outlandish nightmare in the streets passed out of his
      mind almost as completely as if, having dreamed it, he had
      awakened in the warm clean morning comfort of his
      spring-mattressed bed.

      Walking into the centre of the great empty drawing-room, he stood
      still.

      A wife! Somebody to talk things over with. One had a right! Damn
      it! One had a right!




      PART III

      CHAPTER I SOAMES IN PARIS


      Soames had travelled little. Aged nineteen he had made the “petty
      tour” with his father, mother, and Winifred—Brussels, the Rhine,
      Switzerland, and home by way of Paris. Aged twenty-seven, just
      when he began to take interest in pictures, he had spent five hot
      weeks in Italy, looking into the Renaissance—not so much in it as
      he had been led to expect—and a fortnight in Paris on his way
      back, looking into himself, as became a Forsyte surrounded by
      people so strongly self-centred and “foreign” as the French. His
      knowledge of their language being derived from his public school,
      he did not understand them when they spoke. Silence he had found
      better for all parties; one did not make a fool of oneself. He
      had disliked the look of the men’s clothes, the closed-in cabs,
      the theatres which looked like bee-hives, the Galleries which
      smelled of beeswax. He was too cautious and too shy to explore
      that side of Paris supposed by Forsytes to constitute its
      attraction under the rose; and as for a collector’s bargain—not
      one to be had! As Nicholas might have put it—they were a grasping
      lot. He had come back uneasy, saying Paris was overrated.

      When, therefore, in June of 1900 he went to Paris, it was but his
      third attempt on the centre of civilisation. This time, however,
      the mountain was going to Mahomet; for he felt by now more deeply
      civilised than Paris, and perhaps he really was. Moreover, he had
      a definite objective. This was no mere genuflexion to a shrine of
      taste and immorality, but the prosecution of his own legitimate
      affairs. He went, indeed, because things were getting past a
      joke. The watch went on and on, and—nothing—nothing! Jolyon had
      never returned to Paris, and no one else was “suspect!” Busy with
      new and very confidential matters, Soames was realising more than
      ever how essential reputation is to a solicitor. But at night and
      in his leisure moments he was ravaged by the thought that time
      was always flying and money flowing in, and his own future as
      much “in irons” as ever. Since Mafeking night he had become aware
      that a “young fool of a doctor” was hanging round Annette. Twice
      he had come across him—a cheerful young fool, not more than
      thirty.

      Nothing annoyed Soames so much as cheerfulness—an indecent,
      extravagant sort of quality, which had no relation to facts. The
      mixture of his desires and hopes was, in a word, becoming
      torture; and lately the thought had come to him that perhaps
      Irene knew she was being shadowed: It was this which finally
      decided him to go and see for himself; to go and once more try to
      break down her repugnance, her refusal to make her own and his
      path comparatively smooth once more. If he failed again—well, he
      would see what she did with herself, anyway!

      He went to an hotel in the Rue Caumartin, highly recommended to
      Forsytes, where practically nobody spoke French. He had formed no
      plan. He did not want to startle her; yet must contrive that she
      had no chance to evade him by flight. And next morning he set out
      in bright weather.

      Paris had an air of gaiety, a sparkle over its star-shape which
      almost annoyed Soames. He stepped gravely, his nose lifted a
      little sideways in real curiosity. He desired now to understand
      things French. Was not Annette French? There was much to be got
      out of his visit, if he could only get it. In this laudable mood
      and the Place de la Concorde he was nearly run down three times.
      He came on the “Cours la Reine,” where Irene’s hotel was
      situated, almost too suddenly, for he had not yet fixed on his
      procedure. Crossing over to the river side, he noted the
      building, white and cheerful-looking, with green sunblinds, seen
      through a screen of plane-tree leaves. And, conscious that it
      would be far better to meet her casually in some open place than
      to risk a call, he sat down on a bench whence he could watch the
      entrance. It was not quite eleven o’clock, and improbable that
      she had yet gone out. Some pigeons were strutting and preening
      their feathers in the pools of sunlight between the shadows of
      the plane-trees. A workman in a blue blouse passed, and threw
      them crumbs from the paper which contained his dinner. A
      “_bonne_” coiffed with ribbon shepherded two little girls with
      pig-tails and frilled drawers. A cab meandered by, whose _cocher_
      wore a blue coat and a black-glazed hat. To Soames a kind of
      affectation seemed to cling about it all, a sort of
      picturesqueness which was out of date. A theatrical people, the
      French! He lit one of his rare cigarettes, with a sense of injury
      that Fate should be casting his life into outlandish waters. He
      shouldn’t wonder if Irene quite enjoyed this foreign life; she
      had never been properly English—even to look at! And he began
      considering which of those windows could be hers under the green
      sunblinds. How could he word what he had come to say so that it
      might pierce the defence of her proud obstinacy? He threw the
      fag-end of his cigarette at a pigeon, with the thought: “I can’t
      stay here for ever twiddling my thumbs. Better give it up and
      call on her in the late afternoon.” But he still sat on, heard
      twelve strike, and then half-past. “I’ll wait till one,” he
      thought, “while I’m about it.” But just then he started up, and
      shrinkingly sat down again. A woman had come out in a
      cream-coloured frock, and was moving away under a fawn-coloured
      parasol. Irene herself! He waited till she was too far away to
      recognise him, then set out after her. She was strolling as
      though she had no particular objective; moving, if he remembered
      rightly, toward the Bois de Boulogne. For half an hour at least
      he kept his distance on the far side of the way till she had
      passed into the Bois itself. Was she going to meet someone after
      all? Some confounded Frenchman—one of those “Bel Ami” chaps,
      perhaps, who had nothing to do but hang about women—for he had
      read that book with difficulty and a sort of disgusted
      fascination. He followed doggedly along a shady alley, losing
      sight of her now and then when the path curved. And it came back
      to him how, long ago, one night in Hyde Park he had slid and
      sneaked from tree to tree, from seat to seat, hunting blindly,
      ridiculously, in burning jealousy for her and young Bosinney. The
      path bent sharply, and, hurrying, he came on her sitting in front
      of a small fountain—a little green-bronze Niobe veiled in hair to
      her slender hips, gazing at the pool she had wept: He came on her
      so suddenly that he was past before he could turn and take off
      his hat. She did not start up. She had always had great
      self-command—it was one of the things he most admired in her, one
      of his greatest grievances against her, because he had never been
      able to tell what she was thinking. Had she realised that he was
      following? Her self-possession made him angry; and, disdaining to
      explain his presence, he pointed to the mournful little Niobe,
      and said:

      “That’s rather a good thing.”

      He could see, then, that she was struggling to preserve her
      composure.

      “I didn’t want to startle you; is this one of your haunts?”

      “Yes.”

      “A little lonely.” As he spoke, a lady, strolling by, paused to
      look at the fountain and passed on.

      Irene’s eyes followed her.

      “No,” she said, prodding the ground with her parasol, “never
      lonely. One has always one’s shadow.”

      Soames understood; and, looking at her hard, he exclaimed:

      “Well, it’s your own fault. You can be free of it at any moment.
      Irene, come back to me, and be free.”

      Irene laughed.

      “Don’t!” cried Soames, stamping his foot; “it’s inhuman. Listen!
      Is there any condition I can make which will bring you back to
      me? If I promise you a separate house—and just a visit now and
      then?”

      Irene rose, something wild suddenly in her face and figure.

      “None! None! None! You may hunt me to the grave. I will not
      come.”

      Outraged and on edge, Soames recoiled.

      “Don’t make a scene!” he said sharply. And they both stood
      motionless, staring at the little Niobe, whose greenish flesh the
      sunlight was burnishing.

      “That’s your last word, then,” muttered Soames, clenching his
      hands; “you condemn us both.”

      Irene bent her head. “I can’t come back. Good-bye!”

      A feeling of monstrous injustice flared up in Soames.

      “Stop!” he said, “and listen to me a moment. You gave me a sacred
