
“Okay,” Harry said, starting off back down the 
corridor with Hermione, Ron hurrying to keep up. 

“Oh don’t mind me!” the Fat Lady called irritably after 
them. “Don’t apologize for bothering me! I’ll just hang 
here, wide open, until you get back, shall I?” 

“Yeah, thanks!” Ron shouted over his shoulder. 

“Hermione, where are we going?” Harry asked, after 
she had led them down through six floors, and 
started down the marble staircase into the entrance 
hall. 



Page | 412 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ll see, you’ll see in a minute!” said Hermione 
excitedly. 

She turned left at the bottom of the staircase and 
hurried toward the door through which Cedric 
Diggory had gone the night after the Goblet of Fire 
had regurgitated his and Harry’s names. Harry had 
never been through here before. He and Ron followed 
Hermione down a flight of stone steps, but instead of 
ending up in a gloomy underground passage like the 
one that led to Snape’s dungeon, they found 
themselves in a broad stone corridor, brightly lit with 
torches, and decorated with cheerful paintings that 
were mainly of food. 

“Oh hang on ...” said Harry slowly, halfway down the 
corridor. “Wait a minute, Hermione. ...” 

“What?” She turned around to look at him, 
anticipation all over her face. 

“I know what this is about,” said Harry. 

He nudged Ron and pointed to the painting just 
behind Hermione. It showed a gigantic silver fruit 
bowl. 

“Hermione!” said Ron, cottoning on. “You’re trying to 
rope us into that spew stuff again!” 

“No, no, I’m not!” she said hastily. “And it’s not spew, 
Ron — ” 

“Changed the name, have you?” said Ron, frowning at 
her. “What are we now, then, the House-Elf Liberation 
Front? I’m not barging into that kitchen and trying to 
make them stop work, I’m not doing it — ” 



Page | 413 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm not asking you to!” Hermione said impatiently. “I 
came down here just now, to talk to them all, and I 
found — oh come on, Harry, I want to show you!” 

She seized his arm again, pulled him in front of the 
picture of the giant fruit bowl, stretched out her 
forefinger, and tickled the huge green pear. It began 
to squirm, chuckling, and suddenly turned into a 
large green door handle. Hermione seized it, pulled 
the door open, and pushed Harry hard in the back, 
forcing him inside. 

He had one brief glimpse of an enormous, high- 
ceilinged room, large as the Great Hall above it, with 
mounds of glittering brass pots and pans heaped 
around the stone walls, and a great brick fireplace at 
the other end, when something small hurtled toward 
him from the middle of the room, squealing, “Harry 
Potter, sir! Harry Potteri” 

Next second all the wind had been knocked out of 
him as the squealing elf hit him hard in the midriff, 
hugging him so tightly he thought his ribs would 
break. 

“D-Dobby?” Harry gasped. 

“It is Dobby, sir, it is!” squealed the voice from 
somewhere around his navel. “Dobby has been 
hoping and hoping to see Harry Potter, sir, and Harry 
Potter has come to see him, sir!” 

Dobby let go and stepped back a few paces, beaming 
up at Harry, his enormous, green, tennis-ball-shaped 
eyes brimming with tears of happiness. He looked 
almost exactly as Harry remembered him; the pencil- 
shaped nose, the batlike ears, the long fingers and 
feet — all except the clothes, which were very 
different. 

Page | 414 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




When Dobby had worked for the Malfoys, he had 
always worn the same filthy old pillowcase. Now, 
however, he was wearing the strangest assortment of 
garments Harry had ever seen; he had done an even 
worse job of dressing himself than the wizards at the 
World Cup. He was wearing a tea cozy for a hat, on 
which he had pinned a number of bright badges; a tie 
patterned with horseshoes over a bare chest, a pair of 
what looked like children’s soccer shorts, and odd 
socks. One of these, Harry saw, was the black one 
Harry had removed from his own foot and tricked Mr. 
Malfoy into giving Dobby, thereby setting Dobby free. 
The other was covered in pink and orange stripes. 

“Dobby, what’re you doing here?” Harry said in 
amazement. 

“Dobby has come to work at Hogwarts, sir!” Dobby 
squealed excitedly. “Professor Dumbledore gave 
Dobby and Winky jobs, sir!” 

“Winky?” said Harry. “She’s here too?” 

“Yes, sir, yes!” said Dobby, and he seized Harry’s 
hand and pulled him off into the kitchen between the 
four long wooden tables that stood there. Each of 
these tables, Harry noticed as he passed them, was 
positioned exactly beneath the four House tables 
above, in the Great Hall. At the moment, they were 
clear of food, dinner having finished, but he supposed 
that an hour ago they had been laden with dishes 
that were then sent up through the ceiling to their 
counterparts above. 

At least a hundred little elves were standing around 
the kitchen, beaming, bowing, and curtsying as 
Dobby led Harry past them. They were all wearing the 
same uniform: a tea towel stamped with the Hogwarts 
crest, and tied, as Winky’s had been, like a toga. 

Page | 415 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby stopped in front of the brick fireplace and 
pointed. 

“Winky, sir!” he said. 

Winky was sitting on a stool by the fire. Unlike 
Dobby, she had obviously not foraged for clothes. She 
was wearing a neat little skirt and blouse with a 
matching blue hat, which had holes in it for her large 
ears. However, while every one of Dobby ’s strange 
collection of garments was so clean and well cared for 
that it looked brand-new, Winky was plainly not 
taking care of her clothes at all. There were soup 
stains all down her blouse and a burn in her skirt. 

“Hello, Winky,” said Harry. 

Winky’s lip quivered. Then she burst into tears, which 
spilled out of her great brown eyes and splashed 
down her front, just as they had done at the 
Quidditch World Cup. 

“Oh dear,” said Hermione. She and Ron had followed 
Harry and Dobby to the end of the kitchen. “Winky, 
don’t cry, please don’t ...” 

But Winky cried harder than ever. Dobby, on the 
other hand, beamed up at Harry. 

“Would Harry Potter like a cup of tea?” he squeaked 
loudly, over Winky’s sobs. 

“Er — yeah, okay,” said Harry. 

Instantly, about six house-elves came trotting up 
behind him, bearing a large silver tray laden with a 
teapot, cups for Harry, Ron, and Hermione, a milk 
jug, and a large plate of biscuits. 



Page | 416 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Good service!” Ron said, in an impressed voice. 
Hermione frowned at him, but the elves all looked 
delighted; they bowed very low and retreated. 

“How long have you been here, Dobby?” Harry asked 
as Dobby handed around the tea. 

“Only a week, Harry Potter, sir!” said Dobby happily. 
“Dobby came to see Professor Dumbledore, sir. You 
see, sir, it is very difficult for a house-elf who has 
been dismissed to get a new position, sir, very difficult 
indeed — ” 

At this, Winky howled even harder, her squashed- 
tomato of a nose dribbling all down her front, though 
she made no effort to stem the flow. 

“Dobby has traveled the country for two whole years, 
sir, trying to find work!” Dobby squeaked. “But Dobby 
hasn’t found work, sir, because Dobby wants paying 
now!” 

The house-elves all around the kitchen, who had been 
listening and watching with interest, all looked away 
at these words, as though Dobby had said something 
rude and embarrassing. Hermione, however, said, 
“Good for you, Dobby!” 

“Thank you, miss!” said Dobby, grinning toothily at 
her. “But most wizards doesn’t want a house-elf who 
wants paying, miss. That’s not the point of a house- 
elf,’ they says, and they slammed the door in Dobby ’s 
face! Dobby likes work, but he wants to wear clothes 
and he wants to be paid, Harry Potter. . . . Dobby likes 
being free!” 

The Hogwarts house-elves had now started edging 
away from Dobby, as though he were carrying 
something contagious. Winky, however, remained 

Page | 417 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




where she was, though there was a definite increase 
in the volume of her crying. 

“And then, Harry Potter, Dobby goes to visit Winky, 
and finds out Winky has been freed too, sir!” said 
Dobby delightedly. 

At this, Winky flung herself forward off her stool and 
lay facedown on the flagged stone floor, beating her 
tiny fists upon it and positively screaming with 
misery. Hermione hastily dropped down to her knees 
beside her and tried to comfort her, but nothing she 
said made the slightest difference. Dobby continued 
with his story, shouting shrilly over Winky’s 
screeches. 

“And then Dobby had the idea, Harry Potter, sir! Why 
doesn’t Dobby and Winky find work together?’ Dobby 
says. Where is there enough work for two house- 
elves?’ says Winky. And Dobby thinks, and it comes 
to him, sir! Hogwarts\ So Dobby and Winky came to 
see Professor Dumbledore, sir, and Professor 
Dumbledore took us on!” 

Dobby beamed very brightly, and happy tears welled 
in his eyes again. 

“And Professor Dumbledore says he will pay Dobby, 
sir, if Dobby wants paying! And so Dobby is a free elf, 
sir, and Dobby gets a Galleon a week and one day off 
a month!” 

“That’s not very much!” Hermione shouted 
indignantly from the floor, over Winky’s continued 
screaming and fist-beating. 

“Professor Dumbledore offered Dobby ten Galleons a 
week, and weekends off,” said Dobby, suddenly giving 
a little shiver, as though the prospect of so much 

Page | 418 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




leisure and riches were frightening, “but Dobby beat 
him down, miss. ... Dobby likes freedom, miss, but he 
isn’t wanting too much, miss, he likes work better.” 

“And how much is Professor Dumbledore paying you, 
Winky?” Hermione asked kindly. 

If she had thought this would cheer up Winky, she 
was wildly mistaken. Winky did stop crying, but when 
she sat up she was glaring at Hermione through her 
massive brown eyes, her whole face sopping wet and 
suddenly furious. 

“Winky is a disgraced elf, but Winky is not yet getting 
paid!” she squeaked. “Winky is not sunk so low as 
that! Winky is properly ashamed of being freed!” 

“Ashamed?” said Hermione blankly. “But — Winky, 
come on! It’s Mr. Crouch who should be ashamed, not 
you! You didn’t do anything wrong, he was really 
horrible to you — ” 

But at these words, Winky clapped her hands over 
the holes in her hat, flattening her ears so that she 
couldn’t hear a word, and screeched, “You is not 
insulting my master, miss! You is not insulting Mr. 
Crouch! Mr. Crouch is a good wizard, miss! Mr. 
Crouch is right to sack bad Winky!” 

“Winky is having trouble adjusting, Harry Potter,” 
squeaked Dobby confidentially. “Winky forgets she is 
not bound to Mr. Crouch anymore; she is allowed to 
speak her mind now, but she won’t do it.” 

“Can’t house-elves speak their minds about their 
masters, then?” Harry asked. 

“Oh no, sir, no,” said Dobby, looking suddenly 
serious. “ Tis part of the house-elf’s enslavement, sir. 

Page | 419 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




We keeps their secrets and our silence, sir. We 
upholds the family’s honor, and we never speaks ill of 
them — though Professor Dumbledore told Dobby he 
does not insist upon this. Professor Dumbledore said 
we is free to — to — ” 

Dobby looked suddenly nervous and beckoned Harry 
closer. Harry bent forward. Dobby whispered, “He 
said we is free to call him a — a barmy old codger if 
we likes, sir!” 

Dobby gave a frightened sort of giggle. 

“But Dobby is not wanting to, Harry Potter,” he said, 
talking normally again, and shaking his head so that 
his ears flapped. “Dobby likes Professor Dumbledore 
very much, sir, and is proud to keep his secrets and 
our silence for him.” 

“But you can say what you like about the Malfoys 
now?” Harry asked him, grinning. 

A slightly fearful look came into Dobby’s immense 
eyes. 

“Dobby — Dobby could,” he said doubtfully. He 
squared his small shoulders. “Dobby could tell Harry 
Potter that his old masters were — were — bad Dark 
wizards'.” 

Dobby stood for a moment, quivering all over, horror- 
struck by his own daring — then he rushed over to 
the nearest table and began banging his head on it 
very hard, squealing, “ Bad Dobby ! Bad Dobby\” 

Harry seized Dobby by the back of his tie and pulled 
him away from the table. 



Page | 420 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Thank you, Harry Potter, thank you,” said Dobby 
breathlessly, rubbing his head. 

“You just need a bit of practice,” Harry said. 

“Practice!” squealed Winky furiously. “You is ought to 
be ashamed of yourself, Dobby, talking that way 
about your masters!” 

“They isn’t my masters anymore, Winky!” said Dobby 
defiantly. “Dobby doesn’t care what they think 
anymore!” 

“Oh you is a bad elf, Dobby!” moaned Winky, tears 
leaking down her face once more. “My poor Mr. 
Crouch, what is he doing without Winky? He is 
needing me, he is needing my help! I is looking after 
the Crouches all my life, and my mother is doing it 
before me, and my grandmother is doing it before her 
...oh what is they saying if they knew Winky was 
freed? Oh the shame, the shame!” She buried her face 
in her skirt again and bawled. 

“Winky,” said Hermione firmly, “I’m quite sure Mr. 
Crouch is getting along perfectly well without you. 
We’ve seen him, you know — ” 

“You is seeing my master?” said Winky breathlessly, 
raising her tearstained face out of her skirt once more 
and goggling at Hermione. “You is seeing him here at 
Hogwarts?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione, “he and Mr. Bagman are judges 
in the Tri-wizard Tournament.” 

“Mr. Bagman comes too?” squeaked Winky, and to 
Harry’s great surprise (and Ron’s and Hermione’s too, 
by the looks on their faces), she looked angry again. 



Page | 421 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Mr. Bagman is a bad wizard! A very bad wizard! My 
master isn’t liking him, oh no, not at all!” 

“Bagman — bad?” said Harry. 

“Oh yes,” Winky said, nodding her head furiously. 

“My master is telling Winky some things! But Winky 
is not saying ... Winky — Winky keeps her master’s 
secrets. ...” 

She dissolved yet again in tears; they could hear her 
sobbing into her skirt, “Poor master, poor master, no 
Winky to help him no more!” 

They couldn’t get another sensible word out of Winky. 
They left her to her crying and finished their tea, 
while Dobby chatted happily about his life as a free elf 
and his plans for his wages. 

“Dobby is going to buy a sweater next, Harry Potter!” 
he said happily, pointing at his bare chest. 

“Tell you what, Dobby,” said Ron, who seemed to have 
taken a great liking to the elf, “I’ll give you the one my 
mum knits me this Christmas, I always get one from 
her. You don’t mind maroon, do you?” 

Dobby was delighted. 

“We might have to shrink it a bit to fit you,” Ron told 
him, “but it’ll go well with your tea cozy.” 

As they prepared to take their leave, many of the 
surrounding elves pressed in upon them, offering 
snacks to take back upstairs. Hermione refused, with 
a pained look at the way the elves kept bowing and 
curtsying, but Harry and Ron loaded their pockets 
with cream cakes and pies. 



Page | 422 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Thanks a lot!” Harry said to the elves, who had all 
clustered around the door to say good night. “See 
you, Dobby!” 

“Harry Potter . . . can Dobby come and see you 
sometimes, sir?” Dobby asked tentatively. 

“ ’Course you can,” said Harry, and Dobby beamed. 

“You know what?” said Ron, once he, Hermione, and 
Harry had left the kitchens behind and were climbing 
the steps into the entrance hall again. “All these years 
I’ve been really impressed with Fred and George, 
nicking food from the kitchens — well, it’s not exactly 
difficult, is it? They can’t wait to give it away!” 

“I think this is the best thing that could have 
happened to those elves, you know,” said Hermione, 
leading the way back up the marble staircase. “Dobby 
coming to work here, I mean. The other elves will see 
how happy he is, being free, and slowly it’ll dawn on 
them that they want that too!” 

“Let’s hope they don’t look too closely at Winky,” said 
Harry. 

“Oh shell cheer up,” said Hermione, though she 
sounded a bit doubtful. “Once the shock’s worn off, 
and she’s got used to Hogwarts, she’ll see how much 
better off she is without that Crouch man.” 

“She seems to love him,” said Ron thickly (he had just 
started on a cream cake) . 

“Doesn’t think much of Bagman, though, does she?” 
said Harry. “Wonder what Crouch says at home about 
him?” 



Page | 423 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Probably says he’s not a very good Head of 
Department,” said Hermione, “and let’s face it ... he’s 
got a point, hasn’t he?” 

“I’d still rather work for him than old Crouch,” said 
Ron. “At least Bagman’s got a sense of humor.” 

“Don’t let Percy hear you saying that,” Hermione said, 
smiling slightly. 

“Yeah, well, Percy wouldn’t want to work for anyone 
with a sense of humor, would he?” said Ron, now 
starting on a chocolate eclair. “Percy wouldn’t 
recognize a joke if it danced naked in front of him 
wearing Dobby’s tea cozy.” 



Page | 424 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 





THE UNEXPECTED TASK 

“Potter! Weasley! Will you pay attention?” 

Professor McGonagall’s irritated voice cracked like a 
whip through the Transfiguration class on Thursday, 
and Harry and Ron both jumped and looked up. 

It was the end of the lesson; they had finished their 
work; the guinea fowl they had been changing into 
guinea pigs had been shut away in a large cage on 
Professor McGonagall’s desk (Neville’s still had 
feathers); they had copied down their homework from 
the blackboard (“Describe, with examples, the ways in 
which Transforming Spells must be adapted when 
performing Cross-Species Switches”). The bell was due 
to ring at any moment, and Harry and Ron, who had 
been having a sword fight with a couple of Fred and 
George’s fake wands at the back of the class, looked 
up, Ron holding a tin parrot and Harry, a rubber 
haddock. 

“Now that Potter and Weasley have been kind enough 
to act their age,” said Professor McGonagall, with an 

Page | 425 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



angry look at the pair of them as the head of Harry’s 
haddock drooped and fell silently to the floor — Ron’s 
parrot’s beak had severed it moments before — “I 
have something to say to you all. 

“The Yule Ball is approaching — a traditional part of 
the Tri-wizard Tournament and an opportunity for us 
to socialize with our foreign guests. Now, the ball will 
be open only to fourth years and above — although 
you may invite a younger student if you wish — ” 

Lavender Brown let out a shrill giggle. Parvati Patil 
nudged her hard in the ribs, her face working 
furiously as she too fought not to giggle. They both 
looked around at Harry. Professor McGonagall 
ignored them, which Harry thought was distinctly 
unfair, as she had just told off him and Ron. 

“Dress robes will be worn,” Professor McGonagall 
continued, “and the ball will start at eight o’clock on 
Christmas Day, finishing at midnight in the Great 
Hall. Now then — ” 

Professor McGonagall stared deliberately around the 
class. 

“The Yule Ball is of course a chance for us all to — er 
— let our hair down,” she said, in a disapproving 
voice. 

Lavender giggled harder than ever, with her hand 
pressed hard against her mouth to stifle the sound. 
Harry could see what was funny this time: Professor 
McGonagall, with her hair in a tight bun, looked as 
though she had never let her hair down in any sense. 

“But that does NOT mean,” Professor McGonagall 
went on, “that we will be relaxing the standards of 
behavior we expect from Hogwarts students. I will be 

Page | 426 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




most seriously displeased if a Gryffindor student 
embarrasses the school in any way.” 

The bell rang, and there was the usual scuffle of 
activity as everyone packed their bags and swung 
them onto their shoulders. 

Professor McGonagall called above the noise, “Potter 
— a word, if you please.” 

Assuming this had something to do with his headless 
rubber haddock, Harry proceeded gloomily to the 
teacher’s desk. Professor McGonagall waited until the 
rest of the class had gone, and then said, “Potter, the 
champions and their partners — ” 

“What partners?” said Harry. 

Professor McGonagall looked suspiciously at him, as 
though she thought he was trying to be funny. 

“Your partners for the Yule Ball, Potter,” she said 
coldly. “Your dance partners.” 

Harry’s insides seemed to curl up and shrivel. 

“Dance partners?” He felt himself going red. “I don’t 
dance,” he said quickly. 

“Oh yes, you do,” said Professor McGonagall irritably. 
“That’s what I’m telling you. Traditionally, the 
champions and their partners open the ball.” 

Harry had a sudden mental image of himself in a top 
hat and tails, accompanied by a girl in the sort of 
frilly dress Aunt Petunia always wore to Uncle 
Vernon’s work parties. 

“I’m not dancing,” he said. 

Page | 427 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It is traditional,” said Professor McGonagall firmly. 
“You are a Hogwarts champion, and you will do what 
is expected of you as a representative of the school. 

So make sure you get yourself a partner, Potter.” 

“But — I don’t — ” 

“You heard me, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall in 
a very final sort of way. 

A week ago, Harry would have said finding a partner 
for a dance would be a cinch compared to taking on a 
Hungarian Horntail. But now that he had done the 
latter, and was facing the prospect of asking a girl to 
the ball, he thought he’d rather have another round 
with the dragon. 

Harry had never known so many people to put their 
names down to stay at Hogwarts for Christmas; he 
always did, of course, because the alternative was 
usually going back to Privet Drive, but he had always 
been very much in the minority before now. This year, 
however, everyone in the fourth year and above 
seemed to be staying, and they all seemed to Harry to 
be obsessed with the coming ball — or at least all the 
girls were, and it was amazing how many girls 
Hogwarts suddenly seemed to hold; he had never 
quite noticed that before. Girls giggling and 
whispering in the corridors, girls shrieking with 
laughter as boys passed them, girls excitedly 
comparing notes on what they were going to wear on 
Christmas night. ... 

“Why do they have to move in packs?” Harry asked 
Ron as a dozen or so girls walked past them, 
sniggering and staring at Harry. “How’re you 
supposed to get one on their own to ask them?” 



Page | 428 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lasso one?” Ron suggested. “Got any idea who you’re 
going to try?” 

Harry didn’t answer. He knew perfectly well whom 
he’d like to ask, but working up the nerve was 
something else. ... Cho was a year older than he was; 
she was very pretty; she was a very good Quidditch 
player, and she was also very popular. 

Ron seemed to know what was going on inside 
Harry’s head. 

“Listen, you’re not going to have any trouble. You’re a 
champion. You’ve just beaten a Hungarian Horntail. I 
bet they 11 be queuing up to go with you.” 

In tribute to their recently repaired friendship, Ron 
had kept the bitterness in his voice to a bare 
minimum. Moreover, to Harry’s amazement, he 
turned out to be quite right. 

A curly-haired third-year Hufflepuff girl to whom 
Harry had never spoken in his life asked him to go to 
the ball with her the very next day. Harry was so 
taken aback he said no before he’d even stopped to 
consider the matter. The girl walked off looking rather 
hurt, and Harry had to endure Dean’s, Seamus’s, and 
Ron’s taunts about her all through History of Magic. 
The following day, two more girls asked him, a second 
year and (to his horror) a fifth year who looked as 
though she might knock him out if he refused. 

“She was quite good-looking,” said Ron fairly, after 
he’d stopped laughing. 

“She was a foot taller than me,” said Harry, still 
unnerved. “Imagine what I’d look like trying to dance 
with her.” 



Page | 429 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione’s words about Krum kept coming back to 
him. “They only like him because he’s famous!” Harry 
doubted very much if any of the girls who had asked 
to be his partner so far would have wanted to go to 
the ball with him if he hadn’t been a school 
champion. Then he wondered if this would bother 
him if Cho asked him. 

On the whole, Harry had to admit that even with the 
embarrassing prospect of opening the ball before him, 
life had definitely improved since he had got through 
the first task. He wasn’t attracting nearly as much 
unpleasantness in the corridors anymore, which he 
suspected had a lot to do with Cedric — he had an 
idea Cedric might have told the Hufflepuffs to leave 
Harry alone, in gratitude for Harry’s tip-off about the 
dragons. There seemed to be fewer Support Cedric 
Diggoryl badges around too. Draco Malfoy, of course, 
was still quoting Rita Skeeter’s article to him at every 
possible opportunity, but he was getting fewer and 
fewer laughs out of it — and just to heighten Harry’s 
feeling of well-being, no story about Hagrid had 
appeared in the Daily Prophet 

“She didn’ seem very int’rested in magical creatures, 
ter tell yeh the truth,” Hagrid said, when Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione asked him how his interview with Rita 
Skeeter had gone during the last Care of Magical 
Creatures lesson of the term. To their very great relief, 
Hagrid had given up on direct contact with the 
skrewts now, and they were merely sheltering behind 
his cabin today, sitting at a trestle table and 
preparing a fresh selection of food with which to 
tempt the skrewts. 

“She jus’ wanted me ter talk about you, Harry,” 

Hagrid continued in a low voice. “Well, I told her we’d 
been friends since I went ter fetch yeh from the 
Dursleys. ‘Never had to tell him off in four years?’ she 

Page | 430 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




said. ‘Never played you up in lessons, has he?’ I told 
her no, an’ she didn’ seem happy at all. Yeh’d think 
she wanted me to say yeh were horrible, Harry.” 

“ ’Course she did,” said Harry, throwing lumps of 
dragon liver into a large metal bowl and picking up 
his knife to cut some more. “She can’t keep writing 
about what a tragic little hero I am, it’ll get boring.” 

“She wants a new angle, Hagrid,” said Ron wisely as 
he shelled salamander eggs. “You were supposed to 
say Harry’s a mad delinquent!” 

“But he’s not!” said Hagrid, looking genuinely 
shocked. 

“She should’ve interviewed Snape,” said Harry grimly. 
“He’d give her the goods on me any day. ‘Potter has 
been crossing lines ever since he first arrived at this 
school. . . . ’ ” 

“Said that, did he?” said Hagrid, while Ron and 
Hermione laughed. “Well, yeh might’ve bent a few 
rules, Harry, bu’ yeh’re all righ’ really, aren’ you?” 

“Cheers, Hagrid,” said Harry, grinning. 

“You coming to this ball thing on Christmas Day, 
Hagrid?” said Ron. 

“Though’ I might look in on it, yeah,” said Hagrid 
gruffly. “Should be a good do, I reckon. You’ll be 
openin’ the dancin’, won’ yeh, Harry? Who ’re you 
takin’?” 

“No one, yet,” said Harry, feeling himself going red 
again. Hagrid didn’t pursue the subject. 



Page | 431 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The last week of term became increasingly boisterous 
as it progressed. Rumors about the Yule Ball were 
flying everywhere, though Harry didn’t believe half of 
them — for instance, that Dumbledore had bought 
eight hundred barrels of mulled mead from Madam 
Rosmerta. It seemed to be fact, however, that he had 
booked the Weird Sisters. Exactly who or what the 
Weird Sisters were Harry didn’t know, never having 
had access to a wizard’s wireless, but he deduced 
from the wild excitement of those who had grown up 
listening to the WWN (Wizarding Wireless Network) 
that they were a very famous musical group. 

Some of the teachers, like little Professor Flitwick, 
gave up trying to teach them much when their minds 
were so clearly elsewhere; he allowed them to play 
games in his lesson on Wednesday, and spent most of 
it talking to Harry about the perfect Summoning 
Charm Harry had used during the first task of the 
Triwizard Tournament. Other teachers were not so 
generous. Nothing would ever deflect Professor Binns, 
for example, from plowing on through his notes on 
goblin rebellions — as Binns hadn’t let his own death 
stand in the way of continuing to teach, they 
supposed a small thing like Christmas wasn’t going to 
put him off. It was amazing how he could make even 
bloody and vicious goblin riots sound as boring as 
Percy’s cauldron-bottom report. Professors 
McGonagall and Moody kept them working until the 
very last second of their classes too, and Snape, of 
course, would no sooner let them play games in class 
than adopt Harry. Staring nastily around at them all, 
he informed them that he would be testing them on 
poison antidotes during the last lesson of the term. 

“Evil, he is,” Ron said bitterly that night in the 
Gryffindor common room. “Springing a test on us on 
the last day. Ruining the last bit of term with a whole 
load of studying.” 

Page | 432 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Mmm ... you’re not exactly straining yourself, 
though, are you?” said Hermione, looking at him over 
the top of her Potions notes. Ron was busy building a 
card castle out of his Exploding Snap pack — a much 
more interesting pastime than with Muggle cards, 
because of the chance that the whole thing would 
blow up at any second. 

“It’s Christmas, Hermione,” said Harry lazily; he was 
rereading Flying with the Cannons for the tenth time 
in an armchair near the fire. 

Hermione looked severely over at him too. “I’d have 
thought you’d be doing something constructive, 

Harry, even if you don’t want to learn your antidotes!” 

“Like what?” Harry said as he watched Joey Jenkins 
of the Cannons belt a Bludger toward a Ballycastle 
Bats Chaser. 

“That egg!” Hermione hissed. 

“Come on, Hermione, I’ve got till February the twenty- 
fourth,” Harry said. 

He had put the golden egg upstairs in his trunk and 
hadn’t opened it since the celebration party after the 
first task. There were still two and a half months to go 
until he needed to know what all the screechy wailing 
meant, after all. 

“But it might take weeks to work it out!” said 
Hermione. “You’re going to look a real idiot if everyone 
else knows what the next task is and you don’t!” 

“Leave him alone, Hermione, he’s earned a bit of a 
break,” said Ron, and he placed the last two cards on 
top of the castle and the whole lot blew up, singeing 
his eyebrows. 

Page | 433 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Nice look, Ron ... go well with your dress robes, that 
will.” 



It was Fred and George. They sat down at the table 
with Harry, Ron, and Hermione as Ron felt how much 
damage had been done. 

“Ron, can we borrow Pigwidgeon?” George asked. 

“No, he’s off delivering a letter,” said Ron. “Why?” 

“Because George wants to invite him to the ball,” said 
Fred sarcastically. 

“Because we want to send a letter, you stupid great 
prat,” said George. 
