smoke: His hair was matted and his robes stained. 

“Kreacher apologizes for the delay in bringing the 
thief, Master,” croaked the elf. “Fletcher knows how to 
avoid capture, has many hidey-holes and 
accomplices. Nevertheless, Kreacher cornered the 
thief in the end.” 

“You’ve done really well, Kreacher,” said Harry, and 
the elf bowed low. 

“Right, we’ve got a few questions for you,” Harry told 
Mundungus, who shouted at once, 

“I panicked, okay? I never wanted to come along, no 
offense, mate, but I never volunteered to die for you, 
an’ that was bleedin’ You-Know-Who come flying at 
me, anyone woulda got outta there, I said all along I 
didn’t wanna do it — ” 

“For your information, none of the rest of us 
Disapparated,” said Hermione. 

“Well, you’re a bunch of bleedin’ ’eroes then, aren’t 
you, but I never pretended I was up for killing meself 



“We’re not interested in why you ran out on Mad- 
Eye,” said Harry, moving his wand a little closer to 
Mundungus’s baggy, bloodshot eyes. “We already 
knew you were an unreliable bit of scum.” 

“Well then, why the ’ell am I being ’unted down by 
’ouse-elves? Or is this about them goblets again? I 
ain’t got none of ’em left, or you could ’ave ’em — ” 

Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s not about the goblets either, although you’re 
getting warmer,” said Harry. “Shut up and listen.” 

It felt wonderful to have something to do, someone of 
whom he could demand some small portion of truth. 
Harry’s wand was now so close to the bridge of 
Mundungus’s nose that Mundungus had gone cross- 
eyed trying to keep it in view. 

“When you cleaned out this house of anything 
valuable,” Harry began, but Mundungus interrupted 
him again. 

“Sirius never cared about any of the junk — ” 

There was the sound of pattering feet, a blaze of 
shining copper, an echoing clang, and a shriek of 
agony: Kreacher had taken a run at Mundungus and 
hit him over the head with a saucepan. 

“Call ’im off, call ’im off, ’e should be locked up!” 
screamed Mundungus, cowering as Kreacher raised 
the heavy-bottomed pan again. 

“Kreacher, no!” shouted Harry. 

Kreacher’s thin arms trembled with the weight of the 
pan, still held aloft. 

“Perhaps just one more, Master Harry, for luck?” 

Ron laughed. 

“We need him conscious, Kreacher, but if he needs 
persuading you can do the honors,” said Harry. 

“Thank you very much, Master,” said Kreacher with a 
bow, and he retreated a short distance, his great pale 
eyes still fixed upon Mundungus with loathing. 

Page | 247 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“When you stripped this house of all the valuables 
you could find,” Harry began again, “you took a 
bunch of stuff from the kitchen cupboard. There was 
a locket there.” Harry’s mouth was suddenly dry: He 
could sense Ron and Hermione’s tension and 
excitement too. “What did you do with it?” 

“Why?” asked Mundungus. “Is it valuable?” 

“You’ve still got it!” cried Hermione. 

“No, he hasn’t,” said Ron shrewdly. “He’s wondering 
whether he should have asked more money for it.” 

“More?” said Mundungus. “That wouldn’t have been 
effing difficult ... bleedin’ gave it away, di’n’ I? No 
choice.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“I was selling in Diagon Alley and she come up to me 
and asks if I’ve got a license for trading in magical 
artifacts. Bleedin’ snoop. She was gonna fine me, but 
she took a fancy to the locket an’ told me she’d take it 
and let me off that time, and to fink meself lucky.” 

“Who was this woman?” asked Harry. 

“I dunno, some Ministry hag.” 

Mundungus considered for a moment, brow wrinkled. 

“Little woman. Bow on top of ’er head.” 

He frowned and then added, “Looked like a toad.” 

Harry dropped his wand: It hit Mundungus on the 
nose and shot red sparks into his eyebrows, which 
ignited. 

Page | 248 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Aguamenti\” screamed Hermione, and a jet of water 
streamed from her wand, engulfing a spluttering and 
choking Mundungus. 

Harry looked up and saw his own shock reflected in 
Ron’s and Hermione’s faces. The scars on the back of 
his right hand seemed to be tingling again. 



Page | 249 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






MAGIC IS MIGHT 

As August wore on, the square of unkempt grass in 
the middle of Grimmauld Place shriveled in the sun 
until it was brittle and brown. The inhabitants of 
number twelve were never seen by anybody in the 
surrounding houses, and nor was number twelve 
itself. The Muggles who lived in Grimmauld Place had 
long since accepted the amusing mistake in the 
numbering that had caused number eleven to sit 
beside number thirteen. 

And yet the square was now attracting a trickle of 
visitors who seemed to find the anomaly most 
intriguing. Barely a day passed without one or two 
people arriving in Grimmauld Place with no other 
purpose, or so it seemed, than to lean against the 
railings facing numbers eleven and thirteen, watching 
the join between the two houses. The lurkers were 
never the same two days running, although they all 
seemed to share a dislike for normal clothing. Most of 
the Londoners who passed them were used to 
eccentric dressers and took little notice, though 
occasionally one of them might glance back, 

Page | 250 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



wondering why anyone would wear such long cloaks 
in this heat. 

The watchers seemed to be gleaning little satisfaction 
from their vigil. Occasionally one of them started 
forward excitedly, as if they had seen something 
interesting at last, only to fall back looking 
disappointed. 

On the first day of September there were more people 
lurking in the square than ever before. Half a dozen 
men in long cloaks stood silent and watchful, gazing 
as ever at houses eleven and thirteen, but the thing 
for which they were waiting still appeared elusive. As 
evening drew in, bringing with it an unexpected gust 
of chilly rain for the first time in weeks, there 
occurred one of those inexplicable moments when 
they appeared to have seen something interesting. 

The man with the twisted face pointed and his closest 
companion, a podgy, pallid man, started forward, but 
a moment later they had relaxed into their previous 
state of inactivity, looking frustrated and 
disappointed. 

Meanwhile, inside number twelve, Harry had just 
entered the hall. He had nearly lost his balance as he 
Apparated onto the top step just outside the front 
door, and thought that the Death Eaters might have 
caught a glimpse of his momentarily exposed elbow. 
Shutting the front door carefully behind him, he 
pulled off the Invisibility Cloak, draped it over his 
arm, and hurried along the gloomy hallway toward 
the door that led to the basement, a stolen copy of the 
Daily Prophet clutched in his hand. 

The usual low whisper of “Severus Snape?” greeted 
him, the chill wind swept him, and his tongue rolled 
up for a moment. 



Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I didn’t kill you,” he said, once it had unrolled, then 
held his breath as the dusty jinx-figure exploded. He 
waited until he was halfway down the stairs to the 
kitchen, out of earshot of Mrs. Black and clear of the 
dust cloud, before calling, “I’ve got news, and you 
won’t like it.” 

The kitchen was almost unrecognizable. Every surface 
now shone: Copper pots and pans had been 
burnished to a rosy glow; the wooden tabletop 
gleamed; the goblets and plates already laid for 
dinner glinted in the light from a merrily blazing fire, 
on which a cauldron was simmering. Nothing in the 
room, however, was more dramatically different than 
the house-elf who now came hurrying toward Harry, 
dressed in a snowy-white towel, his ear hair as clean 
and fluffy as cotton wool, Regulus’s locket bouncing 
on his thin chest. 

“Shoes off, if you please, Master Harry, and hands 
washed before dinner,” croaked Kreacher, seizing the 
Invisibility Cloak and slouching off to hang it on a 
hook on the wall, beside a number of old-fashioned 
robes that had been freshly laundered. 

“What’s happened?” Ron asked apprehensively. He 
and Hermione had been poring over a sheaf of 
scribbled notes and hand-drawn maps that littered 
the end of the long kitchen table, but now they 
watched Harry as he strode toward them and threw 
down the newspaper on top of their scattered 
parchment. 

A large picture of a familiar, hook-nosed, black-haired 
man stared up at them all, beneath a headline that 
read: 

SEVERUS SNAPE CONFIRMED AS HOGWARTS 
HEADMASTER 

Page | 252 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No!” said Ron and Hermione loudly. 

Hermione was quickest; she snatched up the 
newspaper and began to read the accompanying story 
out loud. 

“ ‘Severus Snape, long-standing Potions master at 
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, was 
today appointed headmaster in the most important of 
several staffing changes at the ancient school. 
Following the resignation of the previous Muggle 
Studies teacher, Alecto Carrow will take over the post 
while her brother, Amycus, fills the position of Defense 
Against the Dark Arts professor. 

“ 7 welcome the opportunity to uphold our finest 
Wizarding traditions and values — ’ Like committing 
murder and cutting off people’s ears, I suppose! 

Snape, headmaster! Snape in Dumbledore’s study — 
Merlin’s pants!” she shrieked, making both Harry and 
Ron jump. She leapt up from the table and hurtled 
from the room, shouting as she went, “I’ll be back in a 
minute!” 

“ ‘Merlin’s pants?” repeated Ron, looking amused. 
“She must be upset.” He pulled the newspaper toward 
him and perused the article about Snape. 

“The other teachers won’t stand for this. McGonagall 
and Flitwick and Sprout all know the truth, they 
know how Dumbledore died. They won’t accept Snape 
as headmaster. And who are these Carrows?” 

“Death Eaters,” said Harry. “There are pictures of 
them inside. They were at the top of the tower when 
Snape killed Dumbledore, so it’s all friends together. 
And,” Harry went on bitterly, drawing up a chair, “I 
can’t see that the other teachers have got any choice 
but to stay. If the Ministry and Voldemort are behind 
Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Snape it’ll be a choice between staying and teaching, 
or a nice few years in Azkaban — and that’s if they’re 
lucky. I reckon they’ll stay to try and protect the 
students.” 

Kreacher came bustling to the table with a large 
tureen in his hands, and ladled out soup into pristine 
bowls, whistling between his teeth as he did so. 

“Thanks, Kreacher,” said Harry, flipping over the 
Prophet so as not to have to look at Snape ’s face. 

“Well, at least we know exactly where Snape is now.” 

He began to spoon soup into his mouth. The quality 
of Kreacher’s cooking had improved dramatically ever 
since he had been given Regulus’s locket: Today’s 
French onion was as good as Harry had ever tasted. 

“There are still a load of Death Eaters watching the 
house,” he told Ron as he ate, “more than usual. It’s 
like they’re hoping we’ll march out carrying our 
school trunks and head off for the Hogwarts Express.” 

Ron glanced at his watch. 

“I’ve been thinking about that all day. It left nearly six 
hours ago. Weird, not being on it, isn’t it?” 

In his mind’s eye Harry seemed to see the scarlet 
steam engine as he and Ron had once followed it by 
air, shimmering between fields and hills, a rippling 
scarlet caterpillar. He was sure Ginny, Neville, and 
Luna were sitting together at this moment, perhaps 
wondering where he, Ron, and Hermione were, or 
debating how best to undermine Snape ’s new regime. 

“They nearly saw me coming back in just now,” Harry 
said. “I landed badly on the top step, and the Cloak 
slipped.” 

Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I do that every time. Oh, here she is,” Ron added, 
craning around in his seat to watch Hermione 
reentering the kitchen. “And what in the name of 
Merlin’s most baggy Y Fronts was that about?” 

“I remembered this,” Hermione panted. 

She was carrying a large, framed picture, which she 
now lowered to the floor before seizing her small, 
beaded bag from the kitchen sideboard. Opening it, 
she proceeded to force the painting inside, and 
despite the fact that it was patently too large to fit 
inside the tiny bag, within a few seconds it had 
vanished, like so much else, into the bag’s capacious 
depths. 

“Phineas Nigellus,” Hermione explained as she threw 
the bag onto the kitchen table with the usual 
sonorous, clanking crash. 

“Sorry?” said Ron, but Harry understood. The painted 
image of Phineas Nigellus Black was able to flit 
between his portrait in Grimmauld Place and the one 
that hung in the headmaster’s office at Hogwarts: the 
circular tower-top room where Snape was no doubt 
sitting right now, in triumphant possession of 
Dumbledore’s collection of delicate, silver magical 
instruments, the stone Pensieve, the Sorting Hat and, 
unless it had been moved elsewhere, the sword of 
Gryffindor. 

“Snape could send Phineas Nigellus to look inside this 
house for him,” Hermione explained to Ron as she 
resumed her seat. “But let him try it now, all Phineas 
Nigellus will be able to see is the inside of my 
handbag.” 

“Good thinking!” said Ron, looking impressed. 



Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Thank you,” smiled Hermione, pulling her soup 
toward her. “So, Harry, what else happened today?” 

“Nothing,” said Harry. “Watched the Ministry entrance 
for seven hours. No sign of her. Saw your dad, 
though, Ron. He looks fine.” 

Ron nodded his appreciation of this news. They had 
agreed that it was far too dangerous to try and 
communicate with Mr. Weasley while he walked in 
and out of the Ministry, because he was always 
surrounded by other Ministry workers. It was, 
however, reassuring to catch these glimpses of him, 
even if he did look very strained and anxious. 

“Dad always told us most Ministry people use the 
Floo Network to get to work,” Ron said. “That’s why 
we haven’t seen Umbridge, she’d never walk, she’d 
think she’s too important.” 

“And what about that funny old witch and that little 
wizard in the navy robes?” Hermione asked. 

“Oh yeah, the bloke from Magical Maintenance,” said 
Ron. 

“How do you know he works for Magical 
Maintenance?” Hermione asked, her soupspoon 
suspended in midair. 

“Dad said everyone from Magical Maintenance wears 
navy blue robes.” 

“But you never told us that!” 

Hermione dropped her spoon and pulled toward her 
the sheaf of notes and maps that she and Ron had 
been examining when Harry had entered the kitchen. 



Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s nothing in here about navy blue robes, 
nothing!” she said, flipping feverishly through the 
pages. 

“Well, does it really matter?” 

“Ron, it all matters! If we’re going to get into the 
Ministry and not give ourselves away when they’re 
bound to be on the lookout for intruders, every little 
detail matters! We’ve been over and over this, I mean, 
what’s the point of all these reconnaissance trips if 
you aren’t even bothering to tell us — ” 

“Blimey, Hermione, I forget one little thing — ” 

“You do realize, don’t you, that there’s probably no 
more dangerous place in the whole world for us to be 
right now than the Ministry of — ” 

“I think we should do it tomorrow,” said Harry. 

Hermione stopped dead, her jaw hanging; Ron choked 
a little over his soup. 

“Tomorrow?” repeated Hermione. “You aren’t serious, 
Harry?” 

“I am,” said Harry. “I don’t think we’re going to be 
much better prepared than we are now even if we 
skulk around the Ministry entrance for another 
month. The longer we put it off, the farther away that 
locket could be. There’s already a good chance 
Umbridge has chucked it away; the thing doesn’t 
open.” 

“Unless,” said Ron, “she’s found a way of opening it 
and she’s now possessed.” 



Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Wouldn’t make any difference to her, she was so evil 
in the first place,” Harry shrugged. 

Hermione was biting her lip, deep in thought. 

“We know everything important,” Harry went on, 
addressing Hermione. “We know they’ve stopped 
Apparition in and out of the Ministry. We know only 
the most senior Ministry members are allowed to 
connect their homes to the Floo Network now, 
because Ron heard those two Unspeakables 
complaining about it. And we know roughly where 
Umbridge’s office is, because of what you heard that 
bearded bloke saying to his mate — ” 

“ ‘I’ll be up on level one, Dolores wants to see me,’ ” 
Hermione recited immediately. 

“Exactly,” said Harry. “And we know you get in using 
those funny coins, or tokens, or whatever they are, 
because I saw that witch borrowing one from her 
friend — ” 

“But we haven’t got any!” 

“If the plan works, we will have,” Harry continued 
calmly. 

“I don’t know, Harry, I don’t know. ... There are an 
awful lot of things that could go wrong, so much 
relies on chance. ...” 

“That’ll be true even if we spend another three 
months preparing,” said Harry. “It’s time to act.” 

He could tell from Ron’s and Hermione’s faces that 
they were scared; he was not particularly confident 
himself, and yet he was sure the time had come to 
put their plan into operation. 

Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




They had spent the previous four weeks taking it in 
turns to don the Invisibility Cloak and spy on the 
official entrance to the Ministry, which Ron, thanks to 
Mr. Weasley, had known since childhood. They had 
tailed Ministry workers on their way in, eavesdropped 
on their conversations, and learned by careful 
observation which of them could be relied upon to 
appear, alone, at the same time every day. 
Occasionally there had been a chance to sneak a 
Daily Prophet out of somebody’s briefcase. Slowly they 
had built up the sketchy maps and notes now stacked 
in front of Hermione. 

“All right,” said Ron slowly, “let’s say we go for it 
tomorrow. ... I think it should just be me and Harry.” 

“Oh, don’t start that again!” sighed Hermione. “I 
thought we’d settled this.” 

“It’s one thing hanging around the entrances under 
the Cloak, but this is different, Hermione.” Ron 
jabbed a finger at a copy of the Daily Prophet dated 
ten days previously. “You’re on the list of Muggle- 
borns who didn’t present themselves for 
interrogation!” 

“And you’re supposed to be dying of spattergroit at 
the Burrow! If anyone shouldn’t go, it’s Harry, he’s got 
a ten-thousand-Galleon price on his head — ” 

“Fine, I’ll stay here,” said Harry. “Let me know if you 
ever defeat Voldemort, won’t you?” 

As Ron and Hermione laughed, pain shot through the 
scar on Harry’s forehead. His hand jumped to it: He 
saw Hermione’s eyes narrow, and he tried to pass off 
the movement by brushing his hair out of his eyes. 



Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, if all three of us go well have to Disapparate 
separately,” Ron was saying. “We can’t all fit under 
the Cloak anymore.” 

Harry’s scar was becoming more and more painful. 

He stood up. At once, Kreacher hurried forward. 

“Master has not finished his soup, would Master 
prefer the savory stew, or else the treacle tart to 
which Master is so partial?” 

“Thanks, Kreacher, but I’ll be back in a minute — er 
— bathroom.” 

Aware that Hermione was watching him suspiciously, 
Harry hurried up the stairs to the hall and then to the 
first landing, where he dashed into the bathroom and 
bolted the door again. Grunting with pain, he 
slumped over the black basin with its taps in the form 
of open-mouthed serpents and closed his eyes. ... 

He was gliding along a twilit street. The buildings on 
either side of him had high, timbered gables; they 
looked like gingerbread houses. 

He approached one of them, then saw the whiteness 
of his own long-fingered hand against the door. He 
knocked. He felt a mounting excitement. ... 

The door opened: A laughing woman stood there. Her 
face fell as she looked into Harry’s face: humor gone, 
terror replacing it. ... 

“Gregorovitch?” said a high, cold voice. 

She shook her head: She was trying to close the door. 
A white hand held it steady, prevented her shutting 
him out. ... 



Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I want Gregorovitch.” 

“Er wohnt hier nicht mehr\” she cried, shaking her 
head. “He no live here! He no live here! I know him 
not!” 

Abandoning the attempt to close the door, she began 
to back away down the dark hall, and Harry followed, 
gliding toward her, and his long-fingered hand had 
drawn his wand. 

“Where is he?” 

“Das weifi ich nichti He move! I know not, I know not!” 

He raised the wand. She screamed. Two young 
children came running into the hall. She tried to 
shield them with her arms. There was a flash of green 
light — 

“Harry! HARRY!” 

He opened his eyes; he had sunk to the floor. 
Hermione was pounding on the door again. 

“Harry, open up!” 

He had shouted out, he knew it. He got up and 
unbolted the door; Hermione toppled inside at once, 
regained her balance, and looked around 
suspiciously. Ron was right behind her, looking 
unnerved as he pointed his wand into the corners of 
the chilly bathroom. 

“What were you doing?” asked Hermione sternly. 

“What d’you think I was doing?” asked Harry with 
feeble bravado. 



Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You were yelling your head off!” said Ron. 

“Oh yeah ... I must’ve dozed off or — ” 

“Harry, please don’t insult our intelligence,” said 
Hermione, taking deep breaths. “We know your scar 
hurt downstairs, and you’re white as a sheet.” 

Harry sat down on the edge of the bath. 

“Fine. I’ve just seen Voldemort murdering a woman. 
By now he’s probably killed her whole family. And he 
didn’t need to. It was Cedric all over again, they were 
just there. ...” 

“Harry, you aren’t supposed to let this happen 
anymore!” Hermione cried, her voice echoing through 
the bathroom. “Dumbledore wanted you to use 
Occlumency! He thought the connection was 
dangerous — Voldemort can use it, Harry! What good 
is it to watch him kill and torture, how can it help?” 

“Because it means I know what he’s doing,” said 
Harry. 

“So you’re not even going to try to shut him out?” 

“Hermione, I can’t. You know I’m lousy at 
Occlumency, I never got the hang of it.” 

“You never really tried!” she said hotly. “I don’t get it, 
Harry — do you like having this special connection or 
relationship or what — whatever — ” 

She faltered under the look he gave her as he stood 

up. 



“Like it?” he said quietly. “Would you like it?” 



Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“I — no — I’m sorry, Harry, I didn’t mean — ” 

“I hate it, I hate the fact that he can get inside me, 
that I have to watch him when he’s most dangerous. 
But I’m going to use it.” 

“Dumbledore — ” 

“Forget Dumbledore. This is my choice, nobody else’s. 
I want to know why he’s after Gregorovitch.” 

“Who?” 

“He’s a foreign wandmaker,” said Harry. “He made 
Krum’s wand and Krum reckons he’s brilliant.” 

“But according to you,” said Ron, “Voldemort’s got 
Ollivander locked up somewhere. If he’s already got a 
wandmaker, what does he need another one for?” 

“Maybe he agrees with Krum, maybe he thinks 
Gregorovitch is better ... or else he thinks 
Gregorovitch will be able to explain what my wand did 
when he was chasing me, because Ollivander didn’t 
know.” 

Harry glanced into the cracked, dusty mirror and saw 
Ron and Hermione exchanging skeptical looks behind 
his back. 

“Harry, you keep talking about what your wand did,” 
said Hermione, “but you made it happen! Why are 
you so determined not to take responsibility for your 
own power?” 

“Because I know it wasn’t me! And so does Voldemort, 
Hermione! We both know what really happened!” 



Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




They glared at each other: Harry knew that he had 
not convinced Hermione and that she was marshaling 
counterarguments, against both his theory on his 
wand and the fact that he was permitting himself to 
see into Voldemort’s mind. To his relief, Ron 
intervened. 

“Drop it,” he advised her. “It’s up to him. And if we’re 
going to the Ministry tomorrow, don’t you reckon we 
should go over the plan?” 

Reluctantly, as the other two could tell, Hermione let 
the matter rest, though Harry was quite sure she 
would attack again at the first opportunity. In the 
meantime, they returned to the basement kitchen, 
where Kreacher served them all stew and treacle tart. 

They did not get to bed until late that night, after 
spending hours going over and over their plan until 
they could recite it, word perfect, to each other. 

Harry, who was now sleeping in Sirius’s room, lay in 
bed with his wandlight trained on the old photograph 
of his father, Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew, and 
muttered the plan to himself for another ten minutes. 
As he extinguished his wand, however, he was 
thinking not of Polyjuice Potion, Puking Pastilles, or 
the navy blue robes of Magical Maintenance; he 
thought of Gregorovitch the wandmaker, and how 
long he could hope to remain hidden while Voldemort 
sought him so determinedly. 

Dawn seemed to follow midnight with indecent haste. 

“You look terrible,” was Ron’s greeting as he entered 
the room to wake Harry. 

“Not for long,” said Harry, yawning. 



Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




They found Hermione downstairs in the kitchen. She 
was being served coffee and hot rolls by Kreacher and 
wearing the slightly manic expression that Harry 
associated with exam review. 

“Robes,” she said under her breath, acknowledging 
their presence with a nervous nod and continuing to 
poke around in her beaded bag, “Polyjuice Potion ... 
Invisibility Cloak ... Decoy Detonators ... You should 
each take a couple just in case. ... Puking Pastilles, 
Nosebleed Nougat, Extendable Ears ...” 

They gulped down their breakfast, then set off 
upstairs, Kreacher bowing them out and promising to 
have a steak-and-kidney pie ready for them when 
they returned. 

“Bless him,” said Ron fondly, “and when you think I 
used to fantasize about cutting off his head and 
sticking it on the wall.” 

They made their way onto the front step with 
immense caution: They could see a couple of puffy- 
eyed Death Eaters watching the house from across 
the misty square. 

Hermione Disapparated with Ron first, then came 
back for Harry. 

After the usual brief spell of darkness and near 
suffocation, Harry found himself in the tiny alleyway 
where the first phase of their plan was scheduled to 
take place. It was as yet deserted, except for a couple 
of large bins; the first Ministry workers did not 
usually appear here until at least eight o’clock. 

“Right then,” said Hermione, checking her watch. 

“She ought to be here in about five minutes. When 
I’ve Stunned her — ” 

Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Hermione, we know,” said Ron sternly. “And I 
thought we were supposed to open the door before 
she got here?” 

Hermione squealed. 

“I nearly forgot! Stand back — ” 

She pointed her wand at the padlocked and heavily 
graffitied fire door beside them, which burst open 
with a crash. The dark corridor behind it led, as they 
knew from their careful scouting trips, into an empty 
theater. Hermione pulled the door back toward her, to 
make it look as though it was still closed. 

“And now,” she said, turning back to face the other 
two in the alleyway, “we put on the Cloak again — ” 

“ — and we wait,” Ron finished, throwing it over 
Hermione ’s head like a blanket over a birdcage and 
rolling his eyes at Harry. 

Little more than a minute later, there was a tiny pop 
and a little Ministry witch with flyaway gray hair 
Apparated feet from them, blinking a little in the 
sudden brightness; the sun had just come out from 
behind a cloud. She barely had time to enjoy the 
unexpected warmth, however, before Hermione ’s 
silent Stunning Spell hit her in the chest and she 
toppled over. 

“Nicely done, Hermione,” said Ron, emerging from 
behind a bin beside the theater door as Harry took off 
the Invisibility Cloak. Together they carried the little 
witch into the dark passageway that led backstage. 
Hermione plucked a few hairs from the witch’s head 
and added them to a flask of muddy Polyjuice Potion 
she had taken from the beaded bag. Ron was 
rummaging through the little witch’s handbag. 

Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s Mafalda Hopkirk,” he said, reading a small 
card that identified their victim as an assistant in the 
Improper Use of Magic Office. “You’d better take this, 
Hermione, and here are the tokens.” 

He passed her several small golden coins, all 
embossed with the letters M.O.M., which he had 
taken from the witch’s purse. 

Hermione drank the Polyjuice Potion, which was now 
a pleasant heliotrope color, and within seconds stood 
before them, the double of Mafalda Hopkirk. As she 
removed Mafalda’s spectacles and put them on, Harry 
checked his watch. 

“We’re running late, Mr. Magical Maintenance will be 
here any second.” 

They hurried to close the door on the real Mafalda; 
Harry and Ron threw the Invisibility Cloak over 
themselves but Hermione remained in view, waiting. 
Seconds later there was another pop, and a small, 
ferrety-looking wizard appeared before them. 

“Oh, hello, Mafalda.” 

“Hello!” said Hermione in a quavery voice. “How are 
you today?” 

“Not so good, actually,” replied the little wizard, who 
looked thoroughly downcast. 

As Hermione and the wizard headed for the main 
road, Harry and Ron crept along behind them. 

“I’m sorry to hear you’re under the weather,” said 
Hermione, talking firmly over the little wizard as he 
tried to expound upon his problems; it was essential 



Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




to stop him from reaching the street. “Here, have a 
sweet.” 

“Eh? Oh, no thanks — ” 

“I insist!” said Hermione aggressively, shaking the bag 
of pastilles in his face. Looking rather alarmed, the 
little wizard took one. 

The effect was instantaneous. The moment the 
pastille touched his tongue, the little wizard started 
vomiting so hard that he did not even notice as 
Hermione yanked a handful of hairs from the top of 
his head. 

“Oh dear!” she said, as he splattered the alley with 
sick. “Perhaps you’d better take the day off!” 

“No — no!” He choked and retched, trying to continue 
on his way despite being unable to walk straight. “I 
must — today — must go — ” 

“But that’s just silly!” said Hermione, alarmed. “You 
can’t go to work in this state — I think you ought to 
go to St. Mungo’s and get them to sort you out!” 

The wizard had collapsed, heaving, onto all fours, still 
trying to crawl toward the main street. 

“You simply can’t go to work like this!” cried 
Hermione. 

At last he seemed to accept the truth of her words. 
Using a repulsed Hermione to claw his way back into 
a standing position, he turned on the spot and 
vanished, leaving nothing behind but the bag Ron 
had snatched from his hand as he went and some 
flying chunks of vomit. 



Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 
