toward them, and forced his way in between them. 

“Where’ve you — blimey, what’ve you done to your 
face?” said Ron, goggling at him along with everyone 
else in the vicinity. 

“Why, what’s wrong with it?” said Harry, grabbing a 
spoon and squinting at his distorted reflection. 

“You’re covered in blood!” said Hermione. “Come here 



She raised her wand, said “Tergeol” and siphoned off 
the dried blood. 

“Thanks,” said Harry, feeling his now clean face. 
“How’s my nose looking?” 

“Normal,” said Hermione anxiously. “Why shouldn’t 
it? Harry, what happened? We’ve been terrified!” 

“I’ll tell you later,” said Harry curtly. He was very 
conscious that Ginny, Neville, Dean, and Seamus 
were listening in; even Nearly Headless Nick, the 
Gryffindor ghost, had come floating along the bench 
to eavesdrop. 

“But — ” said Hermione. 



Page | 181 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Not now, Hermione,” said Harry, in a darkly 
significant voice. He hoped very much that they would 
all assume he had been involved in something heroic, 
preferably involving a couple of Death Eaters and a 
dementor. Of course, Malfoy would spread the story 
as far and wide as he could, but there was always a 
chance it wouldn’t reach too many Gryffindor ears. 

He reached across Ron for a couple of chicken legs 
and a handful of chips, but before he could take them 
they vanished, to be replaced with puddings. 

“You missed the Sorting, anyway,” said Hermione, as 
Ron dived for a large chocolate gateau. 

“Hat say anything interesting?” asked Harry, taking a 
piece of treacle tart. 

“More of the same, really ... advising us all to unite in 
the face of our enemies, you know.” 

“Dumbledore mentioned Voldemort at all?” 

“Not yet, but he always saves his proper speech for 
after the feast, doesn’t he? It can’t be long now.” 

“Snape said Hagrid was late for the feast — ” 

“You’ve seen Snape? How come?” said Ron between 
frenzied mouthfuls of gateau. 

“Bumped into him,” said Harry evasively. 

“Hagrid was only a few minutes late,” said Hermione. 
“Look, he’s waving at you, Harry.” 

Harry looked up at the staff table and grinned at 
Hagrid, who was indeed waving at him. Hagrid had 
never quite managed to comport himself with the 

Page | 182 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




dignity of Professor McGonagall, Head of Gryffindor 
House, the top of whose head came up to somewhere 
between Hagrid’s elbow and shoulder as they were 
sitting side by side, and who was looking 
disapprovingly at this enthusiastic greeting. Harry 
was surprised to see the Divination teacher, Professor 
Trelawney, sitting on Hagrid’s other side; she rarely 
left her tower room, and he had never seen her at the 
start-of-term feast before. She looked as odd as ever, 
glittering with beads and trailing shawls, her eyes 
magnified to enormous size by her spectacles. Having 
always considered her a bit of a fraud, Harry had 
been shocked to discover at the end of the previous 
term that it had been she who had made the 
prediction that caused Lord Voldemort to kill Harry’s 
parents and attack Harry himself. The knowledge had 
made him even less eager to find himself in her 
company, but thankfully, this year he would be 
dropping Divination. Her great beaconlike eyes 
swiveled in his direction; he hastily looked away 
toward the Slytherin table. Draco Malfoy was miming 
the shattering of a nose to raucous laughter and 
applause. Harry dropped his gaze to his treacle tart, 
his insides burning again. What he would not give to 
fight Malfoy one-on-one . . . 

“So what did Professor Slughorn want?” Hermione 
asked. 

“To know what really happened at the Ministry,” said 
Harry. 

“Him and everyone else here,” sniffed Hermione. 
“People were interrogating us about it on the train, 
weren’t they, Ron?” 

“Yeah,” said Ron. “All wanting to know if you really 
are ‘the Chosen One’ — ” 



Page | 183 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“There has been much talk on that very subject even 
amongst the ghosts,” interrupted Nearly Headless 
Nick, inclining his barely connected head toward 
Harry so that it wobbled dangerously on its ruff. “I am 
considered something of a Potter authority; it is 
widely known that we are friendly. I have assured the 
spirit community that I will not pester you for 
information, however. ‘Harry Potter knows that he 
can confide in me with complete confidence/ I told 
them. ‘I would rather die than betray his trust.’ ” 

“That’s not saying much, seeing as you’re already 
dead,” Ron observed. 

“Once again, you show all the sensitivity of a blunt 
axe,” said Nearly Headless Nick in affronted tones, 
and he rose into the air and glided back toward the 
far end of the Gryffindor table just as Dumbledore got 
to his feet at the staff table. The talk and laughter 
echoing around the Hall died away almost instantly. 

“The very best of evenings to you!” he said, smiling 
broadly, his arms opened wide as though to embrace 
the whole room. 

“What happened to his hand?” gasped Hermione. 

She was not the only one who had noticed. 
Dumbledore ’s right hand was as blackened and dead- 
looking as it had been on the night he had come to 
fetch Harry from the Dursleys. Whispers swept the 
room; Dumbledore, interpreting them correctly, 
merely smiled and shook his purple-and-gold sleeve 
over his injury. 

“Nothing to worry about,” he said airily. “Now ... to 
our new students, welcome, to our old students, 
welcome back! Another year full of magical education 
awaits you ...” 

Page | 184 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“His hand was like that when I saw him over the 
summer,” Harry whispered to Hermione. “I thought 
he’d have cured it by now, though ... or Madam 
Pomfrey would’ve done.” 

“It looks as if it’s died,” said Hermione, with a 
nauseated expression. “But there are some injuries 
you can’t cure ... old curses ... and there are poisons 
without antidotes. ...” 

"... and Mr. Filch, our caretaker, has asked me to say 
that there is a blanket ban on any joke items bought 
at the shop called Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes. 

“Those wishing to play for their House Quidditch 
teams should give their names to their Heads of 
House as usual. We are also looking for new 
Quidditch commentators, who should do likewise. 

“We are pleased to welcome a new member of staff 
this year. Professor Slughorn” — Slughorn stood up, 
his bald head gleaming in the candlelight, his big 
waistcoated belly casting the table below into shadow 
— “is a former colleague of mine who has agreed to 
resume his old post of Potions master.” 

“Potions?” 

“Potions?” 

The word echoed all over the Hall as people wondered 
whether they had heard right. 

“Potions?” said Ron and Hermione together, turning 
to stare at Harry. “But you said — ” 

“Professor Snape, meanwhile,” said Dumbledore, 
raising his voice so that it carried over all the 



Page | 185 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




muttering, “will be taking over the position of Defense 
Against the Dark Arts teacher.” 



“No!” said Harry, so loudly that many heads turned in 
his direction. He did not care; he was staring up at 
the staff table, incensed. How could Snape be given 
the Defense Against the Dark Arts job after all this 
time? Hadn’t it been widely known for years that 
Dumbledore did not trust him to do it? 

“But Harry, you said that Slughorn was going to be 
teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts!” said 
Hermione. 

“I thought he was!” said Harry, racking his brains to 
remember when Dumbledore had told him this, but 
now that he came to think of it, he was unable to 
recall Dumbledore ever telling him what Slughorn 
would be teaching. 

Snape, who was sitting on Dumbledore’s right, did 
not stand up at the mention of his name; he merely 
raised a hand in lazy acknowledgment of the applause 
from the Slytherin table, yet Harry was sure he could 
detect a look of triumph on the features he loathed so 
much. 

“Well, there’s one good thing,” he said savagely. 

“Snape ’ll be gone by the end of the year.” 

“What do you mean?” asked Ron. 

“That job’s jinxed. No one’s lasted more than a year. 

... Quirrell actually died doing it. ... Personally, I’m 
going to keep my fingers crossed for another death. 



“Harry!” said Hermione, shocked and reproachful. 

Page | 186 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“He might just go back to teaching Potions at the end 
of the year,” said Ron reasonably. “That Slughorn 
bloke might not want to stay long-term. Moody 
didn’t.” 

Dumbledore cleared his throat. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione were not the only ones who had been 
talking; the whole Hall had erupted in a buzz of 
conversation at the news that Snape had finally 
achieved his heart’s desire. Seemingly oblivious to the 
sensational nature of the news he had just imparted, 
Dumbledore said nothing more about staff 
appointments, but waited a few seconds to ensure 
that the silence was absolute before continuing. 

“Now, as everybody in this Hall knows, Lord 
Voldemort and his followers are once more at large 
and gaining in strength.” 

The silence seemed to tauten and strain as 
Dumbledore spoke. Harry glanced at Malfoy. Malfoy 
was not looking at Dumbledore, but making his fork 
hover in midair with his wand, as though he found 
the headmaster’s words unworthy of his attention. 

“I cannot emphasize strongly enough how dangerous 
the present situation is, and how much care each of 
us at Hogwarts must take to ensure that we remain 
safe. The castle’s magical fortifications have been 
strengthened over the summer, we are protected in 
new and more powerful ways, but we must still guard 
scrupulously against carelessness on the part of any 
student or member of staff. I urge you, therefore, to 
abide by any security restrictions that your teachers 
might impose upon you, however irksome you might 
find them — in particular, the rule that you are not to 
be out of bed after hours. I implore you, should you 
notice anything strange or suspicious within or 
outside the castle, to report it to a member of staff 
Page | 187 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




immediately. I trust you to conduct yourselves, 
always, with the utmost regard for your own and 
others’ safety.” 

Dumbledore’s blue eyes swept over the students 
before he smiled once more. 

“But now, your beds await, as warm and comfortable 
as you could possibly wish, and I know that your top 
priority is to be well-rested for your lessons tomorrow. 
Let us therefore say good night. Pip pip!” 

With the usual deafening scraping noise, the benches 
were moved back and the hundreds of students began 
to file out of the Great Hall toward their dormitories. 
Harry, who was in no hurry at all to leave with the 
gawping crowd, nor to get near enough to Malfoy to 
allow him to retell the story of the nose-stamping, 
lagged behind, pretending to retie the lace on his 
trainer, allowing most of the Gryffindors to draw 
ahead of him. Hermione had darted ahead to fulfill 
her prefect’s duty of shepherding the first years, but 
Ron remained with Harry. 

“What really happened to your nose?” he asked, once 
they were at the very back of the throng pressing out 
of the Hall, and out of earshot of anyone else. 

Harry told him. It was a mark of the strength of their 
friendship that Ron did not laugh. 

“I saw Malfoy miming something to do with a nose,” 
he said darkly. 

“Yeah, well, never mind that,” said Harry bitterly. 
“Listen to what he was saying before he found out I 
was there. ...” 



Page | 188 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had expected Ron to be stunned by Malfoy’s 
boasts. With what Harry considered pure 
pigheadedness, however, Ron was unimpressed. 

“Come on, Harry, he was just showing off for 
Parkinson. ... What kind of mission would You-Know- 
Who have given him?” 

“How d’you know Voldemort doesn’t need someone at 
Hogwarts? It wouldn’t be the first — ” 

“I wish yeh’d stop sayin’ tha’ name, Harry,” said a 
reproachful voice behind them. Harry looked over his 
shoulder to see Hagrid shaking his head. 

“Dumbledore uses that name,” said Harry stubbornly. 

“Yeah, well, tha’s Dumbledore, innit?” said Hagrid 
mysteriously. “So how come yeh were late, Harry? I 
was worried.” 

“Got held up on the train,” said Harry. “Why were you 
late?” 

“I was with Grawp,” said Hagrid happily. “Los’ track o’ 
the time. He’s got a new home up in the mountains 
now, Dumbledore fixed it — nice big cave. He’s much 
happier than he was in the forest. We were havin’ a 
good chat.” 

“Really?” said Harry, taking care not to catch Ron’s 
eye; the last time he had met Hagrid’s half-brother, a 
vicious giant with a talent for ripping up trees by the 
roots, his vocabulary had comprised five words, two of 
which he was unable to pronounce properly. 

“Oh yeah, he’s really come on,” said Hagrid proudly. 
“Yeh’ll be amazed. I’m thinkin’ o’ trainin’ him up as 
me assistant.” 

Page | 189 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron snorted loudly, but managed to pass it off as a 
violent sneeze. They were now standing beside the 
oak front doors. 

“Anyway, I’ll see yeh tomorrow, firs’ lesson’s straight 
after lunch. Come early an’ yeh can say hello ter Buck 
— I mean, Witherwings!” 

Raising an arm in cheery farewell, he headed out of 
the front doors into the darkness. 

Harry and Ron looked at each other. Harry could tell 
that Ron was experiencing the same sinking feeling as 
himself. 

“You’re not taking Care of Magical Creatures, are 
you?” 

Ron shook his head. “And you’re not either, are you?” 

Harry shook his head too. 

“And Hermione,” said Ron, “she’s not, is she?” 

Harry shook his head again. Exactly what Hagrid 
would say when he realized his three favorite 
students had given up his subject, he did not like to 
think. 



Page | 190 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




9 




THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE 

Harry and Ron met Hermione in the common room 
before breakfast next morning. Hoping for some 
support for his theory, Harry lost no time in telling 
Hermione what he had overheard Malfoy saying on 
the Hogwarts Express. 

“But he was obviously showing off for Parkinson, 
wasn’t he?” interjected Ron quickly, before Hermione 
could say anything. 

“Well,” she said uncertainly, “I don’t know. ... It would 
be like Malfoy to make himself seem more important 
than he is ... but that’s a big lie to tell. ...” 

“Exactly,” said Harry, but he could not press the 
point, because so many people were trying to listen in 
to his conversation, not to mention staring at him and 
whispering behind their hands. 

“It’s rude to point,” Ron snapped at a particularly 
minuscule first-year boy as they joined the queue to 
climb out of the portrait hole. The boy, who had been 

Page | 191 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



muttering something about Harry behind his hand to 
his friend, promptly turned scarlet and toppled out of 
the hole in alarm. Ron sniggered. 

“I love being a sixth year. And we’re going to be 
getting free time this year. Whole periods when we 
can just sit up here and relax.” 

“We’re going to need that time for studying, Ron!” said 
Hermione, as they set off down the corridor. 

“Yeah, but not today,” said Ron. “Today’s going to be 
a real doss, I reckon.” 

“Hold it!” said Hermione, throwing out an arm and 
halting a passing fourth year, who was attempting to 
push past her with a lime-green disk clutched tightly 
in his hand. “Fanged Frisbees are banned, hand it 
over,” she told him sternly. The scowling boy handed 
over the snarling Frisbee, ducked under her arm, and 
took off after his friends. Ron waited for him to 
vanish, then tugged the Frisbee from Hermione ’s grip. 

“Excellent, I’ve always wanted one of these.” 

Hermione ’s remonstration was drowned by a loud 
giggle; Lavender Brown had apparently found Ron’s 
remark highly amusing. She continued to laugh as 
she passed them, glancing back at Ron over her 
shoulder. Ron looked rather pleased with himself. 

The ceiling of the Great Hall was serenely blue and 
streaked with frail, wispy clouds, just like the squares 
of sky visible through the high mullioned windows. 
While they tucked into porridge and eggs and bacon, 
Harry and Ron told Hermione about their 
embarrassing conversation with Hagrid the previous 
evening. 



Page | 192 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But he can’t really think we’d continue Care of 
Magical Creatures!” she said, looking distressed. “I 
mean, when has any of us expressed ... you know ... 
any enthusiasm?” 

“That’s it, though, innit?” said Ron, swallowing an 
entire fried egg whole. “We were the ones who made 
the most effort in classes because we like Hagrid. But 
he thinks we liked the stupid subject D’you reckon 
anyone’s going to go on to N.E.W.T.?” 

Neither Harry nor Hermione answered; there was no 
need. They knew perfectly well that nobody in their 
year would want to continue Care of Magical 
Creatures. They avoided Hagrid’s eye and returned 
his cheery wave only halfheartedly when he left the 
staff table ten minutes later. 

After they had eaten, they remained in their places, 
awaiting Professor McGonagall’s descent from the 
staff table. The distribution of class schedules was 
more complicated than usual this year, for Professor 
McGonagall needed first to confirm that everybody 
had achieved the necessary O.W.L. grades to continue 
with their chosen N.E.W.T.s. 

Hermione was immediately cleared to continue with 
Charms, Defense Against the Dark Arts, 
Transfiguration, Herbology, Arithmancy, Ancient 
Runes, and Potions, and shot off to a first-period 
Ancient Runes class without further ado. Neville took 
a little longer to sort out; his round face was anxious 
as Professor McGonagall looked down his application 
and then consulted his O.W.L. results. 

“Herbology, fine,” she said. “Professor Sprout will be 
delighted to see you back with an ‘Outstanding’ 

O.W.L. And you qualify for Defense Against the Dark 
Arts with ‘Exceeds Expectations.’ But the problem is 

Page | 193 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Transfiguration. I’m sorry, Longbottom, but an 
Acceptable’ really isn’t good enough to continue to 
N.E.W.T level. I just don’t think you’d be able to cope 
with the coursework.” 

Neville hung his head. Professor McGonagall peered 
at him through her square spectacles. 

“Why do you want to continue with Transfiguration, 
anyway? I’ve never had the impression that you 
particularly enjoyed it.” 

Neville looked miserable and muttered something 
about “my grandmother wants.” 

“Hmph,” snorted Professor McGonagall. “It’s high time 
your grandmother learned to be proud of the 
grandson she’s got, rather than the one she thinks 
she ought to have — particularly after what happened 
at the Ministry.” 

Neville turned very pink and blinked confusedly; 
Professor McGonagall had never paid him a 
compliment before. 

“I’m sorry, Longbottom, but I cannot let you into my 
N.E.W.T. class. I see that you have an ‘Exceeds 
Expectations’ in Charms, however — why not try for a 
N.E.W.T. in Charms?” 

“My grandmother thinks Charms is a soft option,” 
mumbled Neville. 

“Take Charms,” said Professor McGonagall, “and I 
shall drop Augusta a line reminding her that just 
because she failed her Charms O.W.L., the subject is 
not necessarily worthless.” Smiling slightly at the look 
of delighted incredulity on Neville’s face, Professor 
McGonagall tapped a blank schedule with the tip of 
Page | 194 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




her wand and handed it, now carrying details of his 
new classes, to Neville. 

Professor McGonagall turned next to Parvati Patil, 
whose first question was whether Firenze, the 
handsome centaur, was still teaching Divination. 

“He and Professor Trelawney are dividing classes 
between them this year,” said Professor McGonagall, 
a hint of disapproval in her voice; it was common 
knowledge that she despised the subject of 
Divination. “The sixth year is being taken by Professor 
Trelawney.” 

Parvati set off for Divination five minutes later looking 
slightly crestfallen. 

“So, Potter, Potter ...” said Professor McGonagall, 
consulting her notes as she turned to Harry. 

“Charms, Defense Against the Dark Arts, Herbology, 
Transfiguration ... all fine. I must say, I was pleased 
with your Transfiguration mark, Potter, very pleased. 
Now, why haven’t you applied to continue with 
Potions? I thought it was your ambition to become an 
Auror?” 

“It was, but you told me I had to get an ‘Outstanding’ 
in my O.W.L., Professor.” 

“And so you did when Professor Snape was teaching 
the subject. Professor Slughorn, however, is perfectly 
happy to accept N.E.W.T students with ‘Exceeds 
Expectations’ at O.W.L. Do you wish to proceed with 
Potions?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, “but I didn’t buy the books or any 
ingredients or anything — ” 



Page | 195 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I’m sure Professor Slughorn will be able to lend you 
some,” said Professor McGonagall. “Very well, Potter, 
here is your schedule. Oh, by the way — twenty 
hopefuls have already put down their names for the 
Gryffindor Quidditch team. I shall pass the list to you 
in due course and you can fix up trials at your 
leisure.” 

A few minutes later, Ron was cleared to do the same 
subjects as Harry, and the two of them left the table 
together. 

“Look,” said Ron delightedly, gazing at his schedule, 
“we’ve got a free period now ... and a free period after 
break ... and after lunch ... excellent.” 

They returned to the common room, which was empty 
apart from a half dozen seventh years, including Katie 
Bell, the only remaining member of the original 
Gryffindor Quidditch team that Harry had joined in 
his first year. 

“I thought you’d get that, well done,” she called over, 
pointing at the Captain’s badge on Harry’s chest. “Tell 
me when you call trials!” 

“Don’t be stupid,” said Harry, “you don’t need to try 
out, I’ve watched you play for five years. ...” 

“You mustn’t start off like that,” she said warningly. 
“For all you know, there’s someone much better than 
me out there. Good teams have been ruined before 
now because Captains just kept playing the old faces, 
or letting in their friends. ...” 

Ron looked a little uncomfortable and began playing 
with the Fanged Frisbee Hermione had taken from the 
fourth-year student. It zoomed around the common 
room, snarling and attempting to take bites of the 

Page | 196 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




tapestry. Crookshanks’s yellow eyes followed it and he 
hissed when it came too close. 

An hour later they reluctantly left the sunlit common 
room for the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom 
four floors below. Hermione was already queuing 
outside, carrying an armful of heavy books and 
looking put-upon. 

“We got so much homework for Runes,” she said 
anxiously, when Harry and Ron joined her. “A fifteen- 
inch essay, two translations, and I’ve got to read 
these by Wednesday!” 

“Shame,” yawned Ron. 

“You wait,” she said resentfully. “I bet Snape gives us 
loads.” 

The classroom door opened as she spoke, and Snape 
stepped into the corridor, his sallow face framed as 
ever by two curtains of greasy black hair. Silence fell 
over the queue immediately. 

“Inside,” he said. 

Harry looked around as they entered. Snape had 
imposed his personality upon the room already; it 
was gloomier than usual, as curtains had been drawn 
over the windows, and was lit by candlelight. New 
pictures adorned the walls, many of them showing 
people who appeared to be in pain, sporting grisly 
injuries or strangely contorted body parts. Nobody 
spoke as they settled down, looking around at the 
shadowy, gruesome pictures. 

“I have not asked you to take out your books,” said 
Snape, closing the door and moving to face the class 
from behind his desk; Hermione hastily dropped her 

Page | 197 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




copy of Confronting the Faceless back into her bag 
and stowed it under her chair. “I wish to speak to 
you, and I want your fullest attention.” 

His black eyes roved over their upturned faces, 
lingering for a fraction of a second longer on Harry’s 
than anyone else’s. 

“You have had five teachers in this subject so far, I 
believe.” 

You believe ... like you haven’t watched them all come 
and go, Snape, hoping you’d be next, thought Harry 
scathingly. 

“Naturally, these teachers will all have had their own 
methods and priorities. Given this confusion I am 
surprised so many of you scraped an O.W.L. in this 
subject. I shall be even more surprised if all of you 
manage to keep up with the N.E.W.T. work, which will 
be much more advanced.” 

Snape set off around the edge of the room, speaking 
now in a lower voice; the class craned their necks to 
keep him in view. 

“The Dark Arts,” said Snape, “are many, varied, ever- 
changing, and eternal. Fighting them is like fighting a 
many-headed monster, which, each time a neck is 
severed, sprouts a head even fiercer and cleverer than 
before. You are fighting that which is unfixed, 
mutating, indestructible.” 

Harry stared at Snape. It was surely one thing to 
respect the Dark Arts as a dangerous enemy, another 
to speak of them, as Snape was doing, with a loving 
caress in his voice? 



Page | 198 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Your defenses,” said Snape, a little louder, “must 
therefore be as flexible and inventive as the arts you 
seek to undo. These pictures” — he indicated a few of 
them as he swept past — “give a fair representation of 
what happens to those who suffer, for instance, the 
Cruciatus Curse” — he waved a hand toward a witch 
who was clearly shrieking in agony — “feel the 
Dementor’s Kiss” — a wizard lying huddled and 
blank-eyed, slumped against a wall — “or provoke the 
aggression of the Inferius” — a bloody mass upon the 
ground. 

“Has an Inferius been seen, then?” said Parvati Patil 
in a high-pitched voice. “Is it definite, is he using 
them?” 

“The Dark Lord has used Inferi in the past,” said 
Snape, “which means you would be well-advised to 
assume he might use them again. Now ...” 

He set off again around the other side of the 
classroom toward his desk, and again, they watched 
him as he walked, his dark robes billowing behind 
him. 

"... you are, I believe, complete novices in the use of 
nonverbal spells. What is the advantage of a 
nonverbal spell?” 

Hermione’s hand shot into the air. Snape took his 
time looking around at everybody else, making sure 
he had no choice, before saying curtly, “Very well — 
Miss Granger?” 

“Your adversary has no warning about what kind of 
magic you’re about to perform,” said Hermione, 

“which gives you a split-second advantage.” 



Page | 199 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“An answer copied almost word for word from The 
Standard Book of Spells, Grade Six,” said Snape 
dismissively (over in the corner, Malfoy sniggered), 
“but correct in essentials. Yes, those who progress to 
using magic without shouting incantations gain an 
element of surprise in their spell-casting. Not all 
wizards can do this, of course; it is a question of 
concentration and mind power which some” — his 
gaze lingered maliciously upon Harry once more — 
“lack.” 

Harry knew Snape was thinking of their disastrous 
Occlumency lessons of the previous year. He refused 
to drop his gaze, but glowered at Snape until Snape 
looked away. 

“You will now divide,” Snape went on, “into pairs. One 
partner will attempt to jinx the other without 
speaking. The other will attempt to repel the jinx in 
equal silence. Carry on.” 

Although Snape did not know it, Harry had taught at 
least half the class (everyone who had been a member 
of the D.A.) how to perform a Shield Charm the 
previous year. None of them had ever cast the charm 
without speaking, however. A reasonable amount of 
cheating ensued; many people were merely 
whispering the incantation instead of saying it aloud. 
Typically, ten minutes into the lesson Hermione 
managed to repel Neville’s muttered Jelly-Legs Jinx 
without uttering a single word, a feat that would 
surely have earned her twenty points for Gryffindor 
from any reasonable teacher, thought Harry bitterly, 
but which Snape ignored. He swept between them as 
they practiced, looking just as much like an 
overgrown bat as ever, lingering to watch Harry and 
Ron struggling with the task. 



Page | 200 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Ron, who was supposed to be jinxing Harry, was 
purple in the face, his lips tightly compressed to save 
himself from the temptation of muttering the 
incantation. Harry had his wand raised, waiting on 
tenterhooks to repel a jinx that seemed unlikely ever 
to come. 

“Pathetic, Weasley,” said Snape, after a while. “Here 
— let me show you — ” 

He turned his wand on Harry so fast that Harry 
reacted instinctively; all thought of nonverbal spells 
forgotten, he yelled, “Protegol” 

His Shield Charm was so strong Snape was knocked 
off-balance and hit a desk. The whole class had 
looked around and now watched as Snape righted 
himself, scowling. 

“Do you remember me telling you we are practicing 
nonverbal spells, Potter?” 

“Yes,” said Harry stiffly. 

“Yes, sir.” 

“There’s no need to call me ‘sir,’ Professor.” 

The words had escaped him before he knew what he 
was saying. Several people gasped, including 
Hermione. Behind Snape, however, Ron, Dean, and 
Seamus grinned appreciatively. 

“Detention, Saturday night, my office,” said Snape. “I 
do not take cheek from anyone, Potter ... not even ‘the 
Chosen One. ’ ” 

“That was brilliant, Harry!” chortled Ron, once they 
were safely on their way to break a short while later. 

Page | 201 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




“You really shouldn’t have said it,” said Hermione, 
frowning at Ron. “What made you?” 



“He tried to jinx me, in case you didn’t notice!” fumed 
Harry. “I had enough of that during those 
Occlumency lessons! Why doesn’t he use another 
guinea pig for a change? What’s Dumbledore playing 
at, anyway, letting him teach Defense? Did you hear 
him talking about the Dark Arts? He loves them! All 
that unfixed, indestructible stuff — ” 

“Well,” said Hermione, “I thought he sounded a bit 
like you.” 

“Like me?” 

“Yes, when you were telling us what it’s like to face 
Voldemort. You said it wasn’t just memorizing a 
bunch of spells, you said it was just you and your 
brains and your guts — well, wasn’t that what Snape 
was saying? That it really comes down to being brave 
and quick-thinking?” 

Harry was so disarmed that she had thought his 
words as well worth memorizing as The Standard 
Book of Spells that he did not argue. 

“Harry! Hey, Harry!” 

Harry looked around; Jack Sloper, one of the Beaters 
on last year’s Gryffindor Quidditch team, was 
hurrying toward him holding a roll of parchment. 

“For you,” panted Sloper. “Listen, I heard you’re the 
new Captain. When’re you holding trials?” 

“I’m not sure yet,” said Harry, thinking privately that 
Sloper would be very lucky to get back on the team. 
“I’ll let you know.” 

Page | 202 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, right. I was hoping it’d be this weekend — ” 



But Harry was not listening; he had just recognized 
the thin, slanting writing on the parchment. Leaving 
Sloper in mid-sentence, he hurried away with Ron 
and Hermione, unrolling the parchment as he went. 

Dear Harry, 

I would like to start our private lessons this Saturday. 
Kindly come along to my office at 8 p.m. I hope you are 
enjoying your first day back at school. 

Yours sincerely, 

Albus Dumbledore 

P. S. I enjoy Acid Pops. 

“He enjoys Acid Pops?” said Ron, who had read the 
message over Harry’s shoulder and was looking 
perplexed. 

“It’s the password to get past the gargoyle outside his 
study,” said Harry in a low voice. “Ha! Snape’s not 
going to be pleased. ... I won’t be able to do his 
