


      CHAPTER II SOAMES PUTS IT TO THE TOUCH


      Of all those radiant firms which emblazon with their windows the
      West End of London, Gaves and Cortegal were considered by Soames
      the most “attractive” word just coming into fashion. He had never
      had his Uncle Swithin’s taste in precious stones, and the
      abandonment by Irene when she left his house in 1887 of all the
      glittering things he had given her had disgusted him with this
      form of investment. But he still knew a diamond when he saw one,
      and during the week before her birthday he had taken occasion, on
      his way into the Poultry or his way out therefrom, to dally a
      little before the greater jewellers where one got, if not one’s
      money’s worth, at least a certain cachet with the goods.

      Constant cogitation since his drive with Jolyon had convinced him
      more and more of the supreme importance of this moment in his
      life, the supreme need for taking steps and those not wrong. And,
      alongside the dry and reasoned sense that it was now or never
      with his self-preservation, now or never if he were to range
      himself and found a family, went the secret urge of his senses
      roused by the sight of her who had once been a passionately
      desired wife, and the conviction that it was a sin against common
      sense and the decent secrecy of Forsytes to waste the wife he
      had.

      In an opinion on Winifred’s case, Dreamer, Q.C.—he would much
      have preferred Waterbuck, but they had made him a judge (so late
      in the day as to rouse the usual suspicion of a political
      job)—had advised that they should go forward and obtain
      restitution of conjugal rights, a point which to Soames had never
      been in doubt. When they had obtained a decree to that effect
      they must wait to see if it was obeyed. If not, it would
      constitute legal desertion, and they should obtain evidence of
      misconduct and file their petition for divorce. All of which
      Soames knew perfectly well. They had marked him ten and one. This
      simplicity in his sister’s case only made him the more desperate
      about the difficulty in his own. Everything, in fact, was driving
      him towards the simple solution of Irene’s return. If it were
      still against the grain with her, had _he_ not feelings to
      subdue, injury to forgive, pain to forget? He at least had never
      injured her, and this was a world of compromise! He could offer
      her so much more than she had now. He would be prepared to make a
      liberal settlement on her which could not be upset. He often
      scrutinised his image in these days. He had never been a peacock
      like that fellow Dartie, or fancied himself a woman’s man, but he
      had a certain belief in his own appearance—not unjustly, for it
      was well-coupled and preserved, neat, healthy, pale, unblemished
      by drink or excess of any kind. The Forsyte jaw and the
      concentration of his face were, in his eyes, virtues. So far as
      he could tell there was no feature of him which need inspire
      dislike.

      Thoughts and yearnings, with which one lives daily, become
      natural, even if far-fetched in their inception. If he could only
      give tangible proof enough of his determination to let bygones be
      bygones, and to do all in his power to please her, why should she
      not come back to him?

      He entered Gaves and Cortegal’s therefore, on the morning of
      November the 9th, to buy a certain diamond brooch. “Four
      twenty-five and dirt cheap, sir, at the money. It’s a lady’s
      brooch.” There was that in his mood which made him accept without
      demur. And he went on into the Poultry with the flat green
      morocco case in his breast pocket. Several times that day he
      opened it to look at the seven soft shining stones in their
      velvet oval nest.

      “If the lady doesn’t like it, sir, happy to exchange it any time.
      But there’s no fear of that.” If only there were not! He got
      through a vast amount of work, only soother of the nerves he
      knew. A cablegram came while he was in the office with details
      from the agent in Buenos Aires, and the name and address of a
      stewardess who would be prepared to swear to what was necessary.
      It was a timely spur to Soames, with his rooted distaste for the
      washing of dirty linen in public. And when he set forth by
      Underground to Victoria Station he received a fresh impetus
      towards the renewal of his married life from the account in his
      evening paper of a fashionable divorce suit. The homing instinct
      of all true Forsytes in anxiety and trouble, the corporate
      tendency which kept them strong and solid, made him choose to
      dine at Park Lane. He neither could nor would breathe a word to
      his people of his intention—too reticent and proud—but the
      thought that at least they would be glad if they knew, and wish
      him luck, was heartening.

      James was in lugubrious mood, for the fire which the impudence of
      Kruger’s ultimatum had lit in him had been cold-watered by the
      poor success of the last month, and the exhortations to effort in
      _The Times_. He didn’t know where it would end. Soames sought to
      cheer him by the continual use of the word Buller. But James
      couldn’t tell! There was Colley—and he got stuck on that hill,
      and this Ladysmith was down in a hollow, and altogether it looked
      to him a “pretty kettle of fish”; he thought they ought to be
      sending the sailors—they were the chaps, they did a lot of good
      in the Crimea. Soames shifted the ground of consolation. Winifred
      had heard from Val that there had been a “rag” and a bonfire on
      Guy Fawkes Day at Oxford, and that he had escaped detection by
      blacking his face.

      “Ah!” James muttered, “he’s a clever little chap.” But he shook
      his head shortly afterwards and remarked that he didn’t know what
      would become of him, and looking wistfully at his son, murmured
      on that Soames had never had a boy. He would have liked a
      grandson of his own name. And now—well, there it was!

      Soames flinched. He had not expected such a challenge to disclose
      the secret in his heart. And Emily, who saw him wince, said:

      “Nonsense, James; don’t talk like that!”

      But James, not looking anyone in the face, muttered on. There
      were Roger and Nicholas and Jolyon; they all had grandsons. And
      Swithin and Timothy had never married. He had done his best; but
      he would soon be gone now. And, as though he had uttered words of
      profound consolation, he was silent, eating brains with a fork
      and a piece of bread, and swallowing the bread.

      Soames excused himself directly after dinner. It was not really
      cold, but he put on his fur coat, which served to fortify him
      against the fits of nervous shivering to which he had been
      subject all day. Subconsciously, he knew that he looked better
      thus than in an ordinary black overcoat. Then, feeling the
      morocco case flat against his heart, he sallied forth. He was no
      smoker, but he lit a cigarette, and smoked it gingerly as he
      walked along. He moved slowly down the Row towards Knightsbridge,
      timing himself to get to Chelsea at nine-fifteen. What did she do
      with herself evening after evening in that little hole? How
      mysterious women were! One lived alongside and knew nothing of
      them. What could she have seen in that fellow Bosinney to send
      her mad? For there was madness after all in what she had
      done—crazy moonstruck madness, in which all sense of values had
      been lost, and her life and his life ruined! And for a moment he
      was filled with a sort of exaltation, as though he were a man
      read of in a story who, possessed by the Christian spirit, would
      restore to her all the prizes of existence, forgiving and
      forgetting, and becoming the godfather of her future. Under a
      tree opposite Knightsbridge Barracks, where the moonlight struck
      down clear and white, he took out once more the morocco case, and
      let the beams draw colour from those stones. Yes, they were of
      the first water! But, at the hard closing snap of the case,
      another cold shiver ran through his nerves; and he walked on
      faster, clenching his gloved hands in the pockets of his coat,
      almost hoping she would not be in. The thought of how mysterious
      she was again beset him. Dining alone there night after night—in
      an evening dress, too, as if she were making believe to be in
      society! Playing the piano—to herself! Not even a dog or cat, so
      far as he had seen. And that reminded him suddenly of the mare he
      kept for station work at Mapledurham. If ever he went to the
      stable, there she was quite alone, half asleep, and yet, on her
      home journeys going more freely than on her way out, as if
      longing to be back and lonely in her stable! “I would treat her
      well,” he thought incoherently. “I would be very careful.” And
      all that capacity for home life of which a mocking Fate seemed
      for ever to have deprived him swelled suddenly in Soames, so that
      he dreamed dreams opposite South Kensington Station. In the
      King’s Road a man came slithering out of a public house playing a
      concertina. Soames watched him for a moment dance crazily on the
      pavement to his own drawling jagged sounds, then crossed over to
      avoid contact with this piece of drunken foolery. A night in the
      lock-up! What asses people were! But the man had noticed his
      movement of avoidance, and streams of genial blasphemy followed
      him across the street. “I hope they’ll run him in,” thought
      Soames viciously. “To have ruffians like that about, with women
      out alone!” A woman’s figure in front had induced this thought.
      Her walk seemed oddly familiar, and when she turned the corner
      for which he was bound, his heart began to beat. He hastened on
      to the corner to make certain. Yes! It was Irene; he could not
      mistake her walk in that little drab street. She threaded two
      more turnings, and from the last corner he saw her enter her
      block of flats. To make sure of her now, he ran those few paces,
      hurried up the stairs, and caught her standing at her door. He
      heard the latchkey in the lock, and reached her side just as she
      turned round, startled, in the open doorway.

      “Don’t be alarmed,” he said, breathless. “I happened to see you.
      Let me come in a minute.”

      She had put her hand up to her breast, her face was colourless,
      her eyes widened by alarm. Then seeming to master herself, she
      inclined her head, and said: “Very well.”

      Soames closed the door. He, too, had need to recover, and when
      she had passed into the sitting-room, waited a full minute,
      taking deep breaths to still the beating of his heart. At this
      moment, so fraught with the future, to take out that morocco case
      seemed crude. Yet, not to take it out left him there before her
      with no preliminary excuse for coming. And in this dilemma he was
      seized with impatience at all this paraphernalia of excuse and
      justification. This was a scene—it could be nothing else, and he
      must face it. He heard her voice, uncomfortably, pathetically
      soft:

      “Why have you come again? Didn’t you understand that I would
      rather you did not?”

      He noticed her clothes—a dark brown velvet corduroy, a sable boa,
      a small round toque of the same. They suited her admirably. She
      had money to spare for dress, evidently! He said abruptly:

      “It’s your birthday. I brought you this,” and he held out to her
      the green morocco case.

      “Oh! No-no!”

      Soames pressed the clasp; the seven stones gleamed out on the
      pale grey velvet.

      “Why not?” he said. “Just as a sign that you don’t bear me
      ill-feeling any longer.”

      “I couldn’t.”

      Soames took it out of the case.

      “Let me just see how it looks.”

      She shrank back.

      He followed, thrusting his hand with the brooch in it against the
      front of her dress. She shrank again.

      Soames dropped his hand.

      “Irene,” he said, “let bygones be bygones. If _I_ can, surely you
      might. Let’s begin again, as if nothing had been. Won’t you?” His
      voice was wistful, and his eyes, resting on her face, had in them
      a sort of supplication.

      She, who was standing literally with her back against the wall,
      gave a little gulp, and that was all her answer. Soames went on:

      “Can you really want to live all your days half-dead in this
      little hole? Come back to me, and I’ll give you all you want. You
      shall live your own life; I swear it.”

      He saw her face quiver ironically.

      “Yes,” he repeated, “but I mean it this time. I’ll only ask one
      thing. I just want—I just want a son. Don’t look like that! I
      want one. It’s hard.” His voice had grown hurried, so that he
      hardly knew it for his own, and twice he jerked his head back as
      if struggling for breath. It was the sight of her eyes fixed on
      him, dark with a sort of fascinated fright, which pulled him
      together and changed that painful incoherence to anger.

      “Is it so very unnatural?” he said between his teeth, “Is it
      unnatural to want a child from one’s own wife? You wrecked our
      life and put this blight on everything. We go on only half alive,
      and without any future. Is it so very unflattering to you that in
      spite of everything I—I still want you for my wife? Speak, for
      Goodness’ sake! do speak.”

      Irene seemed to try, but did not succeed.

      “I don’t want to frighten you,” said Soames more gently. “Heaven
      knows. I only want you to see that I can’t go on like this. I
      want you back. I want you.”

      Irene raised one hand and covered the lower part of her face, but
      her eyes never moved from his, as though she trusted in them to
      keep him at bay. And all those years, barren and bitter,
      since—ah! when?—almost since he had first known her, surged up in
      one great wave of recollection in Soames; and a spasm that for
      his life he could not control constricted his face.

      “It’s not too late,” he said; “it’s not—if you’ll only believe
      it.”

      Irene uncovered her lips, and both her hands made a writhing
      gesture in front of her breast. Soames seized them.

      “Don’t!” she said under her breath. But he stood holding on to
      them, trying to stare into her eyes which did not waver. Then she
      said quietly:

      “I am alone here. You won’t behave again as you once behaved.”

      Dropping her hands as though they had been hot irons, he turned
      away. Was it possible that there could be such relentless
      unforgiveness! Could that one act of violent possession be still
      alive within her? Did it bar him thus utterly? And doggedly he
      said, without looking up:

      “I am not going till you’ve answered me. I am offering what few
      men would bring themselves to offer, I want a—a reasonable
      answer.”

      And almost with surprise he heard her say:

      “You can’t have a reasonable answer. Reason has nothing to do
      with it. You can only have the brutal truth: I would rather die.”

      Soames stared at her.

      “Oh!” he said. And there intervened in him a sort of paralysis of
      speech and movement, the kind of quivering which comes when a man
      has received a deadly insult, and does not yet know how he is
      going to take it, or rather what it is going to do with him.

      “Oh!” he said again, “as bad as that? Indeed! You would rather
      die. That’s pretty!”

      “I am sorry. You wanted me to answer. I can’t help the truth, can
      I?”

      At that queer spiritual appeal Soames turned for relief to
      actuality. He snapped the brooch back into its case and put it in
      his pocket.

      “The truth!” he said; “there’s no such thing with women. It’s
      nerves—nerves.”

      He heard the whisper:

      “Yes; nerves don’t lie. Haven’t you discovered that?” He was
      silent, obsessed by the thought: “I _will_ hate this woman. I
      _will_ hate her.” That was the trouble! If only he could! He shot
      a glance at her who stood unmoving against the wall with her head
      up and her hands clasped, for all the world as if she were going
      to be shot. And he said quickly:

      “I don’t believe a word of it. You have a lover. If you hadn’t,
      you wouldn’t be such a—such a little idiot.” He was conscious,
      before the expression in her eyes, that he had uttered something
      of a non-sequitur, and dropped back too abruptly into the verbal
      freedom of his connubial days. He turned away to the door. But he
      could not go out. Something within him—that most deep and secret
      Forsyte quality, the impossibility of letting go, the
      impossibility of seeing the fantastic and forlorn nature of his
      own tenacity—prevented him. He turned about again, and there
      stood, with his back against the door, as hers was against the
      wall opposite, quite unconscious of anything ridiculous in this
      separation by the whole width of the room.

      “Do you ever think of anybody but yourself?” he said.

      Irene’s lips quivered; then she answered slowly:

      “Do you ever think that I found out my mistake—my hopeless,
      terrible mistake—the very first week of our marriage; that I went
      on trying three years—you know I went on trying? Was it for
      myself?”

      Soames gritted his teeth. “God knows what it was. I’ve never
      understood you; I shall never understand you. You had everything
      you wanted; and you can have it again, and more. What’s the
      matter with me? I ask you a plain question: What is it?”
      Unconscious of the pathos in that enquiry, he went on
      passionately: “I’m not lame, I’m not loathsome, I’m not a boor,
      I’m not a fool. What is it? What’s the mystery about me?”

      Her answer was a long sigh.

      He clasped his hands with a gesture that for him was strangely
      full of expression. “When I came here to-night I was—I hoped—I
      meant everything that I could to do away with the past, and start
      fair again. And you meet me with ‘nerves,’ and silence, and
      sighs. There’s nothing tangible. It’s like—it’s like a spider’s
      web.”

      “Yes.”

      That whisper from across the room maddened Soames afresh.

      “Well, I don’t choose to be in a spider’s web. I’ll cut it.” He
      walked straight up to her. “Now!” What he had gone up to her to
      do he really did not know. But when he was close, the old
      familiar scent of her clothes suddenly affected him. He put his
      hands on her shoulders and bent forward to kiss her. He kissed
      not her lips, but a little hard line where the lips had been
      drawn in; then his face was pressed away by her hands; he heard
      her say: “Oh! No!” Shame, compunction, sense of futility flooded
      his whole being, he turned on his heel and went straight out.




      CHAPTER III VISIT TO IRENE


      Jolyon found June waiting on the platform at Paddington. She had
      received his telegram while at breakfast. Her abode—a studio and
      two bedrooms in a St. John’s Wood garden—had been selected by her
      for the complete independence which it guaranteed. Unwatched by
      Mrs. Grundy, unhindered by permanent domestics, she could receive
      lame ducks at any hour of day or night, and not seldom had a duck
      without studio of its own made use of June’s. She enjoyed her
      freedom, and possessed herself with a sort of virginal passion;
      the warmth which she would have lavished on Bosinney, and of
      which—given her Forsyte tenacity—he must surely have tired, she
      now expended in championship of the underdogs and budding
      “geniuses” of the artistic world. She lived, in fact, to turn
      ducks into the swans she believed they were. The very fervour of
      her protection warped her judgments. But she was loyal and
      liberal; her small eager hand was ever against the oppressions of
      academic and commercial opinion, and though her income was
      considerable, her bank balance was often a minus quantity.

      She had come to Paddington Station heated in her soul by a visit
      to Eric Cobbley. A miserable Gallery had refused to let that
      straight-haired genius have his one-man show after all. Its
      impudent manager, after visiting his studio, had expressed the
      opinion that it would only be a “one-horse show from the selling
      point of view.” This crowning example of commercial cowardice
      towards her favourite lame duck—and he so hard up, with a wife
      and two children, that he had caused her account to be
      overdrawn—was still making the blood glow in her small, resolute
      face, and her red-gold hair to shine more than ever. She gave her
      father a hug, and got into a cab with him, having as many fish to
      fry with him as he with her. It became at once a question which
      would fry them first.

      Jolyon had reached the words: “My dear, I want you to come with
      me,” when, glancing at her face, he perceived by her blue eyes
      moving from side to side—like the tail of a preoccupied cat—that
      she was not attending. “Dad, is it true that I absolutely can’t
      get at any of my money?”

      “Only the income, fortunately, my love.”

      “How perfectly beastly! Can’t it be done somehow? There must be a
      way. I know I could buy a small Gallery for ten thousand pounds.”

      “A small Gallery,” murmured Jolyon, “seems a modest desire. But
      your grandfather foresaw it.”

      “I think,” cried June vigorously, “that all this care about money
      is awful, when there’s so much genius in the world simply crushed
      out for want of a little. I shall never marry and have children;
      why shouldn’t I be able to do some good instead of having it all
      tied up in case of things which will never come off?”

      “Our name is Forsyte, my dear,” replied Jolyon in the ironical
      voice to which his impetuous daughter had never quite grown
      accustomed; “and Forsytes, you know, are people who so settle
      their property that their grandchildren, in case they should die
      before their parents, have to make wills leaving the property
      that will only come to themselves when their parents die. Do you
      follow that? Nor do I, but it’s a fact, anyway; we live by the
      principle that so long as there is a possibility of keeping
      wealth in the family it must not go out; if you die unmarried,
      your money goes to Jolly and Holly and their children if they
      marry. Isn’t it pleasant to know that whatever you do you can
      none of you be destitute?”

      “But can’t I borrow the money?”

      Jolyon shook his head. “You could rent a Gallery, no doubt, if
      you could manage it out of your income.”

      June uttered a contemptuous sound.

      “Yes; and have no income left to help anybody with.”

      “My dear child,” murmured Jolyon, “wouldn’t it come to the same
      thing?”

      “No,” said June shrewdly, “I could buy for ten thousand; that
      would only be four hundred a year. But I should have to pay a
      thousand a year rent, and that would only leave me five hundred.
      If I had the Gallery, Dad, think what I could do. I could make
      Eric Cobbley’s name in no time, and ever so many others.”

      “Names worth making make themselves in time.”

      “When they’re dead.”

      “Did you ever know anybody living, my dear, improved by having
      his name made?”

      “Yes, you,” said June, pressing his arm.

      Jolyon started. “I?” he thought. “Oh! Ah! Now she’s going to ask
      me to do something. We take it out, we Forsytes, each in our
      different ways.”

      June came closer to him in the cab.

      “Darling,” she said, “you buy the Gallery, and I’ll pay you four
      hundred a year for it. Then neither of us will be any the worse
      off. Besides, it’s a splendid investment.”

      Jolyon wriggled. “Don’t you think,” he said, “that for an artist
      to buy a Gallery is a bit dubious? Besides, ten thousand pounds
      is a lump, and I’m not a commercial character.”

      June looked at him with admiring appraisement.

      “Of course you’re not, but you’re awfully businesslike. And I’m
      sure we could make it pay. It’ll be a perfect way of scoring off
      those wretched dealers and people.” And again she squeezed her
      father’s arm.

      Jolyon’s face expressed quizzical despair.

      “Where is this desirable Gallery? Splendidly situated, I
      suppose?”

      “Just off Cork Street.”

      “Ah!” thought Jolyon, “I knew it was just off somewhere. Now for
      what I want out of _her!_”

      “Well, I’ll think of it, but not just now. You remember Irene? I
      want you to come with me and see her. Soames is after her again.
      She might be safer if we could give her asylum somewhere.”

      The word asylum, which he had used by chance, was of all most
      calculated to rouse June’s interest.

      “Irene! I haven’t seen her since! Of course! I’d love to help
      her.”

      It was Jolyon’s turn to squeeze her arm, in warm admiration for
      this spirited, generous-hearted little creature of his begetting.

      “Irene is proud,” he said, with a sidelong glance, in sudden
      doubt of June’s discretion; “she’s difficult to help. We must
      tread gently. This is the place. I wired her to expect us. Let’s
      send up our cards.”

      “I can’t bear Soames,” said June as she got out; “he sneers at
      everything that isn’t successful.”

      Irene was in what was called the “Ladies’ drawing-room” of the
      Piedmont Hotel.

      Nothing if not morally courageous, June walked straight up to her
      former friend, kissed her cheek, and the two settled down on a
      sofa never sat on since the hotel’s foundation. Jolyon could see
      that Irene was deeply affected by this simple forgiveness.

      “So Soames has been worrying you?” he said.

      “I had a visit from him last night; he wants me to go back to
      him.”

      “You’re not going, of course?” cried June.

      Irene smiled faintly and shook her head. “But his position is
      horrible,” she murmured.

      “It’s his own fault; he ought to have divorced you when he
      could.”

      Jolyon remembered how fervently in the old days June had hoped
      that no divorce would smirch her dead and faithless lover’s name.

      “Let us hear what Irene _is_ going to do,” he said.

      Irene’s lips quivered, but she spoke calmly.

      “I’d better give him fresh excuse to get rid of me.”

      “How horrible!” cried June.

      “What else can I do?”

      “Out of the question,” said Jolyon very quietly, “_sans amour_.”

      He thought she was going to cry; but, getting up quickly, she
      half turned her back on them, and stood regaining control of
      herself.

      June said suddenly:

      “Well, I shall go to Soames and tell him he must leave you alone.
      What does he want at his age?”

      “A child. It’s not unnatural”

      “A child!” cried June scornfully. “Of course! To leave his money
      to. If he wants one badly enough let him take somebody and have
      one; then you can divorce him, and he can marry her.”

      Jolyon perceived suddenly that he had made a mistake to bring
      June—her violent partizanship was fighting Soames’ battle.

      “It would be best for Irene to come quietly to us at Robin Hill,
      and see how things shape.”

      “Of course,” said June; “only....”

      Irene looked full at Jolyon—in all his many attempts afterwards
      to analyze that glance he never could succeed.

      “No! I should only bring trouble on you all. I will go abroad.”

      He knew from her voice that this was final. The irrelevant
      thought flashed through him: “Well, I could see her there.” But
      he said:

      “Don’t you think you would be more helpless abroad, in case he
      followed?”

      “I don’t know. I can but try.”

      June sprang up and paced the room. “It’s all horrible,” she said.
      “Why should people be tortured and kept miserable and helpless
      year after year by this disgusting sanctimonious law?” But
      someone had come into the room, and June came to a standstill.
      Jolyon went up to Irene:

      “Do you want money?”

      “No.”

      “And would you like me to let your flat?”

      “Yes, Jolyon, please.”

      “When shall you be going?”

      “To-morrow.”

      “You won’t go back there in the meantime, will you?” This he said
      with an anxiety strange to himself.

      “No; I’ve got all I want here.”

      “You’ll send me your address?”

      She put out her hand to him. “I feel you’re a rock.”

      “Built on sand,” answered Jolyon, pressing her hand hard; “but
      it’s a pleasure to do anything, at any time, remember that. And
      if you change your mind...! Come along, June; say good-bye.”

      June came from the window and flung her arms round Irene.

      “Don’t think of him,” she said under her breath; “enjoy yourself,
      and bless you!”

      With a memory of tears in Irene’s eyes, and of a smile on her
      lips, they went away extremely silent, passing the lady who had
      interrupted the interview and was turning over the papers on the
      table.

      Opposite the National Gallery June exclaimed:

      “Of all undignified beasts and horrible laws!”

      But Jolyon did not respond. He had something of his father’s
      balance, and could see things impartially even when his emotions
      were roused. Irene was right; Soames’ position was as bad or
      worse than her own. As for the law—it catered for a human nature
      of which it took a naturally low view. And, feeling that if he
      stayed in his daughter’s company he would in one way or another
      commit an indiscretion, he told her he must catch his train back
      to Oxford; and hailing a cab, left her to Turner’s water-colours,
      with the promise that he would think over that Gallery.

      But he thought over Irene instead. Pity, they said, was akin to
      love! If so he was certainly in danger of loving her, for he
      pitied her profoundly. To think of her drifting about Europe so
      handicapped and lonely! “I hope to goodness she’ll keep her
      head!” he thought; “she might easily grow desperate.” In fact,
      now that she had cut loose from her poor threads of occupation,
      he couldn’t imagine how she would go on—so beautiful a creature,
      hopeless, and fair game for anyone! In his exasperation was more
      than a little fear and jealousy. Women did strange things when
      they were driven into corners. “I wonder what Soames will do
      now!” he thought. “A rotten, idiotic state of things! And I
      suppose they would say it was her own fault.” Very preoccupied
      and sore at heart, he got into his train, mislaid his ticket, and
      on the platform at Oxford took his hat off to a lady whose face
      he seemed to remember without being able to put a name to her,
      not even when he saw her having tea at the Rainbow.




      CHAPTER IV WHERE FORSYTES FEAR TO TREAD


      Quivering from the defeat of his hopes, with the green morocco
      case still flat against his heart, Soames revolved thoughts
      bitter as death. A spider’s web! Walking fast, and noting nothing
      in the moonlight, he brooded over the scene he had been through,
      over the memory of her figure rigid in his grasp. And the more he
      brooded, the more certain he became that she had a lover—her
      words, “I would sooner die!” were ridiculous if she had not. Even
      if she had never loved him, she had made no fuss until Bosinney
      came on the scene. No; she was in love again, or she would not
      have made that melodramatic answer to his proposal, which in all
      the circumstances was reasonable! Very well! That simplified
      matters.

      “I’ll take steps to know where I am,” he thought; “I’ll go to
      Polteed’s the first thing tomorrow morning.”

      But even in forming that resolution he knew he would have trouble
      with himself. He had employed Polteed’s agency several times in
      the routine of his profession, even quite lately over Dartie’s
      case, but he had never thought it possible to employ them to
      watch his own wife.

      It was too insulting to himself!

      He slept over that project and his wounded pride—or rather, kept
      vigil. Only while shaving did he suddenly remember that she
      called herself by her maiden name of Heron. Polteed would not
      know, at first at all events, whose wife she was, would not look
      at him obsequiously and leer behind his back. She would just be
      the wife of one of his clients. And that would be true—for was he
      not his own solicitor?

      He was literally afraid not to put his design into execution at
      the first possible moment, lest, after all, he might fail
      himself. And making Warmson bring him an early cup of coffee; he
      stole out of the house before the hour of breakfast. He walked
      rapidly to one of those small West End streets where Polteed’s
      and other firms ministered to the virtues of the wealthier
      classes. Hitherto he had always had Polteed to see him in the
      Poultry; but he well knew their address, and reached it at the
      opening hour. In the outer office, a room furnished so cosily
      that it might have been a money-lender’s, he was attended by a
      lady who might have been a schoolmistress.

      “I wish to see Mr. Claud Polteed. He knows me—never mind my
      name.”

      To keep everybody from knowing that he, Soames Forsyte, was
      reduced to having his wife spied on, was the overpowering
      consideration.

      Mr. Claud Polteed—so different from Mr. Lewis Polteed—was one of
      those men with dark hair, slightly curved noses, and quick brown
      eyes, who might be taken for Jews but are really Phœnicians; he
      received Soames in a room hushed by thickness of carpet and
      curtains. It was, in fact, confidentially furnished, without
      trace of document anywhere to be seen.

      Greeting Soames deferentially, he turned the key in the only door
      with a certain ostentation.

      “If a client sends for me,” he was in the habit of saying, “he
      takes what precaution he likes. If he comes here, we convince him
      that we have no leakages. I may safely say we lead in security,
      if in nothing else....Now, sir, what can I do for you?”

      Soames’ gorge had risen so that he could hardly speak. It was
      absolutely necessary to hide from this man that he had any but
      professional interest in the matter; and, mechanically, his face
      assumed its sideway smile.

      “I’ve come to you early like this because there’s not an hour to
      lose”—if he lost an hour he might fail himself yet! “Have you a
      really trustworthy woman free?”

      Mr. Polteed unlocked a drawer, produced a memorandum, ran his
      eyes over it, and locked the drawer up again.

      “Yes,” he said; “the very woman.”

      Soames had seated himself and crossed his legs—nothing but a
      faint flush, which might have been his normal complexion,
      betrayed him.

      “Send her off at once, then, to watch a Mrs. Irene Heron of Flat
      C, Truro Mansions, Chelsea, till further notice.”

      “Precisely,” said Mr. Polteed; “divorce, I presume?” and he blew
      into a speaking-tube. “Mrs. Blanch in? I shall want to speak to
      her in ten minutes.”

      “Deal with any reports yourself,” resumed Soames, “and send them
      to me personally, marked confidential, sealed and registered. My
      client exacts the utmost secrecy.”

      Mr. Polteed smiled, as though saying, “You are teaching your
      grandmother, my dear sir;” and his eyes slid over Soames’ face
      for one unprofessional instant.

      “Make his mind perfectly easy,” he said. “Do you smoke?”

      “No,” said Soames. “Understand me: Nothing may come of this. If a
      name gets out, or the watching is suspected, it may have very
      serious consequences.”

      Mr. Polteed nodded. “I can put it into the cipher category. Under
      that system a name is never mentioned; we work by numbers.”

      He unlocked another drawer and took out two slips of paper, wrote
      on them, and handed one to Soames.

      “Keep that, sir; it’s your key. I retain this duplicate. The case
      we’ll call 7x. The party watched will be 17; the watcher 19; the
      Mansions 25; yourself—I should say, your firm—31; my firm 32,
      myself 2. In case you should have to mention your client in
      writing I have called him 43; any person we suspect will be 47; a
      second person 51. Any special hint or instruction while we’re
      about it?”

      “No,” said Soames; “that is—every consideration compatible.”

      Again Mr. Polteed nodded. “Expense?”

      Soames shrugged. “In reason,” he answered curtly, and got up.
      “Keep it entirely in your own hands.”

      “Entirely,” said Mr. Polteed, appearing suddenly between him and
      the door. “I shall be seeing you in that other case before long.
      Good morning, sir.” His eyes slid unprofessionally over Soames
      once more, and he unlocked the door.

      “Good morning,” said Soames, looking neither to right nor left.

      Out in the street he swore deeply, quietly, to himself. A
      spider’s web, and to cut it he must use this spidery, secret,
      unclean method, so utterly repugnant to one who regarded his
      private life as his most sacred piece of property. But the die
      was cast, he could not go back. And he went on into the Poultry,
      and locked away the green morocco case and the key to that cipher
      destined to make crystal-clear his domestic bankruptcy.

      Odd that one whose life was spent in bringing to the public eye
      all the private coils of property, the domestic disagreements of
      others, should dread so utterly the public eye turned on his own;
      and yet not odd, for who should know so well as he the whole
      unfeeling process of legal regulation.

      He worked hard all day. Winifred was due at four o’clock; he was
      to take her down to a conference in the Temple with Dreamer Q.C.,
      and waiting for her he re-read the letter he had caused her to
      write the day of Dartie’s departure, requiring him to return.

      “DEAR MONTAGUE,
          “I have received your letter with the news that you have left
          me for ever and are on your way to Buenos Aires. It has
          naturally been a great shock. I am taking this earliest
          opportunity of writing to tell you that I am prepared to let
          bygones be bygones if you will return to me at once. I beg
          you to do so. I am very much upset, and will not say any more
          now. I am sending this letter registered to the address you
          left at your Club. Please cable to me.

      “Your still affectionate wife,
      “WINIFRED DARTIE.”

      Ugh! What bitter humbug! He remembered leaning over Winifred
      while she copied what he had pencilled, and how she had said,
      laying down her pen, “Suppose he comes, Soames!” in such a
      strange tone of voice, as if she did not know her own mind. “He
      won’t come,” he had answered, “till he’s spent his money. That’s
      why we must act at once.” Annexed to the copy of that letter was
      the original of Dartie’s drunken scrawl from the Iseeum Club.
      Soames could have wished it had not been so manifestly penned in
      liquor. Just the sort of thing the Court would pitch on. He
      seemed to hear the Judge’s voice say: “You took this seriously!
      Seriously enough to write him as you did? Do you think he meant
      it?” Never mind! The fact was clear that Dartie had sailed and
      had not returned. Annexed also was his cabled answer: “Impossible
      return. Dartie.” Soames shook his head. If the whole thing were
      not disposed of within the next few months the fellow would turn
      up again like a bad penny. It saved a thousand a year at least to
      get rid of him, besides all the worry to Winifred and his father.
      “I must stiffen Dreamer’s back,” he thought; “we must push it
      on.”

      Winifred, who had adopted a kind of half-mourning which became
      her fair hair and tall figure very well, arrived in James’
      barouche drawn by James’ pair. Soames had not seen it in the City
      since his father retired from business five years ago, and its
      incongruity gave him a shock. “Times are changing,” he thought;
      “one doesn’t know what’ll go next!” Top hats even were scarcer.
      He enquired after Val. Val, said Winifred, wrote that he was
      going to play polo next term. She thought he was in a very good
      set. She added with fashionably disguised anxiety: “Will there be
      much publicity about my affair, Soames? _Must_ it be in the
      papers? It’s so bad for him, and the girls.”

      With his own calamity all raw within him, Soames answered:

      “The papers are a pushing lot; it’s very difficult to keep things
      out. They pretend to be guarding the public’s morals, and they
      corrupt them with their beastly reports. But we haven’t got to
      that yet. We’re only seeing Dreamer to-day on the restitution
      question. Of course he understands that it’s to lead to a
      divorce; but you must seem genuinely anxious to get Dartie
      back—you might practise that attitude to-day.”

      Winifred sighed.

      “Oh! What a clown Monty’s been!” she said.

      Soames gave her a sharp look. It was clear to him that she could
      not take her Dartie seriously, and would go back on the whole
      thing if given half a chance. His own instinct had been firm in
      this matter from the first. To save a little scandal now would
      only bring on his sister and her children real disgrace and
      perhaps ruin later on if Dartie were allowed to hang on to them,
      going down-hill and spending the money James would leave his
      daughter. Though it _was_ all tied up, that fellow would milk the
      settlements somehow, and make his family pay through the nose to
      keep him out of bankruptcy or even perhaps gaol! They left the
      shining carriage, with the shining horses and the shining-hatted
      servants on the Embankment, and walked up to Dreamer Q.C.’s
      Chambers in Crown Office Row.

      “Mr. Bellby is here, sir,” said the clerk; “Mr. Dreamer will be
      ten minutes.”

      Mr. Bellby, the junior—not as junior as he might have been, for
      Soames only employed barristers of established reputation; it
      was, indeed, something of a mystery to him how barristers ever
      managed to establish that which made him employ them—Mr. Bellby
      was seated, taking a final glance through his papers. He had come
      from Court, and was in wig and gown, which suited a nose jutting
      out like the handle of a tiny pump, his small shrewd blue eyes,
      and rather protruding lower lip—no better man to supplement and
      stiffen Dreamer.

      The introduction to Winifred accomplished, they leaped the
      weather and spoke of the war. Soames interrupted suddenly:

      “If he doesn’t comply we can’t bring proceedings for six months.
      I want to get on with the matter, Bellby.”

      Mr. Bellby, who had the ghost of an Irish brogue, smiled at
      Winifred and murmured: “The Law’s delays, Mrs. Dartie.”

      “Six months!” repeated Soames; “it’ll drive it up to June! We
      shan’t get the suit on till after the long vacation. We must put
      the screw on, Bellby”—he would have all his work cut out to keep
      Winifred up to the scratch.

      “Mr. Dreamer will see you now, sir.”

      They filed in, Mr. Bellby going first, and Soames escorting
      Winifred after an interval of one minute by his watch.

      Dreamer Q.C., in a gown but divested of wig, was standing before
      the fire, as if this conference were in the nature of a treat; he
      had the leathery, rather oily complexion which goes with great
      learning, a considerable nose with glasses perched on it, and
      little greyish whiskers; he luxuriated in the perpetual cocking
      of one eye, and the concealment of his lower with his upper lip,
      which gave a smothered turn to his speech. He had a way, too, of
      coming suddenly round the corner on the person he was talking to;
      this, with a disconcerting tone of voice, and a habit of growling
      before he began to speak—had secured a reputation second in
      Probate and Divorce to very few. Having listened, eye cocked, to
      Mr. Bellby’s breezy recapitulation of the facts, he growled, and
      said:

      “I know all that;” and coming round the corner at Winifred,
      smothered the words:

      “We want to get him back, don’t we, Mrs. Dartie?”

      Soames interposed sharply:

      “My sister’s position, of course, is intolerable.”

      Dreamer growled. “Exactly. Now, can we rely on the cabled
      refusal, or must we wait till after Christmas to give him a
      chance to have written—that’s the point, isn’t it?”

      “The sooner....” Soames began.

      “What do you say, Bellby?” said Dreamer, coming round his corner.

      Mr. Bellby seemed to sniff the air like a hound.

      “We won’t be on till the middle of December. We’ve no need to
      give um more rope than that.”

      “No,” said Soames, “why should my sister be incommoded by his
      choosing to go...”

      “To Jericho!” said Dreamer, again coming round his corner; “quite
      so. People oughtn’t to go to Jericho, ought they, Mrs. Dartie?”
      And he raised his gown into a sort of fantail. “I agree. We can
      go forward. Is there anything more?”

      “Nothing at present,” said Soames meaningly; “I wanted you to see
      my sister.”

      Dreamer growled softly: “Delighted. Good evening!” And let fall
      the protection of his gown.

      They filed out. Winifred went down the stairs. Soames lingered.
      In spite of himself he was impressed by Dreamer.

      “The evidence is all right, I think,” he said to Bellby. “Between
      ourselves, if we don’t get the thing through quick, we never may.
      D’you think _he_ understands that?”

      “I’ll make um,” said Bellby. “Good man though—good man.”

      Soames nodded and hastened after his sister. He found her in a
      draught, biting her lips behind her veil, and at once said:

      “The evidence of the stewardess will be very complete.”

