He took it from her without saying a word and left the 
room, not even looking back at Ron and Hermione, 
and slamming the classroom door shut behind him. 
He walked very fast along the corridor, the note to 
McGonagall clutched tight in his hand, and turning a 
corner walked slap into Peeves the Poltergeist, a wide- 
faced little man floating on his back in midair, 
juggling several inkwells. 

“Why, it’s Potty Wee Potter!” cackled Peeves, allowing 
two of the inkwells to fall to the ground where they 
smashed and spattered the walls with ink; Harry 
jumped backward out of the way with a snarl. 

“Get out of it, Peeves.” 

“Oooh, Crackpot’s feeling cranky,” said Peeves, 
pursuing Harry along the corridor, leering as he 
zoomed along above him. “What is it this time, my 
fine Potty friend? Hearing voices? Seeing visions? 
Speaking in” — Peeves blew a gigantic raspberry — 
“tongues?” 

“I said, leave me ALONE!” Harry shouted, running 
down the nearest flight of stairs, but Peeves merely 
slid down the banister on his back beside him. 



Page | 314Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, most think he’s barking, the Potty wee lad, 

But some are more kindly and think he’s just sad, 

But Peevesy knows better and says that he’s mad — ” 
“SHUT UP!” 

A door to his left flew open and Professor McGonagall 
emerged from her office looking grim and slightly 
harassed. 

“What on earth are you shouting about, Potter?” she 
snapped, as Peeves cackled gleefully and zoomed out 
of sight. “Why aren’t you in class?” 

“I’ve been sent to see you,” said Harry stiffly. 

“Sent? What do you mean, sent?” 

He held out the note from Professor Umbridge. 
Professor McGonagall took it from him, frowning, slit 
it open with a tap of her wand, stretched it out, and 
began to read. Her eyes zoomed from side to side 
behind their square spectacles as she read what 
Umbridge had written, and with each line they 
became narrower. 

“Come in here, Potter.” 

He followed her inside her study. The door closed 
automatically behind him. 

“Well?” said Professor McGonagall, rounding on him. 
“Is this true?” 

“Is what true?” Harry asked, rather more aggressively 
than he had intended. “Professor?” he added in an 
attempt to sound more polite. 

Page | 315Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Is it true that you shouted at Professor Umbridge?” 
“Yes,” said Harry. 

“You called her a liar?” 

“Yes.” 

“You told her He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back?” 
“Yes.” 

Professor McGonagall sat down behind her desk, 
frowning at Harry. Then she said, “Have a biscuit, 
Potter.” 

“Have — what?” 

“Have a biscuit,” she repeated impatiently, indicating 
a tartan tin of cookies lying on top of one of the piles 
of papers on her desk. “And sit down.” 

There had been a previous occasion when Harry, 
expecting to be caned by Professor McGonagall, had 
instead been appointed by her to the Gryffindor 
Quidditch team. He sank into a chair opposite her 
and helped himself to a Ginger Newt, feeling just as 
confused and wrong-footed as he had done on that 
occasion. 

Professor McGonagall set down Professor Umbridge’s 
note and looked very seriously at Harry. 

“Potter, you need to be careful.” 

Harry swallowed his mouthful of Ginger Newt and 
stared at her. Her tone of voice was not at all what he 
was used to; it was not brisk, crisp, and stern; it was 



Page | 316Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




low and anxious and somehow much more human 
than usual. 

“Misbehavior in Dolores Umbridge’s class could cost 
you much more than House points and a detention.” 

“What do you — ?” 

“Potter, use your common sense,” snapped Professor 
McGonagall, with an abrupt return to her usual 
manner. “You know where she comes from, you must 
know to whom she is reporting.” 

The bell rang for the end of the lesson. Overhead and 
all around came the elephantine sounds of hundreds 
of students on the move. 

“It says here she’s given you detention every evening 
this week, starting tomorrow,” Professor McGonagall 
said, looking down at Umbridge’s note again. 

“Every evening this week!” Harry repeated, horrified. 
“But, Professor, couldn’t you — ?” 

“No, I couldn’t,” said Professor McGonagall flatly. 

“But — ” 

“She is your teacher and has every right to give you 
detention. You will go to her room at five o’clock 
tomorrow for the first one. Just remember: Tread 
carefully around Dolores Umbridge.” 

“But I was telling the truth!” said Harry, outraged. 
“Voldemort’s back, you know he is, Professor 
Dumbledore knows he is — ” 

“For heaven’s sake, Potter!” said Professor 
McGonagall, straightening her glasses angrily (she 

Page | 317Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had winced horribly when he had used Voldemort’s 
name). “Do you really think this is about truth or 
lies? It’s about keeping your head down and your 
temper under control!” 

She stood up, nostrils wide and mouth very thin, and 
he stood too. 

“Have another biscuit,” she said irritably, thrusting 
the tin at him. 

“No, thanks,” said Harry coldly. 

“Don’t be ridiculous,” she snapped. 

He took one. 

“Thanks,” he said grudgingly. 

“Didn’t you listen to Dolores Umbridge’s speech at the 
start-of-term feast, Potter?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah ... she said ... progress will 
be prohibited or ... well, it meant that ... that the 
Ministry of Magic is trying to interfere at Hogwarts.” 

Professor McGonagall eyed him for a moment, then 
sniffed, walked around her desk, and held open the 
door for him. 

“Well, I’m glad you listen to Hermione Granger at any 
rate,” she said, pointing him out of her office. 



Page | 318Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






DETENTION WITH DOLORES 

Dinner in the Great Hall that night was not a pleasant 
experience for Harry. The news about his shouting 
match with Umbridge seemed to have traveled 
exceptionally fast even by Hogwarts standards. He 
heard whispers all around him as he sat eating 
between Ron and Hermione. The funny thing was that 
none of the whisperers seemed to mind him 
overhearing what they were saying about him — on 
the contrary, it was as though they were hoping he 
would get angry and start shouting again, so that 
they could hear his story firsthand. 

“He says he saw Cedric Diggory murdered...” 

“He reckons he dueled with You-Know-Who...” 

“Come off it...” 

“Who does he think he’s kidding?” 

“Pur - lease ...” 



Page | 319Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“What I don’t get,” said Harry in a shaking voice, 
laying down his knife and fork (his hands were 
trembling too much to hold them steady), “is why they 
all believed the story two months ago when 
Dumbledore told them...” 

“The thing is, Harry, I’m not sure they did,” said 
Hermione grimly. “Oh, let’s get out of here.” 

She slammed down her own knife and fork; Ron 
looked sadly at his half-finished apple pie but 
followed suit. People stared at them all the way out of 
the Hall. 

“What d’you mean, you’re not sure they believed 
Dumbledore?” Harry asked Hermione when they 
reached the first-floor landing. 

“Look, you don’t understand what it was like after it 
happened,” said Hermione quietly. “You arrived back 
in the middle of the lawn clutching Cedric’s dead 
body... None of us saw what happened in the maze... 
We just had Dumbledore’s word for it that You-Know- 
Who had come back and killed Cedric and fought 
you.” 

“Which is the truth!” said Harry loudly. 

“I know it is, Harry, so will you please stop biting my 
head off?” said Hermione wearily. “It’s just that before 
the truth could sink in, everyone went home for the 
summer, where they spent two months reading about 
how you’re a nutcase and Dumbledore’s going senile!” 

Rain pounded on the windowpanes as they strode 
along the empty corridors back to Gryffindor Tower. 
Harry felt as though his first day had lasted a week, 
but he still had a mountain of homework to do before 
bed. A dull pounding pain was developing over his 
Page | 320Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




right eye. He glanced out of a rain-washed window at 
the dark grounds as they turned into the Fat Lady’s 
corridor. There was still no light in Hagrid’s cabin. 

“Mimbulus mimbletonia,” said Hermione, before the 
Fat Lady could ask. The portrait swung open to reveal 
the hole behind and the three of them scrambled 
back through it. 

The common room was almost empty; nearly everyone 
was still down at dinner. Crookshanks uncoiled 
himself from an armchair and trotted to meet them, 
purring loudly, and when Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
took their three favorite chairs at the fireside he leapt 
lightly into Hermione ’s lap and curled up there like a 
furry ginger cushion. Harry gazed into the flames, 
feeling drained and exhausted. 

“How can Dumbledore have let this happen?” 
Hermione cried suddenly, making Harry and Ron 
jump; Crookshanks leapt off her, looking affronted. 
She pounded the arms of her chair in fury, so that 
bits of stuffing leaked out of the holes. “How can he 
let that terrible woman teach us? And in our O.W.L. 
year too!” 

“Well, we’ve never had great Defense Against the Dark 
Arts teachers, have we?” said Harry. “You know what 
it’s like, Hagrid told us, nobody wants the job, they 
say it’s jinxed.” 

“Yes, but to employ someone who’s actually refusing 
to let us do magic! What’s Dumbledore playing at?” 

“And she’s trying to get people to spy for her,” said 
Ron darkly. “Remember when she said she wanted us 
to come and tell her if we hear anyone saying You- 
Know- Who’s back?” 



Page | 321Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Of course she’s here to spy on us all, that’s obvious, 
why else would Fudge have wanted her to come?” 
snapped Hermione. 

“Don’t start arguing again,” said Harry wearily, as 
Ron opened his mouth to retaliate. “Can’t we just ... 
Let’s just do that homework, get it out of the way...” 

They collected their schoolbags from a corner and 
returned to the chairs by the fire. People were coming 
back from dinner now. Harry kept his face averted 
from the portrait hole, but could still sense the stares 
he was attracting. 

“Shall we do Snape’s stuff first?” said Ron, dipping 
his quill into his ink. “ ‘The properties ...of moonstone 
... and its uses ...in potion-making ...’ ” he muttered, 
writing the words across the top of his parchment as 
he spoke them. “There.” He underlined the title, then 
looked up expectantly at Hermione. 

“So what are the properties of moonstone and its uses 
in potion-making?” 

But Hermione was not listening; she was squinting 
over into the far corner of the room, where Fred, 
George, and Lee Jordan were now sitting at the center 
of a knot of innocent-looking first years, all of whom 
were chewing something that seemed to have come 
out of a large paper bag that Fred was holding. 

“No, I’m sorry, they’ve gone too far,” she said, 
standing up and looking positively furious. “Come on, 
Ron.” 

“I — what?” said Ron, plainly playing for time. “No — 
come on, Hermione — we can’t tell them off for giving 
out sweets...” 



Page | 322Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You know perfectly well that those are bits of 
Nosebleed Nougat or — or Puking Pastilles or — ” 

“Fainting Fancies?” Harry suggested quietly. 

One by one, as though hit over the heads with 
invisible mallets, the first years were slumping 
unconscious in their seats; some slid right onto the 
floor, others merely hung over the arms of their 
chairs, their tongues lolling out. Most of the people 
watching were laughing; Hermione, however, squared 
her shoulders and marched directly over to where 
Fred and George now stood with clipboards, closely 
observing the unconscious first years. Ron rose 
halfway out of his chair, hovered uncertainly for a 
moment or two, then muttered to Harry, “She’s got it 
under control,” before sinking as low in his chair as 
his lanky frame permitted. 

“That’s enough!” Hermione said forcefully to Fred and 
George, both of whom looked up in mild surprise. 

“Yeah, you’re right,” said George, nodding, “this 
dosage looks strong enough, doesn’t it?” 

“I told you this morning, you can’t test your rubbish 
on students!” 

“We’re paying them!” said Fred indignantly. 

“I don’t care, it could be dangerous!” 

“Rubbish,” said Fred. 

“Calm down, Hermione, they’re fine!” said Lee 
reassuringly as he walked from first year to first year, 
inserting purple sweets into their open mouths. 

“Yeah, look, they’re coming round now,” said George. 

Page | 323Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




A few of the first years were indeed stirring. Several 
looked so shocked to find themselves lying on the 
floor, or dangling off their chairs, that Harry was sure 
Fred and George had not warned them what the 
sweets were going to do. 

“Feel all right?” said George kindly to a small dark- 
haired girl lying at his feet. 

“I-I think so,” she said shakily. 

“Excellent,” said Fred happily, but the next second 
Hermione had snatched both his clipboard and the 
paper bag of Fainting Fancies from his hands. 

“It is NOT excellent!” 

“ ’Course it is, they’re alive, aren’t they?” said Fred 
angrily. 

“You can’t do this, what if you made one of them 
really ill?” 

“We’re not going to make them ill, we’ve already tested 
them all on ourselves, this is just to see if everyone 
reacts the same — ” 

“If you don’t stop doing it, I’m going to — ” 

“Put us in detention?” said Fred in an I’d-like-to-see- 
you-try-it voice. 

“Make us write lines?” said George, smirking. 

Onlookers all over the room were laughing. Hermione 
drew herself up to her full height; her eyes were 
narrowed and her bushy hair seemed to crackle with 
electricity. 



Page | 324Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” she said, her voice quivering with anger, “but I 
will write to your mother.” 



“You wouldn’t,” said George, horrified, taking a step 
back from her. 

“Oh, yes, I would,” said Hermione grimly. “I can’t stop 
you eating the stupid things yourselves, but you’re 
not giving them to first years.” 

Fred and George looked thunderstruck. It was clear 
that as far as they were concerned, Hermione ’s threat 
was way below the belt. With a last threatening look 
at them, she thrust Fred’s clipboard and the bag of 
Fancies back into his arms and stalked back to her 
chair by the fire. 

Ron was now so low in his seat that his nose was 
roughly level with his knees. 

“Thank you for your support, Ron,” Hermione said 
acidly. 

“You handled it fine by yourself,” Ron mumbled. 

Hermione stared down at her blank piece of 
parchment for a few seconds, then said edgily, “Oh, 
it’s no good, I can’t concentrate now. I’m going to 
bed.” 

She wrenched her bag open; Harry thought she was 
about to put her books away, but instead she pulled 
out two misshapen woolly objects, placed them 
carefully on a table by the fireplace, covered them 
with a few screwed-up bits of parchment and a 
broken quill, and stood back to admire the effect. 

“What in the name of Merlin are you doing?” said 
Ron, watching her as though fearful for her sanity. 

Page | 325Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re hats for house-elves,” she said briskly, now 
stuffing her books back into her bag. “I did them over 
the summer. I’m a really slow knitter without magic, 
but now I’m back at school I should be able to make 
lots more.” 

“You’re leaving out hats for the house-elves?” said 
Ron slowly. “And you’re covering them up with 
rubbish first?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione defiantly, swinging her bag onto 
her back. 

“That’s not on,” said Ron angrily. “You’re trying to 
trick them into picking up the hats. You’re setting 
them free when they might not want to be free.” 

“Of course they want to be free!” said Hermione at 
once, though her face was turning pink. “Don’t you 
dare touch those hats, Ron!” 

She left. Ron waited until she had disappeared 
through the door to the girls’ dormitories, then 
cleared the rubbish off the woolly hats. 

“They should at least see what they’re picking up,” he 
said firmly. “Anyway ...” He rolled up the parchment 
on which he had written the title of Snape’s essay. 
“There’s no point trying to finish this now, I can’t do it 
without Hermione, I haven’t got a clue what you’re 
supposed to do with moonstones, have you?” 

Harry shook his head, noticing as he did so that the 
ache in his right temple was getting worse. He 
thought of the long essay on giant wars and the pain 
stabbed at him sharply. Knowing perfectly well that 
he would regret not finishing his homework tonight 
when the morning came, he piled his books back into 
his bag. 

Page | 326Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm going to bed too.” 

He passed Seamus on the way to the door leading to 
the dormitories, but did not look at him. Harry had a 
fleeting impression that Seamus had opened his 
mouth to speak, but sped up, and reached the 
soothing peace of the stone spiral staircase without 
having to endure any more provocation. 

The following day dawned just as leaden and rainy as 
the previous one. Hagrid was still absent from the 
staff table at breakfast. 

“But on the plus side, no Snape today,” said Ron 
bracingly. 

Hermione yawned widely and poured herself some 
coffee. She looked mildly pleased about something, 
and when Ron asked her what she had to be so happy 
about, she simply said, “The hats have gone. Seems 
the house-elves do want freedom after all.” 

“I wouldn’t bet on it,” Ron told her cuttingly. “They 
might not count as clothes. They didn’t look anything 
like hats to me, more like woolly bladders.” 

Hermione did not speak to him all morning. 

Double Charms was succeeded by double 
Transfiguration. Professor Flitwick and Professor 
McGonagall both spent the first fifteen minutes of 
their lessons lecturing the class on the importance of 
O.W.L.s. 

“What you must remember,” said little Professor 
Flitwick squeakily, perched as ever on a pile of books 
so that he could see over the top of his desk, “is that 
these examinations may influence your futures for 
many years to come! If you have not already given 
Page | 327Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




serious thought to your careers, now is the time to do 
so. And in the meantime, I’m afraid, we shall be 
working harder than ever to ensure that you all do 
yourselves justice!” 

They then spent more than an hour reviewing 
Summoning Charms, which according to Professor 
Flitwick were bound to come up in their O.W.L., and 
he rounded off the lesson by setting them their largest 
amount of Charms homework ever. 

It was the same, if not worse, in Transfiguration. 

“You cannot pass an O.W.L.,” said Professor 
McGonagall grimly, “without serious application, 
practice, and study. I see no reason why everybody in 
this class should not achieve an O.W.L. in 
Transfiguration as long as they put in the work.” 
Neville made a sad little disbelieving noise. “Yes, you 
too, Longbottom,” said Professor McGonagall. “There’s 
nothing wrong with your work except lack of 
confidence. So ... today we are starting Vanishing 
Spells. These are easier than Conjuring Spells, which 
you would not usually attempt until N.E.W.T. level, 
but they are still among the most difficult magic you 
will be tested on in your O.W.L.” 

She was quite right; Harry found the Vanishing Spells 
horribly difficult. By the end of a double period, 
neither he nor Ron had managed to vanish the snails 
on which they were practicing, though Ron said 
hopefully that he thought his looked a bit paler. 
Hermione, on the other hand, successfully vanished 
her snail on the third attempt, earning her a ten-point 
bonus for Gryffindor from Professor McGonagall. She 
was the only person not given homework; everybody 
else was told to practice the spell overnight, ready for 
a fresh attempt on their snails the following 
afternoon. 

Page | 328Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Now panicking slightly about the amount of 
homework they had to do, Harry and Ron spent their 
lunch hour in the library looking up the uses of 
moonstones in potion-making. Still angry about Ron’s 
slur on her woolly hats, Hermione did not join them. 
By the time they reached Care of Magical Creatures in 
the afternoon, Harry’s head was aching again. 

The day had become cool and breezy, and, as they 
walked down the sloping lawn toward Hagrid’s cabin 
on the edge of the Forbidden Forest, they felt the 
occasional drop of rain on their faces. Professor 
Grubbly-Plank stood waiting for the class some ten 
yards from Hagrid’s front door, a long trestle table in 
front of her laden with many twigs. As Harry and Ron 
reached her, a loud shout of laughter sounded behind 
them; turning, they saw Draco Malfoy striding toward 
them, surrounded by his usual gang of Slytherin 
cronies. He had clearly just said something highly 
amusing, because Crabbe, Goyle, Pansy Parkinson, 
and the rest continued to snigger heartily as they 
gathered around the trestle table. Judging by the fact 
that all of them kept looking over at Harry, he was 
able to guess the subject of the joke without too much 
difficulty. 

“Everyone here?” barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, 
once all the Slytherins and Gryffindors had arrived. 
“Let’s crack on then — who can tell me what these 
things are called?” 

She indicated the heap of twigs in front of her. 
Hermione ’s hand shot into the air. Behind her back, 
Malfoy did a buck-toothed imitation of her jumping 
up and down in eagerness to answer a question. 

Pansy Parkinson gave a shriek of laughter that turned 
almost at once into a scream, as the twigs on the 
table leapt into the air and revealed themselves to be 
what looked like tiny pixieish creatures made of wood, 
Page | 329Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




each with knobbly brown arms and legs, two twiglike 
fingers at the end of each hand, and a funny, flat, 
barklike face in which a pair of beetle-brown eyes 
glittered. 

“Oooooh!” said Parvati and Lavender, thoroughly 
irritating Harry: Anyone would have thought that 
Hagrid never showed them impressive creatures; 
admittedly the flobberworms had been a bit dull, but 
the salamanders and hippogriffs had been interesting 
enough, and the Blast-Ended Skrewts perhaps too 
much so. 

“Kindly keep your voices down, girls!” said Professor 
Grubbly-Plank sharply, scattering a handful of what 
looked like brown rice among the stick-creatures, who 
immediately fell upon the food. “So — anyone know 
the names of these creatures? Miss Granger?” 

“Bowtruckles,” said Hermione. “They’re tree- 
guardians, usually live in wand-trees.” 

“Five points for Gryffindor,” said Professor Grubbly- 
Plank. “Yes, these are bowtruckles and, as Miss 
Granger rightly says, they generally live in trees 
whose wood is of wand quality. Anybody know what 
they eat?” 

“Wood lice,” said Hermione promptly, which explained 
why what Harry had taken for grains of brown rice 
were moving. “But fairy eggs if they can get them.” 

“Good girl, take another five points. So whenever you 
need leaves or wood from a tree in which a 
bowtruckle lodges, it is wise to have a gift of wood lice 
ready to distract or placate it. They may not look 
dangerous, but if angered they will gouge out human 
eyes with their fingers, which, as you can see, are 
very sharp and not at all desirable near the eyeballs. 
Page | 330Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




So if you’d like to gather closer, take a few wood lice 
and a bowtruckle — I have enough here for one 
between three — you can study them more closely. I 
want a sketch from each of you with all body parts 
labeled by the end of the lesson.” 

The class surged forward around the trestle table. 
Harry deliberately circled around the back so that he 
ended up right next to Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

“Where’s Hagrid?” he asked her, while everyone else 
was choosing bowtruckles. 

“Never you mind,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank 
repressively, which had been her attitude last time 
Hagrid had failed to turn up for a class too. Smirking 
all over his pointed face, Draco Malfoy leaned across 
Harry and seized the largest bowtruckle. 

“Maybe,” said Malfoy in an undertone, so that only 
Harry could hear him, “the stupid great oaf’s got 
himself badly injured.” 

“Maybe you will if you don’t shut up,” said Harry out 
of the side of his mouth. 

“Maybe he’s been messing with stuff that’s too big for 
him, if you get my drift.” 

Malfoy walked away, smirking over his shoulder at 
Harry, who suddenly felt sick. Did Malfoy know 
something? His father was a Death Eater, after all; 
what if he had information about Hagrid ’s fate that 
had not yet reached the Order’s ears? He hurried 
back around the table to Ron and Hermione, who 
were squatting on the grass some distance away and 
attempting to persuade a bowtruckle to remain still 
long enough to draw it. Harry pulled out parchment 



Page | 331Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and quill, crouched down beside the others, and 
related in a whisper what Malfoy had just said. 

“Dumbledore would know if something had happened 
to Hagrid,” said Hermione at once. “It’s just playing 
into Malfoy’s hands to look worried, it tells him we 
don’t know exactly what’s going on. We’ve got to 
ignore him, Harry. Here, hold the bowtruckle for a 
moment, just so I can draw its face...” 

“Yes,” came Malfoy’s clear drawl from the group 
nearest them, “Father was talking to the Minister just 
a couple of days ago, you know, and it sounds as 
though the Ministry’s really determined to crack down 
on substandard teaching in this place. So even if that 
overgrown moron does show up again, he’ll probably 
be sent packing straight away.” 

“OUCH!” 

Harry had gripped the bowtruckle so hard that it had 
almost snapped; it had just taken a great retaliatory 
swipe at his hand with its sharp fingers, leaving two 
long deep cuts there. Harry dropped it; Crabbe and 
Goyle, who had already been guffawing at the idea of 
Hagrid being sacked, laughed still harder as the 
bowtruckle set off at full tilt toward the forest, a little, 
moving stickman soon swallowed up by the tree roots. 
When the bell echoed distantly over the grounds 
Harry rolled up his bloodstained bowtruckle picture 
and marched off to Herbology with his hand wrapped 
in a handkerchief of Hermione ’s and Malfoy’s derisive 
laughter still ringing in his ears. 

“If he calls Hagrid a moron one more time ...” snarled 
Harry. 



Page | 332Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, don’t go picking a row with Malfoy, don’t 
forget, he’s a prefect now, he could make life difficult 
for you...” 

“Wow, I wonder what it’d be like to have a difficult 
life?” said Harry sarcastically. Ron laughed, but 
Hermione frowned. Together they traipsed across the 
vegetable patch. The sky still appeared unable to 
make up its mind whether it wanted to rain or not. 

“I just wish Hagrid would hurry up and get back, 
that’s all,” said Harry in a low voice, as they reached 
the greenhouses. “And don’t say that Grubbly-Plank 
woman’s a better teacher!” he added threateningly. 

“I wasn’t going to,” said Hermione calmly. 

“Because she’ll never be as good as Hagrid,” said 
Harry firmly, fully aware that he had just experienced 
an exemplary Care of Magical Creatures lesson and 
was thoroughly annoyed about it. 

The door of the nearest greenhouse opened and some 
fourth years spilled out of it, including Ginny. 

“Hi,” she said brightly as she passed. A few seconds 
later, Luna Lovegood emerged, trailing behind the rest 
of the class, a smudge of earth on her nose and her 
hair tied in a knot on the top of her head. When she 
saw Harry, her prominent eyes seemed to bulge 
excitedly and she made a beeline straight for him. 
Many of his classmates turned curiously to watch. 
Luna took a great breath and then said, without so 
much as a preliminary hello: “I believe He-Who-Must- 
Not-Be-Named is back, and I believe you fought him 
and escaped from him.” 

“Er — right,” said Harry awkwardly. Luna was 
wearing what looked like a pair of orange radishes for 

Page | 333Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




earrings, a fact that Parvati and Lavender seemed to 
have noticed, as they were both giggling and pointing 
at her earlobes. 

“You can laugh!” Luna said, her voice rising, 
apparently under the impression that Parvati and 
Lavender were laughing at what she had said rather 
than what she was wearing. “But people used to 
believe there were no such things as the Blibbering 
Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned Snorkack!” 

“Well, they were right, weren’t they?” said Hermione 
impatiently. “There weren’t any such things as the 
Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned 
Snorkack.” 

Luna gave her a withering look and flounced away, 
radishes swinging madly. Parvati and Lavender were 
not the only ones hooting with laughter now. 

“D’you mind not offending the only people who believe 
me?” Harry asked Hermione as they made their way 
into class. 

“Oh, for heaven’s sake, Harry, you can do better than 
her,” said Hermione. “Ginny’s told me all about her, 
apparently she’ll only believe in things as long as 
there’s no proof at all. Well, I wouldn’t expect 
anything else from someone whose father runs The 
Quibbler.” 

Harry thought of the sinister winged horses he had 
seen on the night he had arrived and how Luna had 
said she could see them too. His spirits sank slightly. 
Had she been lying? But before he could devote much 
more thought to the matter, Ernie Macmillan had 
stepped up to him. 



Page | 334Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“I want you to know, Potter,” he said in a loud, 
carrying voice, “that it’s not only weirdos who support 
you. I personally believe you one hundred percent. My 
family have always stood firm behind Dumbledore, 
and so do I.” 

“Er — thanks very much, Ernie,” said Harry, taken 
aback but pleased. Ernie might be pompous on 
occasions like these, but Harry was in a mood to 
deeply appreciate a vote of confidence from somebody 
who was not wearing radishes in their ears. Ernie’s 
words had certainly wiped the smile from Lavender 
Brown’s face and, as he turned to talk to Ron and 
Hermione, Harry caught Seamus’s expression, which 
looked both confused and defiant. 

To nobody’s surprise, Professor Sprout started their 
lesson by lecturing them about the importance of 
O.W.L.s. Harry wished all the teachers would stop 
doing this; he was starting to get an anxious, twisted 
feeling in his stomach every time he remembered how 
much homework he had to do, a feeling that 
worsened dramatically when Professor Sprout gave 
them yet another essay at the end of class. Tired and 
smelling strongly of dragon dung, Professor Sprout’s 
preferred brand of fertilizer, the Gryffindors trooped 
back up to the castle an hour and a half later, none of 
them talking very much; it had been another long 
day. 

As Harry was starving, and he had his first detention 
with Umbridge at five o’clock, he headed straight for 
dinner without dropping off his bag in Gryffindor 
Tower so that he could bolt something down before 
facing whatever she had in store for him. He had 
barely reached the entrance of the Great Hall, 
however, when a loud and angry voice said, “Oy, 
Potter!” 



Page | 335Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What now?” he muttered wearily, turning to face 
Angelina Johnson, who looked as though she was in a 
towering temper. 

“I’ll tell you what now,” she said, marching straight 
up to him and poking him hard in the chest with her 
finger. “How come you’ve landed yourself in detention 
for five o’clock on Friday?” 

“What?” said Harry. “Why ... oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!” 

“Now he remembers!” snarled Angelina. “Didn’t I tell 
you I wanted to do a tryout with the whole team, and 
find someone who fitted in with everyone? Didn’t I tell 
you I’d booked the Quidditch pitch specially? And 
now you’ve decided you’re not going to be there!” 

“I didn’t decide not to be there!” said Harry, stung by 
the injustice of these words. “I got detention from that 
Umbridge woman, just because I told her the truth 
about You-Know-Who — ” 

“Well, you can just go straight to her and ask her to 
let you off on Friday,” said Angelina fiercely, “and I 
don’t care how you do it, tell her You-Know-Who ’s a 
figment of your imagination if you like, just make sure 
you’re therel” 

She stormed away. 

“You know what?” Harry said to Ron and Hermione as 
they entered the Great Hall. “I think we’d better check 
with Puddlemere United whether Oliver Wood’s been 
killed during a training session, because she seems to 
be channeling his spirit.” 

“What d’you reckon are the odds of Umbridge letting 
you off on Friday?” said Ron skeptically, as they sat 
