know how to — ?” 

“Must’ve learned from the Carrows,” said Harry 
grimly. 

“Shame he wasn’t concentrating when they 
mentioned how to stop it, really,” said Ron, whose 
hair, like Hermione’s, was singed, and whose face was 
blackened. “If he hadn’t tried to kill us all, I’d be quite 
sorry he was dead.” 

“But don’t you realize?” whispered Hermione. “This 
means, if we can just get the snake — ” 

But she broke off as yells and shouts and the 
unmistakable noises of dueling filled the corridor. 
Harry looked around and his heart seemed to fail: 
Death Eaters had penetrated Hogwarts. Fred and 
Percy had just backed into view, both of them dueling 
masked and hooded men. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione ran forward to help: Jets of 
light flew in every direction and the man dueling 
Percy backed off, fast: Then his hood slipped and they 
saw a high forehead and streaked hair — 

“Hello, Minister!” bellowed Percy, sending a neat jinx 
straight at Thicknesse, who dropped his wand and 
clawed at the front of his robes, apparently in awful 
discomfort. “Did I mention I’m resigning?” 

“You’re joking, Perce!” shouted Fred as the Death 
Eater he was battling collapsed under the weight of 
three separate Stunning Spells. Thicknesse had fallen 
to the ground with tiny spikes erupting all over him; 
he seemed to be turning into some form of sea urchin. 
Fred looked at Percy with glee. 



Page | 719 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You actually are joking, Perce. ... I don’t think I’ve 
heard you joke since you were — ” 

The air exploded. They had been grouped together, 
Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and Percy, the two 
Death Eaters at their feet, one Stunned, the other 
Transfigured; and in that fragment of a moment, 
when danger seemed temporarily at bay, the world 
was rent apart. Harry felt himself flying through the 
air, and all he could do was hold as tightly as possible 
to that thin stick of wood that was his one and only 
weapon, and shield his head in his arms: He heard 
the screams and yells of his companions without a 
hope of knowing what had happened to them — 

And then the world resolved itself into pain and 
semidarkness: He was half buried in the wreckage of 
a corridor that had been subjected to a terrible 
attack. Cold air told him that the side of the castle 
had been blown away, and hot stickiness on his 
cheek told him that he was bleeding copiously. Then 
he heard a terrible cry that pulled at his insides, that 
expressed agony of a kind neither flame nor curse 
could cause, and he stood up, swaying, more 
frightened than he had been that day, more 
frightened, perhaps, than he had been in his life. ... 

And Hermione was struggling to her feet in the 
wreckage, and three redheaded men were grouped on 
the ground where the wall had blasted apart. Harry 
grabbed Hermione ’s hand as they staggered and 
stumbled over stone and wood. 

“No — no — no!” someone was shouting. “No! Fred! 
No!” 

And Percy was shaking his brother, and Ron was 
kneeling beside them, and Fred’s eyes stared without 



Page | 720 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




seeing, the ghost of his last laugh still etched upon 
his face. 



Page | 721 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE ELDER WAND 

The world had ended, so why had the battle not 
ceased, the castle fallen silent in horror, and every 
combatant laid down their arms? Harry’s mind was in 
free fall, spinning out of control, unable to grasp the 
impossibility, because Fred Weasley could not be 
dead, the evidence of all his senses must be lying — 

And then a body fell past the hole blown into the side 
of the school, and curses flew in at them from the 
darkness, hitting the wall behind their heads. 

“Get down!” Harry shouted, as more curses flew 
through the night: He and Ron had both grabbed 
Hermione and pulled her to the floor, but Percy lay 
across Fred’s body, shielding it from further harm, 
and when Harry shouted, “Percy, come on, we’ve got 
to move!” he shook his head. 

“Percy!” Harry saw tear tracks streaking the grime 
coating Ron’s face as he seized his elder brother’s 
shoulders and pulled, but Percy would not budge. 



Page | 722 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“Percy, you can’t do anything for him! We’re going to 



Hermione screamed, and Harry, turning, did not need 
to ask why. A monstrous spider the size of a small car 
was trying to climb through the huge hole in the wall: 
One of Aragog’s descendants had joined the fight. 

Ron and Harry shouted together; their spells collided 
and the monster was blown backward, its legs jerking 
horribly, and vanished into the darkness. 

“It brought friends!” Harry called to the others, 
glancing over the edge of the castle through the hole 
in the wall the curses had blasted: More giant spiders 
were climbing the side of the building, liberated from 
the Forbidden Forest, into which the Death Eaters 
must have penetrated. Harry fired Stunning Spells 
down upon them, knocking the lead monster into its 
fellows, so that they rolled back down the building 
and out of sight. Then more curses came soaring over 
Harry’s head, so close he felt the force of them blow 
his hair. 

“Let’s move, NOW!” 

Pushing Hermione ahead of him with Ron, Harry 
stooped to seize Fred’s body under the armpits. Percy, 
realizing what Harry was trying to do, stopped 
clinging to the body and helped; together, crouching 
low to avoid the curses flying at them from the 
grounds, they hauled Fred out of the way. 

“Here,” said Harry, and they placed him in a niche 
where a suit of armor had stood earlier. He could not 
bear to look at Fred a second longer than he had to, 
and after making sure that the body was well hidden, 
he took off after Ron and Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle 
had vanished, but at the end of the corridor, which 
Page | 723 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




was now full of dust and falling masonry, glass long 
gone from the windows, he saw many people running 
backward and forward, whether friends or foes he 
could not tell. Rounding the corner, Percy let out a 
bull-like roar: “ROOKWOOD!” and sprinted off in the 
direction of a tall man, who was pursuing a couple of 
students. 

“Harry, in here!” Hermione screamed. 

She had pulled Ron behind a tapestry: They seemed 
to be wrestling together, and for one mad second 
Harry thought that they were embracing again; then 
he saw that Hermione was trying to restrain Ron, to 
stop him running after Percy. 

“Listen to me — LISTEN, ROM” 

“I wanna help — I wanna kill Death Eaters — ” 

His face was contorted, smeared with dust and 
smoke, and he was shaking with rage and grief. 

“Ron, we’re the only ones who can end it! Please — 
Ron — we need the snake, we’ve got to kill the snake!” 
said Hermione. 

But Harry knew how Ron felt: Pursuing another 
Horcrux could not bring the satisfaction of revenge; 
he too wanted to fight, to punish them, the people 
who had killed Fred, and he wanted to find the other 
Weasleys, and above all make sure, make quite sure, 
that Ginny was not — but he could not permit that 
idea to form in his mind — 

“We will fight!” Hermione said. “We’ll have to, to reach 
the snake! But let’s not lose sight now of what we’re 
supposed to be d-doing! We’re the only ones who can 
end it!” 

Page | 724 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




She was crying too, and she wiped her face on her 
torn and singed sleeve as she spoke, but she took 
great heaving breaths to calm herself as, still keeping 
a tight hold on Ron, she turned to Harry. 

“You need to find out where Voldemort is, because 
hell have the snake with him, won’t he? Do it, Harry 
— look inside him!” 

Why was it so easy? Because his scar had been 
burning for hours, yearning to show him Voldemort’s 
thoughts? He closed his eyes on her command, and at 
once, the screams and the bangs and all the 
discordant sounds of the battle were drowned until 
they became distant, as though he stood far, far away 
from them. ... 

He was standing in the middle of a desolate but 
strangely familiar room, with peeling paper on the 
walls and all the windows boarded except for one. The 
sounds of the assault on the castle were muffled and 
distant. The single unblocked window revealed 
distant bursts of light where the castle stood, but 
inside the room it was dark except for a solitary oil 
lamp. 

He was rolling his wand between his fingers, watching 
it, his thoughts on the room in the castle, the secret 
room only he had ever found, the room, like the 
Chamber, that you had to be clever and cunning and 
inquisitive to discover. . . . He was confident that the 
boy would not find the diadem . . . although 
Dumbledore’s puppet had come much farther than he 
had ever expected . . . too far. . . . 

“My Lord,” said a voice, desperate and cracked. He 
turned: There was Lucius Malfoy sitting in the 
darkest corner, ragged and still bearing the marks of 
the punishment he had received after the boy’s last 

Page | 725 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




escape. One of his eyes remained closed and puffy. 
“My Lord ... please ... my son ...” 

“If your son is dead, Lucius, it is not my fault. He did 
not come and join me, like the rest of the Slytherins. 
Perhaps he has decided to befriend Harry Potter?” 

“No — never,” whispered Malfoy. 

“You must hope not.” 

“Aren’t — aren’t you afraid, my Lord, that Potter 
might die at another hand but yours?” asked Malfoy, 
his voice shaking. “Wouldn’t it be ... forgive me ... 
more prudent to call off this battle, enter the castle, 
and seek him y-yourself?” 

“Do not pretend, Lucius. You wish the battle to cease 
so that you can discover what has happened to your 
son. And I do not need to seek Potter. Before the night 
is out, Potter will have come to find me.” 

Voldemort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in 
his fingers. It troubled him ... and those things that 
troubled Lord Voldemort needed to be rearranged. ... 

“Go and fetch Snape.” 

“Snape, m-my Lord?” 

“Snape. Now. I need him. There is a — service — I 
require from him. Go.” 

Frightened, stumbling a little through the gloom, 
Lucius left the room. Voldemort continued to stand 
there, twirling the wand between his fingers, staring 
at it. 



Page | 726 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“It is the only way, Nagini,” he whispered, and he 
looked around, and there was the great thick snake, 
now suspended in midair, twisting gracefully within 
the enchanted, protected space he had made for her, 
a starry, transparent sphere somewhere between 
glittering cage and tank. 

With a gasp, Harry pulled back and opened his eyes; 
at the same moment his ears were assaulted with the 
screeches and cries, the smashes and bangs of battle. 

“He’s in the Shrieking Shack. The snake’s with him, 
it’s got some sort of magical protection around it. He’s 
just sent Lucius Malfoy to find Snape.” 

“Voldemort’s sitting in the Shrieking Shack?” said 
Hermione, outraged. “He’s not — he’s not even 
fighting?” 

“He doesn’t think he needs to fight,” said Harry. “He 
thinks I’m going to go to him.” 

“But why?” 

“He knows I’m after Horcruxes — he’s keeping Nagini 
close beside him — obviously I’m going to have to go 
to him to get near the thing — ” 

“Right,” said Ron, squaring his shoulders. “So you 
can’t go, that’s what he wants, what he’s expecting. 
You stay here and look after Hermione, and I’ll go and 
get it — ” 

Harry cut across Ron. 

“You two stay here, I’ll go under the Cloak and I’ll be 
back as soon as I — ” 



Page | 727 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Hermione, “it makes much more sense if I 
take the Cloak and — ” 

“Don’t even think about it,” Ron snarled at her. 

Before Hermione could get farther than “Ron, I’m just 
as capable — ” the tapestry at the top of the staircase 
on which they stood was ripped open. 

“POTTER!” 

Two masked Death Eaters stood there, but even 
before their wands were fully raised, Hermione 
shouted, “Glisseo\” 

The stairs beneath their feet flattened into a chute 
and she, Harry, and Ron hurtled down it, unable to 
control their speed but so fast that the Death Eaters’ 
Stunning Spells flew far over their heads. They shot 
through the concealing tapestry at the bottom and 
spun onto the floor, hitting the opposite wall. 

“Duro\” cried Hermione, pointing her wand at the 
tapestry, and there were two loud, sickening crunches 
as the tapestry turned to stone and the Death Eaters 
pursuing them crumpled against it. 

“Get back!” shouted Ron, and he, Harry, and 
Hermione flattened themselves against a door as a 
herd of galloping desks thundered past, shepherded 
by a sprinting Professor McGonagall. She appeared 
not to notice them: Her hair had come down and 
there was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the 
corner, they heard her scream, “CHARGE!” 

“Harry, you get the Cloak on,” said Hermione. “Never 
mind us — ” 



Page | 728 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




But he threw it over all three of them; large though 
they were, he doubted anyone would see their 
disembodied feet through the dust that clogged the 
air, the falling stone, the shimmer of spells. 

They ran down the next staircase and found 
themselves in a corridor full of duelers. The portraits 
on either side of the fighters were crammed with 
figures screaming advice and encouragement, while 
Death Eaters, both masked and unmasked, dueled 
students and teachers. Dean had won himself a 
wand, for he was face-to-face with Dolohov, Parvati 
with Travers. Harry, Ron, and Hermione raised their 
wands at once, ready to strike, but the duelers were 
weaving and darting around so much that there was a 
strong likelihood of hurting one of their own side if 
they cast curses. Even as they stood braced, looking 
for the opportunity to act, there came a great 
“Wheeeeeeeeeeee\” and, looking up, Harry saw Peeves 
zooming over them, dropping Snargaluff pods down 
onto the Death Eaters, whose heads were suddenly 
engulfed in wriggling green tubers like fat worms. 

“Argh!” 

A fistful of tubers had hit the Cloak over Ron’s head; 
the slimy green roots were suspended improbably in 
midair as Ron tried to shake them loose. 

“Someone’s invisible there!” shouted a masked Death 
Eater, pointing. 

Dean made the most of the Death Eater’s momentary 
distraction, knocking him out with a Stunning Spell; 
Dolohov attempted to retaliate and Parvati shot a 
Body-Bind Curse at him. 

“LET’S GO!” Harry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione 
gathered the Cloak tightly around themselves and 

Page | 729 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




pelted, heads down, through the midst of the fighters, 
slipping a little in pools of Snargaluff juice, toward the 
top of the marble staircase into the entrance hall. 

“I’m Draco Malfoy, I’m Draco, I’m on your side!” 

Draco was on the upper landing, pleading with 
another masked Death Eater. Harry Stunned the 
Death Eater as they passed: Malfoy looked around, 
beaming, for his savior, and Ron punched him from 
under the Cloak. Malfoy fell backward on top of the 
Death Eater, his mouth bleeding, utterly bemused. 

“And that’s the second time we’ve saved your life 
tonight, you two-faced bastard!” Ron yelled. 

There were more duelers all over the stairs and in the 
hall, Death Eaters everywhere Harry looked: Yaxley, 
close to the front doors, in combat with Flitwick, a 
masked Death Eater dueling Kingsley right beside 
them. Students ran in every direction, some carrying 
or dragging injured friends. Harry directed a Stunning 
Spell toward the masked Death Eater; it missed but 
nearly hit Neville, who had emerged from nowhere 
brandishing armfuls of Venomous Tentacula, which 
looped itself happily around the nearest Death Eater 
and began reeling him in. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione sped down the marble 
staircase: Glass shattered to their left, and the 
Slytherin hourglass that had recorded House points 
spilled its emeralds everywhere, so that people slipped 
and staggered as they ran. Two bodies fell from the 
balcony overhead as they reached the ground, and a 
gray blur that Harry took for an animal sped four- 
legged across the hall to sink its teeth into one of the 
fallen. 



Page | 730 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“NO!” shrieked Hermione, and with a deafening blast 
from her wand, Fenrir Greyback was thrown 
backward from the feebly stirring body of Lavender 
Brown. He hit the marble banisters and struggled to 
return to his feet. Then, with a bright white flash and 
a crack, a crystal ball fell on top of his head, and he 
crumpled to the ground and did not move. 

“I have more!” shrieked Professor Trelawney from over 
the banisters. “More for any who want them! Here — ” 

And with a movement like a tennis serve, she heaved 
another enormous crystal sphere from her bag, waved 
her wand through the air, and caused the ball to 
speed across the hall and smash through a window. 
At the same moment, the heavy wooden front doors 
burst open, and more of the gigantic spiders forced 
their way into the entrance hall. 

Screams of terror rent the air: The fighters scattered, 
Death Eaters and Hogwartians alike, and red and 
green jets of light flew into the midst of the oncoming 
monsters, which shuddered and reared, more 
terrifying than ever. 

“How do we get out?” yelled Ron over all the 
screaming, but before either Harry or Hermione could 
answer they were bowled aside: Hagrid had come 
thundering down the stairs, brandishing his flowery 
pink umbrella. 

“Don’t hurt ’em, don’t hurt ’em!” he yelled. 

“HAGRID, NO!” 

Harry forgot everything else: He sprinted out from 
under the Cloak, running bent double to avoid the 
curses illuminating the whole hall. 



Page | 731 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“HAGRID, COME BACK!” 



But he was not even halfway to Hagrid when he saw it 
happen: Hagrid vanished amongst the spiders, and 
with a great scurrying, a foul swarming movement, 
they retreated under the onslaught of spells, Hagrid 
buried in their midst. 

“HAGRID!” 

Harry heard someone calling his own name, whether 
friend or foe he did not care: He was sprinting down 
the front steps into the dark grounds, and the spiders 
were swarming away with their prey, and he could see 
nothing of Hagrid at all. 

“HAGRID!” 

He thought he could make out an enormous arm 
waving from the midst of the spider swarm, but as he 
made to chase after them, his way was impeded by a 
monumental foot, which swung down out of the 
darkness and made the ground on which he stood 
shudder. He looked up: A giant stood before him, 
twenty feet high, its head hidden in shadow, nothing 
but its treelike, hairy shins illuminated by light from 
the castle doors. With one brutal, fluid movement, it 
smashed a massive fist through an upper window, 
and glass rained down upon Harry, forcing him back 
under the shelter of the doorway. 

“Oh my — !” shrieked Hermione, as she and Ron 
caught up with Harry and gazed upward at the giant 
now trying to seize people through the window above. 

“DONT!” Ron yelled, grabbing Hermione’s hand as 
she raised her wand. “Stun him and hell crush half 
the castle — ” 

Page | 732 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“HAGGER?” 



Grawp came lurching around the corner of the castle; 
only now did Harry realize that Grawp was, indeed, 
an undersized giant. The gargantuan monster trying 
to crush people on the upper floors looked around 
and let out a roar. The stone steps trembled as he 
stomped toward his smaller kin, and Grawp ’s 
lopsided mouth fell open, showing yellow, half-brick- 
sized teeth; and then they launched themselves at 
each other with the savagery of lions. 

“RUN!” Harry roared; the night was full of hideous 
yells and blows as the giants wrestled, and he seized 
Hermione’s hand and tore down the steps into the 
grounds, Ron bringing up the rear. Harry had not lost 
hope of finding and saving Hagrid; he ran so fast that 
they were halfway toward the forest before they were 
brought up short again. 

The air around them had frozen: Harry’s breath 
caught and solidified in his chest. Shapes moved out 
in the darkness, swirling figures of concentrated 
blackness, moving in a great wave toward the castle, 
their faces hooded and their breath rattling. . . . 

Ron and Hermione closed in beside him as the 
sounds of fighting behind them grew suddenly muted, 
deadened, because a silence only dementors could 
bring was falling thickly through the night, and Fred 
was gone, and Hagrid was surely dying or already 
dead. ... 

“Come on, Harry!” said Hermione’s voice from a very 
long way away. “Patronuses, Harry, come on!” 

He raised his wand, but a dull hopelessness was 
spreading through him: How many more lay dead 



Page | 733 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




that he did not yet know about; he felt as though his 
soul had already half left his body. . . . 



“HARRY, COME ON!” screamed Hermione. 

A hundred dementors were advancing, gliding toward 

them, sucking their way closer to Harry’s despair, 
which was like a promise of a feast. ... 

He saw Ron’s silver terrier burst into the air, flicker 
feebly, and expire; he saw Hermione’s otter twist in 
midair and fade; and his own wand trembled in his 
hand, and he almost welcomed the oncoming 
oblivion, the promise of nothing, of no feeling. . . . 

And then a silver hare, a boar, and a fox soared past 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s heads: The dementors 
fell back before the creatures’ approach. Three more 
people had arrived out of the darkness to stand 
beside them, their wands outstretched, continuing to 
cast their Patronuses: Luna, Ernie, and Seamus. 

“That’s right,” said Luna encouragingly, as if they 
were back in the Room of Requirement and this was 
simply spell practice for the D.A. “That’s right, Harry 
... come on, think of something happy. ...” 

“Something happy?” he said, his voice cracked. 

“We’re all still here,” she whispered, “we’re still 
fighting. Come on, now. ...” 

There was a silver spark, then a wavering light, and 

then, with the greatest effort it had ever cost him, the 
stag burst from the end of Harry’s wand. It cantered 
forward, and now the dementors scattered in earnest, 
and immediately the night was mild again, but the 
sounds of the surrounding battle were loud in his 
ears. 

Page | 734 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Can’t thank you enough,” said Ron shakily, turning 
to Luna, Ernie, and Seamus, “you just saved — ” 

With a roar and an earth-quaking tremor, another 
giant came lurching out of the darkness from the 
direction of the forest, brandishing a club taller than 
any of them. 

“RUN!” Harry shouted again, but the others needed 
no telling: They all scattered, and not a second too 
soon, for next moment the creature’s vast foot had 
fallen exactly where they had been standing. Harry 
looked round: Ron and Hermione were following him, 
but the other three had vanished back into the battle. 

“Let’s get out of range!” yelled Ron as the giant swung 
its club again and its bellows echoed through the 
night, across the grounds where bursts of red and 
green light continued to illuminate the darkness. 

“The Whomping Willow,” said Harry, “go!” 

Somehow he walled it all up in his mind, crammed it 
into a small space into which he could not look now: 
Thoughts of Fred and Hagrid, and his terror for all the 
people he loved, scattered in and outside the castle, 
must all wait, because they had to run, had to reach 
the snake and Voldemort, because that was, as 
Hermione said, the only way to end it — 

He sprinted, half believing he could outdistance death 
itself, ignoring the jets of light flying in the darkness 
all around him, and the sound of the lake crashing 
like the sea, and the creaking of the Forbidden Forest 
though the night was windless; through grounds that 
seemed themselves to have risen in rebellion, he ran 
faster than he had ever moved in his life, and it was 
he who saw the great tree first, the Willow that 



Page | 735 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




protected the secret at its roots with whiplike, 
slashing branches. 



Panting and gasping, Harry slowed down, skirting the 
Willow’s swiping branches, peering through the 
darkness toward its thick trunk, trying to see the 
single knot in the bark of the old tree that would 
paralyze it. Ron and Hermione caught up, Hermione 
so out of breath she could not speak. 

“How — how’re we going to get in?” panted Ron. “I can 
— see the place — if we just had — Crookshanks 
again — ” 

“Crookshanks?” wheezed Hermione, bent double, 
clutching her chest. “Are you a wizard, or what?” 

“Oh — right — yeah — ” 

Ron looked around, then directed his wand at a twig 
on the ground and said, “Wingardium Leviosal” The 
twig flew up from the ground, spun through the air as 
if caught by a gust of wind, then zoomed directly at 
the trunk through the Willow’s ominously swaying 
branches. It jabbed at a place near the roots, and at 
once, the writhing tree became still. 

“Perfect!” panted Hermione. 

“Wait.” 

For one teetering second, while the crashes and 
booms of the battle filled the air, Harry hesitated. 
Voldemort wanted him to do this, wanted him to 
come. ... Was he leading Ron and Hermione into a 
trap? 

But then the reality seemed to close upon him, cruel 
and plain: The only way forward was to kill the snake, 

Page | 736 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




and the snake was where Voldemort was, and 
Voldemort was at the end of this tunnel. ... 



“Harry, we’re coming, just get in there!” said Ron, 
pushing him forward. 

Harry wriggled into the earthy passage hidden in the 
tree’s roots. It was a much tighter squeeze than it had 
been the last time they had entered it. The tunnel was 
low-ceilinged: They had had to double up to move 
through it nearly four years previously; now there was 
nothing for it but to crawl. Harry went first, his wand 
illuminated, expecting at any moment to meet 
barriers, but none came. They moved in silence, 
Harry’s gaze fixed upon the swinging beam of the 
wand held in his fist. 

At last the tunnel began to slope upward and Harry 
saw a sliver of light ahead. Hermione tugged at his 
ankle. 

“The Cloak!” she whispered. “Put the Cloak on!” 

He groped behind him and she forced the bundle of 
slippery cloth into his free hand. With difficulty he 
dragged it over himself, murmured, “Nox,” 
extinguishing his wandlight, and continued on his 
hands and knees, as silently as possible, all his 
senses straining, expecting every second to be 
discovered, to hear a cold clear voice, see a flash of 
green light. 

And then he heard voices coming from the room 
directly ahead of them, only slightly muffled by the 
fact that the opening at the end of the tunnel had 
been blocked up by what looked like an old crate. 
Hardly daring to breathe, Harry edged right up to the 
opening and peered through a tiny gap left between 
crate and wall. 

Page | 737 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




The room beyond was dimly lit, but he could see 
Nagini, swirling and coiling like a serpent underwater, 
safe in her enchanted, starry sphere, which floated 
unsupported in midair. He could see the edge of a 
table, and a long-fingered white hand toying with a 
wand. Then Snape spoke, and Harry’s heart lurched: 
Snape was inches away from where he crouched, 
hidden. 

"... my Lord, their resistance is crumbling — ” 

“ — and it is doing so without your help,” said 
Voldemort in his high, clear voice. “Skilled wizard 
though you are, Severus, I do not think you will make 
much difference now. We are almost there ... almost.” 

“Let me find the boy. Let me bring you Potter. I know I 
can find him, my Lord. Please.” 

Snape strode past the gap, and Harry drew back a 
little, keeping his eyes fixed upon Nagini, wondering 
whether there was any spell that might penetrate the 
protection surrounding her, but he could not think of 
anything. One failed attempt, and he would give away 
his position. ... 

Voldemort stood up. Harry could see him now, see the 
red eyes, the flattened, serpentine face, the pallor of 
him gleaming slightly in the semidarkness. 

“I have a problem, Severus,” said Voldemort softly. 

“My Lord?” said Snape. 

Voldemort raised the Elder Wand, holding it as 
delicately and precisely as a conductor’s baton. 

“Why doesn’t it work for me, Severus?” 



Page | 738 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




In the silence Harry imagined he could hear the snake 
hissing slightly as it coiled and uncoiled — or was it 
Voldemort’s sibilant sigh lingering on the air? 

“My — my Lord?” said Snape blankly. “I do not 
understand. You — you have performed extraordinary 
magic with that wand.” 

“No,” said Voldemort. “I have performed my usual 
magic. I am extraordinary, but this wand ... no. It has 
not revealed the wonders it has promised. I feel no 
difference between this wand and the one I procured 
from Ollivander all those years ago.” 

Voldemort’s tone was musing, calm, but Harry’s scar 
had begun to throb and pulse: Pain was building in 
his forehead, and he could feel that controlled sense 
of fury building inside Voldemort. 

“No difference,” said Voldemort again. 

Snape did not speak. Harry could not see his face: He 
wondered whether Snape sensed danger, was trying 
to find the right words to reassure his master. 

Voldemort started to move around the room: Harry 
lost sight of him for seconds as he prowled, speaking 
in that same measured voice, while the pain and fury 
mounted in Harry. 

“I have thought long and hard, Severus. ... Do you 
know why I have called you back from the battle?” 

And for a moment Harry saw Snape ’s profile: His eyes 
were fixed upon the coiling snake in its enchanted 
cage. 

“No, my Lord, but I beg you will let me return. Let me 
find Potter.” 

Page | 739 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands 
Potter as I do. He does not need finding. Potter will 
come to me. I know his weakness, you see, his one 
great flaw. He will hate watching the others struck 
down around him, knowing that it is for him that it 
happens. He will want to stop it at any cost. He will 
come.” 

“But my Lord, he might be killed accidentally by one 
other than yourself — ” 

“My instructions to my Death Eaters have been 
perfectly clear. Capture Potter. Kill his friends — the 
more, the better — but do not kill him. 

“But it is of you that I wished to speak, Severus, not 
Harry Potter. You have been very valuable to me. Very 
valuable.” 

“My Lord knows I seek only to serve him. But — let 
me go and find the boy, my Lord. Let me bring him to 
you. I know I can — ” 

“I have told you, no!” said Voldemort, and Harry 
caught the glint of red in his eyes as he turned again, 
and the swishing of his cloak was like the slithering of 
a snake, and he felt Voldemort’s impatience in his 
burning scar. “My concern at the moment, Severus, is 
what will happen when I finally meet the boy!” 

“My Lord, there can be no question, surely — ?” 

“ — but there is a question, Severus. There is.” 

Voldemort halted, and Harry could see him plainly 
again as he slid the Elder Wand through his white 
fingers, staring at Snape. 



Page | 740 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“Why did both the wands I have used fail when 
directed at Harry Potter?” 

“I — I cannot answer that, my Lord.” 

“Can’t you?” 

The stab of rage felt like a spike driven through 
Harry’s head: He forced his own fist into his mouth to 
stop himself from crying out in pain. He closed his 
eyes, and suddenly he was Voldemort, looking into 
Snape’s pale face. 

“My wand of yew did everything of which I asked it, 
Severus, except to kill Harry Potter. Twice it failed. 
Ollivander told me under torture of the twin cores, 
told me to take another’s wand. I did so, but Lucius’s 
wand shattered upon meeting Potter’s.” 

“I — I have no explanation, my Lord.” 

Snape was not looking at Voldemort now. His dark 
eyes were still fixed upon the coiling serpent in its 
protective sphere. 

“I sought a third wand, Severus. The Elder Wand, the 
Wand of Destiny, the Deathstick. I took it from its 
previous master. I took it from the grave of Albus 
Dumbledore.” 

And now Snape looked at Voldemort, and Snape’s 
face was like a death mask. It was marble white and 
so still that when he spoke, it was a shock to see that 
anyone lived behind the blank eyes. 

“My Lord — let me go to the boy — ” 

“All this long night, when I am on the brink of victory, 

I have sat here,” said Voldemort, his voice barely 

Page | 741 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 
