The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Forsyte Saga, In Chancery, by John Galsworthy

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Forsyte Saga, In Chancery

Author: John Galsworthy

Release Date: April, 2001 [EBook #2594]
[Most recently updated: May 26, 2020]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FORSYTE SAGA, IN CHANCERY ***




Produced by David Widger

      spines (203K)

      subscription (12K)

      editon (10K)




      FORSYTE SAGA

      IN CHANCERY

      By John Galsworthy




      Contents


         INDIAN SUMMER OF A FORSYTE

         I

         II

         III

         IV

         V

         IN CHANCERY

         PART 1

         CHAPTER I—AT TIMOTHY’S

         CHAPTER II—EXIT A MAN OF THE WORLD

         CHAPTER III—SOAMES PREPARES TO TAKE STEPS

         CHAPTER IV—SOHO

         CHAPTER V—JAMES SEES VISIONS

         CHAPTER VI—NO-LONGER-YOUNG JOLYON AT HOME

         CHAPTER VII—THE COLT AND THE FILLY

         CHAPTER VIII—JOLYON PROSECUTES TRUSTEESHIP

         CHAPTER IX—VAL HEARS THE NEWS

         CHAPTER X—SOAMES ENTERTAINS THE FUTURE

         CHAPTER XI—AND VISITS THE PAST

         CHAPTER XII—ON FORSYTE ’CHANGE

         CHAPTER XIII—JOLYON FINDS OUT WHERE HE IS

         CHAPTER XIV—SOAMES DISCOVERS WHAT HE WANTS

         PART II

         CHAPTER I—THE THIRD GENERATION

         CHAPTER II—SOAMES PUTS IT TO THE TOUCH

         CHAPTER III—VISIT TO IRENE

         CHAPTER IV—WHERE FORSYTES FEAR TO TREAD

         CHAPTER V—JOLLY SITS IN JUDGMENT

         CHAPTER VI—JOLYON IN TWO MINDS

         CHAPTER VII—DARTIE VERSUS DARTIE

         CHAPTER VIII—THE CHALLENGE

         CHAPTER IX—DINNER AT JAMES’

         CHAPTER X—DEATH OF THE DOG BALTHASAR

         CHAPTER XI—TIMOTHY STAYS THE ROT

         CHAPTER XII—PROGRESS OF THE CHASE

         CHAPTER XIII—“HERE WE ARE AGAIN!”

         CHAPTER XIV—OUTLANDISH NIGHT

         PART III

         CHAPTER I—SOAMES IN PARIS

         CHAPTER II—IN THE WEB

         CHAPTER III—RICHMOND PARK

         CHAPTER IV—OVER THE RIVER

         CHAPTER V—SOAMES ACTS

         CHAPTER VI—A SUMMER DAY

         CHAPTER VII—A SUMMER NIGHT

         CHAPTER VIII—JAMES IN WAITING

         CHAPTER IX—OUT OF THE WEB

         CHAPTER X—PASSING OF AN AGE

         CHAPTER XI—SUSPENDED ANIMATION

         CHAPTER XII—BIRTH OF A FORSYTE

         CHAPTER XIII—JAMES IS TOLD

         CHAPTER XIV—HIS


      titlpage2 (51K)

      frontis2 (109K)





      THE FORSYTE SAGA—VOLUME II

      By John Galsworthy

      TO ANDRÉ CHEVRILLON


      INDIAN SUMMER OF A FORSYTE

“And Summer’s lease hath all too short a date.”
                    —Shakespeare




      I


      In the last day of May in the early ’nineties, about six o’clock
      of the evening, old Jolyon Forsyte sat under the oak tree below
      the terrace of his house at Robin Hill. He was waiting for the
      midges to bite him, before abandoning the glory of the afternoon.
      His thin brown hand, where blue veins stood out, held the end of
      a cigar in its tapering, long-nailed fingers—a pointed polished
      nail had survived with him from those earlier Victorian days when
      to touch nothing, even with the tips of the fingers, had been so
      distinguished. His domed forehead, great white moustache, lean
      cheeks, and long lean jaw were covered from the westering
      sunshine by an old brown Panama hat. His legs were crossed; in
      all his attitude was serenity and a kind of elegance, as of an
      old man who every morning put eau de Cologne upon his silk
      handkerchief. At his feet lay a woolly brown-and-white dog trying
      to be a Pomeranian—the dog Balthasar between whom and old Jolyon
      primal aversion had changed into attachment with the years. Close
      to his chair was a swing, and on the swing was seated one of
      Holly’s dolls—called “Duffer Alice”—with her body fallen over her
      legs and her doleful nose buried in a black petticoat. She was
      never out of disgrace, so it did not matter to her how she sat.
      Below the oak tree the lawn dipped down a bank, stretched to the
      fernery, and, beyond that refinement, became fields, dropping to
      the pond, the coppice, and the prospect—“Fine, remarkable”—at
      which Swithin Forsyte, from under this very tree, had stared five
      years ago when he drove down with Irene to look at the house. Old
      Jolyon had heard of his brother’s exploit—that drive which had
      become quite celebrated on Forsyte ’Change. Swithin! And the
      fellow had gone and died, last November, at the age of only
      seventy-nine, renewing the doubt whether Forsytes could live for
      ever, which had first arisen when Aunt Ann passed away. Died! and
      left only Jolyon and James, Roger and Nicholas and Timothy,
      Julia, Hester, Susan! And old Jolyon thought: “Eighty-five! I
      don’t feel it—except when I get that pain.”

      His memory went searching. He had not felt his age since he had
      bought his nephew Soames’ ill-starred house and settled into it
      here at Robin Hill over three years ago. It was as if he had been
      getting younger every spring, living in the country with his son
      and his grandchildren—June, and the little ones of the second
      marriage, Jolly and Holly; living down here out of the racket of
      London and the cackle of Forsyte ’Change, free of his boards, in
      a delicious atmosphere of no work and all play, with plenty of
      occupation in the perfecting and mellowing of the house and its
      twenty acres, and in ministering to the whims of Holly and Jolly.
      All the knots and crankiness, which had gathered in his heart
      during that long and tragic business of June, Soames, Irene his
      wife, and poor young Bosinney, had been smoothed out. Even June
      had thrown off her melancholy at last—witness this travel in
      Spain she was taking now with her father and her stepmother.
      Curiously perfect peace was left by their departure; blissful,
      yet blank, because his son was not there. Jo was never anything
      but a comfort and a pleasure to him nowadays—an amiable chap; but
      women, somehow—even the best—got a little on one’s nerves, unless
      of course one admired them.

      Far-off a cuckoo called; a wood-pigeon was cooing from the first
      elm-tree in the field, and how the daisies and buttercups had
      sprung up after the last mowing! The wind had got into the sou’
      west, too—a delicious air, sappy! He pushed his hat back and let
      the sun fall on his chin and cheek. Somehow, to-day, he wanted
      company—wanted a pretty face to look at. People treated the old
      as if they wanted nothing. And with the un-Forsytean philosophy
      which ever intruded on his soul, he thought: “One’s never had
      enough. With a foot in the grave one’ll want something, I
      shouldn’t be surprised!” Down here—away from the exigencies of
      affairs—his grandchildren, and the flowers, trees, birds of his
      little domain, to say nothing of sun and moon and stars above
      them, said, “Open, sesame,” to him day and night. And sesame had
      opened—how much, perhaps, he did not know. He had always been
      responsive to what they had begun to call “Nature,” genuinely,
      almost religiously responsive, though he had never lost his habit
      of calling a sunset a sunset and a view a view, however deeply
      they might move him. But nowadays Nature actually made him ache,
      he appreciated it so. Every one of these calm, bright,
      lengthening days, with Holly’s hand in his, and the dog Balthasar
      in front looking studiously for what he never found, he would
      stroll, watching the roses open, fruit budding on the walls,
      sunlight brightening the oak leaves and saplings in the coppice,
      watching the water-lily leaves unfold and glisten, and the
      silvery young corn of the one wheat field; listening to the
      starlings and skylarks, and the Alderney cows chewing the cud,
      flicking slow their tufted tails; and every one of these fine
      days he ached a little from sheer love of it all, feeling
      perhaps, deep down, that he had not very much longer to enjoy it.
      The thought that some day—perhaps not ten years hence, perhaps
      not five—all this world would be taken away from him, before he
      had exhausted his powers of loving it, seemed to him in the
      nature of an injustice brooding over his horizon. If anything
      came after this life, it wouldn’t be what he wanted; not Robin
      Hill, and flowers and birds and pretty faces—too few, even now,
      of those about him! With the years his dislike of humbug had
      increased; the orthodoxy he had worn in the ’sixties, as he had
      worn side-whiskers out of sheer exuberance, had long dropped off,
      leaving him reverent before three things alone—beauty, upright
      conduct, and the sense of property; and the greatest of these now
      was beauty. He had always had wide interests, and, indeed could
      still read _The Times_, but he was liable at any moment to put it
      down if he heard a blackbird sing. Upright conduct,
      property—somehow, they were tiring; the blackbirds and the
      sunsets never tired him, only gave him an uneasy feeling that he
      could not get enough of them. Staring into the stilly radiance of
      the early evening and at the little gold and white flowers on the
      lawn, a thought came to him: This weather was like the music of
      “Orfeo,” which he had recently heard at Covent Garden. A
      beautiful opera, not like Meyerbeer, nor even quite Mozart, but,
      in its way, perhaps even more lovely; something classical and of
      the Golden Age about it, chaste and mellow, and the Ravogli
      “almost worthy of the old days”—highest praise he could bestow.
      The yearning of Orpheus for the beauty he was losing, for his
      love going down to Hades, as in life love and beauty did go—the
      yearning which sang and throbbed through the golden music,
      stirred also in the lingering beauty of the world that evening.
      And with the tip of his cork-soled, elastic-sided boot he
      involuntarily stirred the ribs of the dog Balthasar, causing the
      animal to wake and attack his fleas; for though he was supposed
      to have none, nothing could persuade him of the fact. When he had
      finished he rubbed the place he had been scratching against his
      master’s calf, and settled down again with his chin over the
      instep of the disturbing boot. And into old Jolyon’s mind came a
      sudden recollection—a face he had seen at that opera three weeks
      ago—Irene, the wife of his precious nephew Soames, that man of
      property! Though he had not met her since the day of the “At
      Home” in his old house at Stanhope Gate, which celebrated his
      granddaughter June’s ill-starred engagement to young Bosinney, he
      had remembered her at once, for he had always admired her—a very
      pretty creature. After the death of young Bosinney, whose
      mistress she had so reprehensibly become, he had heard that she
      had left Soames at once. Goodness only knew what she had been
      doing since. That sight of her face—a side view—in the row in
      front, had been literally the only reminder these three years
      that she was still alive. No one ever spoke of her. And yet Jo
      had told him something once—something which had upset him
      completely. The boy had got it from George Forsyte, he believed,
      who had seen Bosinney in the fog the day he was run
      over—something which explained the young fellow’s distress—an act
      of Soames towards his wife—a shocking act. Jo had seen her, too,
      that afternoon, after the news was out, seen her for a moment,
      and his description had always lingered in old Jolyon’s
      mind—“wild and lost” he had called her. And next day June had
      gone there—bottled up her feelings and gone there, and the maid
      had cried and told her how her mistress had slipped out in the
      night and vanished. A tragic business altogether! One thing was
      certain—Soames had never been able to lay hands on her again. And
      he was living at Brighton, and journeying up and down—a fitting
      fate, the man of property! For when he once took a dislike to
      anyone—as he had to his nephew—old Jolyon never got over it. He
      remembered still the sense of relief with which he had heard the
      news of Irene’s disappearance. It had been shocking to think of
      her a prisoner in that house to which she must have wandered
      back, when Jo saw her, wandered back for a moment—like a wounded
      animal to its hole after seeing that news, “Tragic death of an
      Architect,” in the street. Her face had struck him very much the
      other night—more beautiful than he had remembered, but like a
      mask, with something going on beneath it. A young woman
      still—twenty-eight perhaps. Ah, well! Very likely she had another
      lover by now. But at this subversive thought—for married women
      should never love: once, even, had been too much—his instep rose,
      and with it the dog Balthasar’s head. The sagacious animal stood
      up and looked into old Jolyon’s face. “Walk?” he seemed to say;
      and old Jolyon answered: “Come on, old chap!”

      Slowly, as was their wont, they crossed among the constellations
      of buttercups and daisies, and entered the fernery. This feature,
      where very little grew as yet, had been judiciously dropped below
      the level of the lawn so that it might come up again on the level
      of the other lawn and give the impression of irregularity, so
      important in horticulture. Its rocks and earth were beloved of
      the dog Balthasar, who sometimes found a mole there. Old Jolyon
      made a point of passing through it because, though it was not
      beautiful, he intended that it should be, some day, and he would
      think: “I must get Varr to come down and look at it; he’s better
      than Beech.” For plants, like houses and human complaints,
      required the best expert consideration. It was inhabited by
      snails, and if accompanied by his grandchildren, he would point
      to one and tell them the story of the little boy who said: “Have
      plummers got leggers, Mother?” “No, sonny.” “Then darned if I
      haven’t been and swallowed a snileybob.” And when they skipped
      and clutched his hand, thinking of the snileybob going down the
      little boy’s “red lane,” his eyes would twinkle. Emerging from
      the fernery, he opened the wicket gate, which just there led into
      the first field, a large and park-like area, out of which, within
      brick walls, the vegetable garden had been carved. Old Jolyon
      avoided this, which did not suit his mood, and made down the hill
      towards the pond. Balthasar, who knew a water-rat or two,
      gambolled in front, at the gait which marks an oldish dog who
      takes the same walk every day. Arrived at the edge, old Jolyon
      stood, noting another water-lily opened since yesterday; he would
      show it to Holly to-morrow, when “his little sweet” had got over
      the upset which had followed on her eating a tomato at lunch—her
      little arrangements were very delicate. Now that Jolly had gone
      to school—his first term—Holly was with him nearly all day long,
      and he missed her badly. He felt that pain too, which often
      bothered him now, a little dragging at his left side. He looked
      back up the hill. Really, poor young Bosinney had made an
      uncommonly good job of the house; he would have done very well
      for himself if he had lived! And where was he now? Perhaps, still
      haunting this, the site of his last work, of his tragic love
      affair. Or was Philip Bosinney’s spirit diffused in the general?
      Who could say? That dog was getting his legs muddy! And he moved
      towards the coppice. There had been the most delightful lot of
      bluebells, and he knew where some still lingered like little
      patches of sky fallen in between the trees, away out of the sun.
      He passed the cow-houses and the hen-houses there installed, and
      pursued a path into the thick of the saplings, making for one of
      the bluebell plots. Balthasar, preceding him once more, uttered a
      low growl. Old Jolyon stirred him with his foot, but the dog
      remained motionless, just where there was no room to pass, and
      the hair rose slowly along the centre of his woolly back. Whether
      from the growl and the look of the dog’s stivered hair, or from
      the sensation which a man feels in a wood, old Jolyon also felt
      something move along his spine. And then the path turned, and
      there was an old mossy log, and on it a woman sitting. Her face
      was turned away, and he had just time to think: “She’s
      trespassing—I must have a board put up!” before she turned.
      Powers above! The face he had seen at the opera—the very woman he
      had just been thinking of! In that confused moment he saw things
      blurred, as if a spirit—queer effect—the slant of sunlight
      perhaps on her violet-grey frock! And then she rose and stood
      smiling, her head a little to one side. Old Jolyon thought: “How
      pretty she is!” She did not speak, neither did he; and he
      realized why with a certain admiration. She was here no doubt
      because of some memory, and did not mean to try and get out of it
      by vulgar explanation.

      “Don’t let that dog touch your frock,” he said; “he’s got wet
      feet. Come here, you!”

      But the dog Balthasar went on towards the visitor, who put her
      hand down and stroked his head. Old Jolyon said quickly:

      “I saw you at the opera the other night; you didn’t notice me.”

      “Oh, yes! I did.”

      He felt a subtle flattery in that, as though she had added: “Do
      you think one could miss seeing you?”

      “They’re all in Spain,” he remarked abruptly. “I’m alone; I drove
      up for the opera. The Ravogli’s good. Have you seen the
      cow-houses?”

      In a situation so charged with mystery and something very like
      emotion he moved instinctively towards that bit of property, and
      she moved beside him. Her figure swayed faintly, like the best
      kind of French figures; her dress, too, was a sort of French
      grey. He noticed two or three silver threads in her
      amber-coloured hair, strange hair with those dark eyes of hers,
      and that creamy-pale face. A sudden sidelong look from the
      velvety brown eyes disturbed him. It seemed to come from deep and
      far, from another world almost, or at all events from some one
      not living very much in this. And he said mechanically:

      “Where are you living now?”

      “I have a little flat in Chelsea.”

      He did not want to hear what she was doing, did not want to hear
      anything; but the perverse word came out:

      “Alone?”

      She nodded. It was a relief to know that. And it came into his
      mind that, but for a twist of fate, she would have been mistress
      of this coppice, showing these cow-houses to him, a visitor.

      “All Alderneys,” he muttered; “they give the best milk. This
      one’s a pretty creature. Woa, Myrtle!”

      The fawn-coloured cow, with eyes as soft and brown as Irene’s
      own, was standing absolutely still, not having long been milked.
      She looked round at them out of the corner of those lustrous,
      mild, cynical eyes, and from her grey lips a little dribble of
      saliva threaded its way towards the straw. The scent of hay and
      vanilla and ammonia rose in the dim light of the cool cow-house;
      and old Jolyon said:

      “You must come up and have some dinner with me. I’ll send you
      home in the carriage.”

      He perceived a struggle going on within her; natural, no doubt,
      with her memories. But he wanted her company; a pretty face, a
      charming figure, beauty! He had been alone all the afternoon.
      Perhaps his eyes were wistful, for she answered: “Thank you,
      Uncle Jolyon. I should like to.”

      He rubbed his hands, and said:

      “Capital! Let’s go up, then!” And, preceded by the dog Balthasar,
      they ascended through the field. The sun was almost level in
      their faces now, and he could see, not only those silver threads,
      but little lines, just deep enough to stamp her beauty with a
      coin-like fineness—the special look of life unshared with others.
      “I’ll take her in by the terrace,” he thought: “I won’t make a
      common visitor of her.”

      “What do you do all day?” he said.

      “Teach music; I have another interest, too.”

      “Work!” said old Jolyon, picking up the doll from off the swing,
      and smoothing its black petticoat. “Nothing like it, is there? I
      don’t do any now. I’m getting on. What interest is that?”

      “Trying to help women who’ve come to grief.” Old Jolyon did not
      quite understand. “To grief?” he repeated; then realised with a
      shock that she meant exactly what he would have meant himself if
      he had used that expression. Assisting the Magdalenes of London!
      What a weird and terrifying interest! And, curiosity overcoming
      his natural shrinking, he asked:

      “Why? What do you do for them?”

      “Not much. I’ve no money to spare. I can only give sympathy and
      food sometimes.”

      Involuntarily old Jolyon’s hand sought his purse. He said
      hastily: “How d’you get hold of them?”

      “I go to a hospital.”

      “A hospital! Phew!”

      “What hurts me most is that once they nearly all had some sort of
      beauty.”

      Old Jolyon straightened the doll. “Beauty!” he ejaculated: “Ha!
      Yes! A sad business!” and he moved towards the house. Through a
      French window, under sun-blinds not yet drawn up, he preceded her
      into the room where he was wont to study _The Times_ and the
      sheets of an agricultural magazine, with huge illustrations of
      mangold wurzels, and the like, which provided Holly with material
      for her paint brush.

      “Dinner’s in half an hour. You’d like to wash your hands! I’ll
      take you to June’s room.”

      He saw her looking round eagerly; what changes since she had last
      visited this house with her husband, or her lover, or both
      perhaps—he did not know, could not say! All that was dark, and he
      wished to leave it so. But what changes! And in the hall he said:

      “My boy Jo’s a painter, you know. He’s got a lot of taste. It
      isn’t mine, of course, but I’ve let him have his way.”

      She was standing very still, her eyes roaming through the hall
      and music room, as it now was—all thrown into one, under the
      great skylight. Old Jolyon had an odd impression of her. Was she
      trying to conjure somebody from the shades of that space where
      the colouring was all pearl-grey and silver? He would have had
      gold himself; more lively and solid. But Jo had French tastes,
      and it had come out shadowy like that, with an effect as of the
      fume of cigarettes the chap was always smoking, broken here and
      there by a little blaze of blue or crimson colour. It was not
      _his_ dream! Mentally he had hung this space with those
      gold-framed masterpieces of still and stiller life which he had
      bought in days when quantity was precious. And now where were
      they? Sold for a song! That something which made him, alone among
      Forsytes, move with the times had warned him against the struggle
      to retain them. But in his study he still had “Dutch Fishing
      Boats at Sunset.”

      He began to mount the stairs with her, slowly, for he felt his
      side.

      “These are the bathrooms,” he said, “and other arrangements. I’ve
      had them tiled. The nurseries are along there. And this is Jo’s
      and his wife’s. They all communicate. But you remember, I
      expect.”

      Irene nodded. They passed on, up the gallery and entered a large
      room with a small bed, and several windows.

      “This is mine,” he said. The walls were covered with the
      photographs of children and watercolour sketches, and he added
      doubtfully:

      “These are Jo’s. The view’s first-rate. You can see the Grand
      Stand at Epsom in clear weather.”

      The sun was down now, behind the house, and over the “prospect” a
      luminous haze had settled, emanation of the long and prosperous
      day. Few houses showed, but fields and trees faintly glistened,
      away to a loom of downs.

      “The country’s changing,” he said abruptly, “but there it’ll be
      when we’re all gone. Look at those thrushes—the birds are sweet
      here in the mornings. I’m glad to have washed my hands of
      London.”

      Her face was close to the window pane, and he was struck by its
      mournful look. “Wish I could make her look happy!” he thought. “A
      pretty face, but sad!” And taking up his can of hot water he went
      out into the gallery.

      “This is June’s room,” he said, opening the next door and putting
      the can down; “I think you’ll find everything.” And closing the
      door behind her he went back to his own room. Brushing his hair
      with his great ebony brushes, and dabbing his forehead with eau
      de Cologne, he mused. She had come so strangely—a sort of
      visitation; mysterious, even romantic, as if his desire for
      company, for beauty, had been fulfilled by whatever it was which
      fulfilled that sort of thing. And before the mirror he
      straightened his still upright figure, passed the brushes over
      his great white moustache, touched up his eyebrows with eau de
      Cologne, and rang the bell.

      “I forgot to let them know that I have a lady to dinner with me.
      Let cook do something extra, and tell Beacon to have the landau
      and pair at half-past ten to drive her back to Town to-night. Is
      Miss Holly asleep?”

      The maid thought not. And old Jolyon, passing down the gallery,
      stole on tiptoe towards the nursery, and opened the door whose
      hinges he kept specially oiled that he might slip in and out in
      the evenings without being heard.

      But Holly _was_ asleep, and lay like a miniature Madonna, of that
      type which the old painters could not tell from Venus, when they
      had completed her. Her long dark lashes clung to her cheeks; on
      her face was perfect peace—her little arrangements were evidently
      all right again. And old Jolyon, in the twilight of the room,
      stood adoring her! It was so charming, solemn, and loving—that
      little face. He had more than his share of the blessed capacity
      of living again in the young. They were to him his future
      life—all of a future life that his fundamental pagan sanity
      perhaps admitted. There she was with everything before her, and
      his blood—some of it—in her tiny veins. There she was, his little
      companion, to be made as happy as ever he could make her, so that
      she knew nothing but love. His heart swelled, and he went out,
      stilling the sound of his patent-leather boots. In the corridor
      an eccentric notion attacked him: To think that children should
      come to that which Irene had told him she was helping! Women who
      were all, once, little things like this one sleeping there! “I
      must give her a cheque!” he mused; “Can’t bear to think of them!”
      They had never borne reflecting on, those poor outcasts; wounding
      too deeply the core of true refinement hidden under layers of
      conformity to the sense of property—wounding too grievously the
      deepest thing in him—a love of beauty which could give him, even
      now, a flutter of the heart, thinking of his evening in the
      society of a pretty woman. And he went downstairs, through the
      swinging doors, to the back regions. There, in the wine-cellar,
      was a hock worth at least two pounds a bottle, a Steinberg
      Cabinet, better than any Johannisberg that ever went down throat;
      a wine of perfect bouquet, sweet as a nectarine—nectar indeed! He
      got a bottle out, handling it like a baby, and holding it level
      to the light, to look. Enshrined in its coat of dust, that mellow
      coloured, slender-necked bottle gave him deep pleasure. Three
      years to settle down again since the move from Town—ought to be
      in prime condition! Thirty-five years ago he had bought it—thank
      God he had kept his palate, and earned the right to drink it. She
      would appreciate this; not a spice of acidity in a dozen. He
      wiped the bottle, drew the cork with his own hands, put his nose
      down, inhaled its perfume, and went back to the music room.

      Irene was standing by the piano; she had taken off her hat and a
      lace scarf she had been wearing, so that her gold-coloured hair
      was visible, and the pallor of her neck. In her grey frock she
      made a pretty picture for old Jolyon, against the rosewood of the
      piano.

      He gave her his arm, and solemnly they went. The room, which had
      been designed to enable twenty-four people to dine in comfort,
      held now but a little round table. In his present solitude the
      big dining-table oppressed old Jolyon; he had caused it to be
      removed till his son came back. Here in the company of two really
      good copies of Raphael Madonnas he was wont to dine alone. It was
      the only disconsolate hour of his day, this summer weather. He
      had never been a large eater, like that great chap Swithin, or
      Sylvanus Heythorp, or Anthony Thornworthy, those cronies of past
      times; and to dine alone, overlooked by the Madonnas, was to him
      but a sorrowful occupation, which he got through quickly, that he
      might come to the more spiritual enjoyment of his coffee and
      cigar. But this evening was a different matter! His eyes twinkled
      at her across the little table and he spoke of Italy and
      Switzerland, telling her stories of his travels there, and other
      experiences which he could no longer recount to his son and
      grand-daughter because they knew them. This fresh audience was
      precious to him; he had never become one of those old men who
      ramble round and round the fields of reminiscence. Himself
      quickly fatigued by the insensitive, he instinctively avoided
      fatiguing others, and his natural flirtatiousness towards beauty
      guarded him specially in his relations with a woman. He would
      have liked to draw her out, but though she murmured and smiled
      and seemed to be enjoying what he told her, he remained conscious
      of that mysterious remoteness which constituted half her
      fascination. He could not bear women who threw their shoulders
      and eyes at you, and chattered away; or hard-mouthed women who
      laid down the law and knew more than you did. There was only one
      quality in a woman that appealed to him—charm; and the quieter it
      was, the more he liked it. And this one had charm, shadowy as
      afternoon sunlight on those Italian hills and valleys he had
      loved. The feeling, too, that she was, as it were, apart,
      cloistered, made her seem nearer to himself, a strangely
      desirable companion. When a man is very old and quite out of the
      running, he loves to feel secure from the rivalries of youth, for
      he would still be first in the heart of beauty. And he drank his
      hock, and watched her lips, and felt nearly young. But the dog
      Balthasar lay watching her lips too, and despising in his heart
      the interruptions of their talk, and the tilting of those
      greenish glasses full of a golden fluid which was distasteful to
      him.

      The light was just failing when they went back into the
      music-room. And, cigar in mouth, old Jolyon said:

      “Play me some Chopin.”

      By the cigars they smoke, and the composers they love, ye shall
      know the texture of men’s souls. Old Jolyon could not bear a
      strong cigar or Wagner’s music. He loved Beethoven and Mozart,
      Handel and Gluck, and Schumann, and, for some occult reason, the
      operas of Meyerbeer; but of late years he had been seduced by
      Chopin, just as in painting he had succumbed to Botticelli. In
      yielding to these tastes he had been conscious of divergence from
      the standard of the Golden Age. Their poetry was not that of
      Milton and Byron and Tennyson; of Raphael and Titian; Mozart and
      Beethoven. It was, as it were, behind a veil; their poetry hit no
      one in the face, but slipped its fingers under the ribs and
      turned and twisted, and melted up the heart. And, never certain
      that this was healthy, he did not care a rap so long as he could
      see the pictures of the one or hear the music of the other.

      Irene sat down at the piano under the electric lamp festooned
      with pearl-grey, and old Jolyon, in an armchair, whence he could
      see her, crossed his legs and drew slowly at his cigar. She sat a
      few moments with her hands on the keys, evidently searching her
      mind for what to give him. Then she began and within old Jolyon
      there arose a sorrowful pleasure, not quite like anything else in
      the world. He fell slowly into a trance, interrupted only by the
      movements of taking the cigar out of his mouth at long intervals,
      and replacing it. She was there, and the hock within him, and the
      scent of tobacco; but there, too, was a world of sunshine
      lingering into moonlight, and pools with storks upon them, and
      bluish trees above, glowing with blurs of wine-red roses, and
      fields of lavender where milk-white cows were grazing, and a
      woman all shadowy, with dark eyes and a white neck, smiled,
      holding out her arms; and through air which was like music a star
      dropped and was caught on a cow’s horn. He opened his eyes.
      Beautiful piece; she played well—the touch of an angel! And he
      closed them again. He felt miraculously sad and happy, as one
      does, standing under a lime-tree in full honey flower. Not live
      one’s own life again, but just stand there and bask in the smile
      of a woman’s eyes, and enjoy the bouquet! And he jerked his hand;
      the dog Balthasar had reached up and licked it.

      “Beautiful!” He said: “Go on—more Chopin!”

      She began to play again. This time the resemblance between her
      and “Chopin” struck him. The swaying he had noticed in her walk
      was in her playing too, and the Nocturne she had chosen and the
      soft darkness of her eyes, the light on her hair, as of moonlight
      from a golden moon. Seductive, yes; but nothing of Delilah in her
      or in that music. A long blue spiral from his cigar ascended and
      dispersed. “So we go out!” he thought. “No more beauty! Nothing?”

      Again Irene stopped.

      “Would you like some Gluck? He used to write his music in a
      sunlit garden, with a bottle of Rhine wine beside him.”

      “Ah! yes. Let’s have ‘Orfeo.’” Round about him now were fields of
      gold and silver flowers, white forms swaying in the sunlight,
      bright birds flying to and fro. All was summer. Lingering waves
      of sweetness and regret flooded his soul. Some cigar ash dropped,
      and taking out a silk handkerchief to brush it off, he inhaled a
      mingled scent as of snuff and eau de Cologne. “Ah!” he thought,
      “Indian summer—that’s all!” and he said: “You haven’t played me
      ‘Che faro.’”

      She did not answer; did not move. He was conscious of
      something—some strange upset. Suddenly he saw her rise and turn
      away, and a pang of remorse shot through him. What a clumsy chap!
      Like Orpheus, she of course—she too was looking for her lost one
      in the hall of memory! And disturbed to the heart, he got up from
      his chair. She had gone to the great window at the far end.
      Gingerly he followed. Her hands were folded over her breast; he
      could just see her cheek, very white. And, quite emotionalized,
      he said:

      “There, there, my love!” The words had escaped him mechanically,
      for they were those he used to Holly when she had a pain, but
      their effect was instantaneously distressing. She raised her
      arms, covered her face with them, and wept.

      Old Jolyon stood gazing at her with eyes very deep from age. The
      passionate shame she seemed feeling at her abandonment, so unlike
      the control and quietude of her whole presence was as if she had
      never before broken down in the presence of another being.

      “There, there—there, there!” he murmured, and putting his hand
      out reverently, touched her. She turned, and leaned the arms
      which covered her face against him. Old Jolyon stood very still,
      keeping one thin hand on her shoulder. Let her cry her heart
      out—it would do her good.

      And the dog Balthasar, puzzled, sat down on his stern to examine
      them.

      The window was still open, the curtains had not been drawn, the
      last of daylight from without mingled with faint intrusion from
      the lamp within; there was a scent of new-mown grass. With the
      wisdom of a long life old Jolyon did not speak. Even grief sobbed
      itself out in time; only Time was good for sorrow—Time who saw
      the passing of each mood, each emotion in turn; Time the
      layer-to-rest. There came into his mind the words: “As panteth
      the hart after cooling streams”—but they were of no use to him.
      Then, conscious of a scent of violets, he knew she was drying her
      eyes. He put his chin forward, pressed his moustache against her
      forehead, and felt her shake with a quivering of her whole body,
      as of a tree which shakes itself free of raindrops. She put his
      hand to her lips, as if saying: “All over now! Forgive me!”

      The kiss filled him with a strange comfort; he led her back to
      where she had been so upset. And the dog Balthasar, following,
      laid the bone of one of the cutlets they had eaten at their feet.

      Anxious to obliterate the memory of that emotion, he could think
      of nothing better than china; and moving with her slowly from
      cabinet to cabinet, he kept taking up bits of Dresden and
      Lowestoft and Chelsea, turning them round and round with his
      thin, veined hands, whose skin, faintly freckled, had such an
      aged look.

      “I bought this at Jobson’s,” he would say; “cost me thirty
      pounds. It’s very old. That dog leaves his bones all over the
      place. This old ‘ship-bowl’ I picked up at the sale when that
      precious rip, the Marquis, came to grief. But you don’t remember.
      Here’s a nice piece of Chelsea. Now, what would you say _this_
      was?” And he was comforted, feeling that, with her taste, she was
      taking a real interest in these things; for, after all, nothing
      better composes the nerves than a doubtful piece of china.

      When the crunch of the carriage wheels was heard at last, he
      said:

      “You must come again; you must come to lunch, then I can show you
      these by daylight, and my little sweet—she’s a dear little thing.
      This dog seems to have taken a fancy to you.”

      For Balthasar, feeling that she was about to leave, was rubbing
      his side against her leg. Going out under the porch with her, he
      said:

      “He’ll get you up in an hour and a quarter. Take this for your
      _protégées_,” and he slipped a cheque for fifty pounds into her
      hand. He saw her brightened eyes, and heard her murmur: “Oh!
      Uncle Jolyon!” and a real throb of pleasure went through him.
      That meant one or two poor creatures helped a little, and it
      meant that she would come again. He put his hand in at the window
      and grasped hers once more. The carriage rolled away. He stood
      looking at the moon and the shadows of the trees, and thought: “A
      sweet night! She...!”




      II


      Two days of rain, and summer set in bland and sunny. Old Jolyon
      walked and talked with Holly. At first he felt taller and full of
      a new vigour; then he felt restless. Almost every afternoon they
      would enter the coppice, and walk as far as the log. “Well, she’s
      not there!” he would think, “of course not!” And he would feel a
      little shorter, and drag his feet walking up the hill home, with
      his hand clapped to his left side. Now and then the thought would
      move in him: “Did she come—or did I dream it?” and he would stare
      at space, while the dog Balthasar stared at him. Of course she
      would not come again! He opened the letters from Spain with less
      excitement. They were not returning till July; he felt, oddly,
      that he could bear it. Every day at dinner he screwed up his eyes
      and looked at where she had sat. She was not there, so he
      unscrewed his eyes again.

      On the seventh afternoon he thought: “I must go up and get some
      boots.” He ordered Beacon, and set out. Passing from Putney
      towards Hyde Park he reflected: “I might as well go to Chelsea
      and see her.” And he called out: “Just drive me to where you took
      that lady the other night.” The coachman turned his broad red
      face, and his juicy lips answered: “The lady in grey, sir?”

      “Yes, the lady in grey.” What other ladies were there! Stodgy
      chap!

      The carriage stopped before a small three-storied block of flats,
      standing a little back from the river. With a practised eye old
      Jolyon saw that they were cheap. “I should think about sixty
      pound a year,” he mused; and entering, he looked at the
      name-board. The name “Forsyte” was not on it, but against “First
      Floor, Flat C” were the words: “Mrs. Irene Heron.” Ah! She had
      taken her maiden name again! And somehow this pleased him. He
      went upstairs slowly, feeling his side a little. He stood a
      moment, before ringing, to lose the feeling of drag and
      fluttering there. She would not be in! And then—Boots! The
      thought was black. What did he want with boots at his age? He
      could not wear out all those he had.

      “Your mistress at home?”

      “Yes, sir.”

      “Say Mr. Jolyon Forsyte.”

      “Yes, sir, will you come this way?”

      Old Jolyon followed a very little maid—not more than sixteen one
      would say—into a very small drawing-room where the sun-blinds
      were drawn. It held a cottage piano and little else save a vague
      fragrance and good taste. He stood in the middle, with his top
      hat in his hand, and thought: “I expect she’s very badly off!”
      There was a mirror above the fireplace, and he saw himself
      reflected. An old-looking chap! He heard a rustle, and turned
      round. She was so close that his moustache almost brushed her
      forehead, just under her hair.

      “I was driving up,” he said. “Thought I’d look in on you, and ask
      you how you got up the other night.”

      And, seeing her smile, he felt suddenly relieved. She was really
      glad to see him, perhaps.

      “Would you like to put on your hat and come for a drive in the
      Park?”

      But while she was gone to put her hat on, he frowned. The Park!
      James and Emily! Mrs. Nicholas, or some other member of his
      precious family would be there very likely, prancing up and down.
      And they would go and wag their tongues about having seen him
      with her, afterwards. Better not! He did not wish to revive the
      echoes of the past on Forsyte ’Change. He removed a white hair
      from the lapel of his closely-buttoned-up frock coat, and passed
      his hand over his cheeks, moustache, and square chin. It felt
      very hollow there under the cheekbones. He had not been eating
      much lately—he had better get that little whippersnapper who
      attended Holly to give him a tonic. But she had come back and
      when they were in the carriage, he said:

      “Suppose we go and sit in Kensington Gardens instead?” and added
      with a twinkle: “No prancing up and down there,” as if she had
      been in the secret of his thoughts.

      Leaving the carriage, they entered those select precincts, and
      strolled towards the water.

      “You’ve gone back to your maiden name, I see,” he said: “I’m not
      sorry.”

      She slipped her hand under his arm: “Has June forgiven me, Uncle
      Jolyon?”

      He answered gently: “Yes—yes; of course, why not?”

      “And have you?”

      “I? I forgave you as soon as I saw how the land really lay.” And
      perhaps he had; his instinct had always been to forgive the
      beautiful.

      She drew a deep breath. “I never regretted—I couldn’t. Did you
      ever love very deeply, Uncle Jolyon?”

      At that strange question old Jolyon stared before him. Had he? He
      did not seem to remember that he ever had. But he did not like to
      say this to the young woman whose hand was touching his arm,
      whose life was suspended, as it were, by memory of a tragic love.
      And he thought: “If I had met you when I was young I—I might have
      made a fool of myself, perhaps.” And a longing to escape in
      generalities beset him.

      “Love’s a queer thing,” he said, “fatal thing often. It was the
      Greeks—wasn’t it?—made love into a goddess; they were right, I
      dare say, but then they lived in the Golden Age.”

      “Phil adored them.”

      Phil! The word jarred him, for suddenly—with his power to see all
      round a thing, he perceived why she was putting up with him like
      this. She wanted to talk about her lover! Well! If it was any
      pleasure to her! And he said: “Ah! There was a bit of the
      sculptor in him, I fancy.”

      “Yes. He loved balance and symmetry; he loved the whole-hearted
      way the Greeks gave themselves to art.”

      Balance! The chap had no balance at all, if he remembered; as for
      symmetry—clean-built enough he was, no doubt; but those queer
      eyes of his, and high cheek-bones—Symmetry?

      “You’re of the Golden Age, too, Uncle Jolyon.”

      Old Jolyon looked round at her. Was she chaffing him? No, her
      eyes were soft as velvet. Was she flattering him? But if so, why?
      There was nothing to be had out of an old chap like him.

      “Phil thought so. He used to say: ‘But I can never tell him that
      I admire him.’”

      Ah! There it was again. Her dead lover; her desire to talk of
      him! And he pressed her arm, half resentful of those memories,
      half grateful, as if he recognised what a link they were between
      herself and him.

      “He was a very talented young fellow,” he murmured. “It’s hot; I
      feel the heat nowadays. Let’s sit down.”

      They took two chairs beneath a chestnut tree whose broad leaves
      covered them from the peaceful glory of the afternoon. A pleasure
      to sit there and watch her, and feel that she liked to be with
      him. And the wish to increase that liking, if he could, made him
      go on:

      “I expect he showed you a side of him I never saw. He’d be at his
      best with you. His ideas of art were a little new—to me”—he had
      stiffed the word ‘fangled.’

      “Yes: but he used to say you had a real sense of beauty.” Old
      Jolyon thought: “The devil he did!” but answered with a twinkle:
      “Well, I have, or I shouldn’t be sitting here with you.” She was
      fascinating when she smiled with her eyes, like that!

      “He thought you had one of those hearts that never grow old. Phil
