me. But instead, Coin personally hands me the supplies,
and everyone waits in silence while I sit at the table and
scrawl out my list. Buttercup. Hunting. Peeta's immunity.
Announced in public.
This is it. Probably my only chance to bargain. Think.
What else do you want? I feel him, standing at my shoulder.
Gale, I add to the list. I don't think I can do this without him.
The headache's coming on and my thoughts begin to
tangle. I shut my eyes and start to recite silently.
My name is Katniss Everdeen. I am seventeen years
old. My home is District 12. I was in the Hunger Games. I
escaped. The Capitol hates me. Peeta was taken
prisoner. He is alive. He is a traitor but alive. I have to
keep him alive....
The list. It still seems too small. I should try to think
bigger, beyond our current situation where I am of the
utmost importance, to the future where I may be worth
nothing. Shouldn't I be asking for more? For my family? For
the remainder of my people? My skin itches with the ashes
of the dead. I feel the sickening impact of the skull against
my shoe. The scent of blood and roses stings my nose.
The pencil moves across the page on its own. I open
my eyes and see the wobbly letters. I KILL SNOW. If he's
captured, I want the privilege.
Plutarch gives a discreet cough. "About done there?" I
glance up and notice the clock. I've been sitting here for
twenty minutes. Finnick isn't the only one with attention
problems.
"Yeah," I say. My voice sounds hoarse, so I clear my
throat. "Yeah, so this is the deal. I'll be your Mockingjay."
I wait so they can make their sounds of relief,
congratulate, slap one another on the back. Coin stays as
impassive as ever, watching me, unimpressed.
"But I have some conditions." I smooth out the list and
begin. "My family gets to keep our cat." My tiniest request
sets off an argument. The Capitol rebels see this as a
nonissue--of course, I can keep my pet--while those from
13 spell out what extreme difficulties this presents. Finally
it's worked out that we'll be moved to the top level, which
has the luxury of an eight-inch window aboveground.
Buttercup may come and go to do his business. He will be
expected to feed himself. If he misses curfew, he will be
locked out. If he causes any security problems, he'll be shot
immediately.
That sounds okay. Not so different from how he's been
living since we left. Except for the shooting part. If he looks
too thin, I can slip him a few entrails, provided my next
request is allowed.
"I want to hunt. With Gale. Out in the woods," I say. This
gives everyone pause.
"We won't go far. We'll use our own bows. You can
have the meat for the kitchen," adds Gale.
I hurry on before they can say no. "It's just...I can't
breathe shut up here like a...I would get better, faster, if...I
could hunt."
Plutarch begins to explain the drawbacks here--the
dangers, the extra security, the risk of injury--but Coin cuts
him off. "No. Let them. Give them two hours a day,
deducted from their training time. A quarter-mile radius.
With communication units and tracker anklets. What's
next?"
I skim my list. "Gale. I'll need him with me to do this."
"With you how? Off camera? By your side at all times?
Do you want him presented as your new lover?" Coin asks.
She hasn't said this with any particular malice--quite
the contrary, her words are very matter-of-fact. But my
mouth still drops open in shock. "What?"
"I think we should continue the current romance. A
quick defection from Peeta could cause the audience to
lose sympathy for her," says Plutarch. "Especially since
they think she's pregnant with his child."
"Agreed. So, on-screen, Gale can simply be portrayed
as a fellow rebel. Is that all right?" says Coin. I just stare at
her. She repeats herself impatiently. "For Gale. Will that be
sufficient?"
"We can always work him in as your cousin," says
Fulvia.
"We're not cousins," Gale and I say together.
"Right, but we should probably keep that up for
appearances' sake on camera," says Plutarch. "Off
camera, he's all yours. Anything else?"
I'm rattled by the turn in the conversation. The
implications that I could so readily dispose of Peeta, that
I'm in love with Gale, that the whole thing has been an act.
My cheeks begin to burn. The very notion that I'm devoting
any thought to who I want presented as my lover, given our
current circumstances, is demeaning. I let my anger propel
me into my greatest demand. "When the war is over, if
we've won, Peeta will be pardoned."
Dead silence. I feel Gale's body tense. I guess I should
have told him before, but I wasn't sure how he'd respond.
Not when it involved Peeta.
"No form of punishment will be inflicted," I continue. A
new thought occurs to me. "The same goes for the other
captured tributes, Johanna and Enobaria." Frankly, I don't
care about Enobaria, the vicious District 2 tribute. In fact, I
dislike her, but it seems wrong to leave her out.
"No," says Coin flatly.
"Yes," I shoot back. "It's not their fault you abandoned
them in the arena. Who knows what the Capitol's doing to
them?"
"They'll be tried with other war criminals and treated as
the tribunal sees fit," she says.
"They'll be granted immunity!" I feel myself rising from
my chair, my voice full and resonant. "You will personally
pledge this in front of the entire population of District
Thirteen and the remainder of Twelve. Soon. Today. It will
be recorded for future generations. You will hold yourself
and your government responsible for their safety, or you'll
find yourself another Mockingjay!"
My words hang in the air for a long moment.
"That's her!" I hear Fulvia hiss to Plutarch. "Right there.
With the costume, gunfire in the background, just a hint of
smoke."
"Yes, that's what we want," says Plutarch under his
breath.
I want to glare at them, but I feel it would be a mistake
to turn my attention from Coin. I can see her tallying the cost
of my ultimatum, weighing it against my possible worth.
"What do you say, President?" asks Plutarch. "You
could issue an official pardon, given the circumstances.
The boy...he's not even of age."
"All right," Coin says finally. "But you'd better perform."
"I'll perform when you've made the announcement," I
say.
"Call a national security assembly during Reflection
today," she orders. "I'll make the announcement then. Is
there anything left on your list, Katniss?"
My paper's crumpled into a ball in my right fist. I flatten
the sheet against the table and read the rickety letters.
"Just one more thing. I kill Snow."
For the first time ever, I see the hint of a smile on the
president's lips. "When the time comes, I'll flip you for it."
Maybe she's right. I certainly don't have the sole claim
against Snow's life. And I think I can count on her getting the
job done. "Fair enough."
Coin's eyes have flickered to her arm, the clock. She,
too, has a schedule to adhere to. "I'll leave her in your
hands, then, Plutarch." She exits the room, followed by her
team, leaving only Plutarch, Fulvia, Gale, and myself.
"Excellent. Excellent." Plutarch sinks down, elbows on
the table, rubbing his eyes. "You know what I miss? More
than anything? Coffee. I ask you, would it be so unthinkable
to have something to wash down the gruel and turnips?"
"We didn't think it would be quite so rigid here," Fulvia
explains to us as she massages Plutarch's shoulders. "Not
in the higher ranks."
"Or at least there'd be the option of a little side action,"
says Plutarch. "I mean, even Twelve had a black market,
right?"
"Yeah, the Hob," says Gale. "It's where we traded."
"There, you see? And look how moral you two are!
Virtually incorruptible." Plutarch sighs. "Oh, well, wars don't
last forever. So, glad to have you on the team." He reaches
a hand out to the side, where Fulvia is already extending a
large sketchbook bound in black leather. "You know in
general what we're asking of you, Katniss. I'm aware you
have mixed feelings about participating. I hope this will
help."Plutarch slides the sketchbook across to me. For a
moment, I look at it suspiciously. Then curiosity gets the
better of me. I open the cover to find a picture of myself,
standing straight and strong, in a black uniform. Only one
person could have designed the outfit, at first glance utterly
utilitarian, at second a work of art. The swoop of the helmet,
the curve to the breastplate, the slight fullness of the
sleeves that allows the white folds under the arms to show.
In his hands, I am again a mockingjay.
"Cinna," I whisper.
"Yes. He made me promise not to show you this book
until you'd decided to be the Mockingjay on your own.
Believe me, I was very tempted," says Plutarch. "Go on.
Flip through."
I turn the pages slowly, seeing each detail of the
uniform. The carefully tailored layers of body armor, the
hidden weapons in the boots and belt, the special
reinforcements over my heart. On the final page, under a
sketch of my mockingjay pin, Cinna's written, I'm still
betting on you.
"When did he..." My voice fails me.
"Let's see. Well, after the Quarter Quell announcement.
A few weeks before the Games maybe? There are not only
the sketches. We have your uniforms. Oh, and Beetee's got
something really special waiting for you down in the armory.
I won't spoil it by hinting," says Plutarch.
"You're going to be the best-dressed rebel in history,"
says Gale with a smile. Suddenly, I realize he's been
holding out on me. Like Cinna, he's wanted me to make
this decision all along.
"Our plan is to launch an Airtime Assault," says
Plutarch. "To make a series of what we call propos--which
is short for 'propaganda spots'--featuring you, and
broadcast them to the entire population of Panem."
"How? The Capitol has sole control of the broadcasts,"
says Gale.
"But we have Beetee. About ten years ago, he
essentially redesigned the underground network that
transmits all the programming. He thinks there's a
reasonable chance it can be done. Of course, we'll need
something to air. So, Katniss, the studio awaits your
pleasure." Plutarch turns to his assistant. "Fulvia?"
"Plutarch and I have been talking about how on earth
we can pull this off. We think that it might be best to build
you, our rebel leader, from the outside...in. That is to say,
let's find the most stunning Mockingjay look possible, and
then work your personality up to deserving it!" she says
brightly.
"You already have her uniform," says Gale.
"Yes, but is she scarred and bloody? Is she glowing
with the fire of rebellion? Just how grimy can we make her
without disgusting people? At any rate, she has to be
something. I mean, obviously this"--Fulvia moves in on me
quickly, framing my face with her hands--"won't cut it." I jerk
my head back reflexively but she's already busy gathering
her things. "So, with that in mind, we have another little
surprise for you. Come, come."
Fulvia gives us a wave, and Gale and I follow her and
Plutarch out into the hall.
"So well intended, and yet so insulting," Gale whispers
in my ear.
"Welcome to the Capitol," I mouth back. But Fulvia's
words have no effect on me. I wrap my arms tightly around
the sketchbook and allow myself to feel hopeful. This must
be the right decision. If Cinna wanted it.
We board an elevator, and Plutarch checks his notes.
"Let's see. It's Compartment Three-Nine-Oh-Eight." He
presses a button marked 39, but nothing happens.
"You must have to key it," says Fulvia.
Plutarch pulls a key attached to a thin chain from under
his shirt and inserts it into a slot I hadn't noticed before. The
doors slide shut. "Ah, there we are."
The elevator descends ten, twenty, thirty-plus levels,
farther down than I even knew District 13 went. It opens on
a wide white corridor lined with red doors, which look
almost decorative compared to the gray ones on the upper
floors. Each is plainly marked with a number. 3901, 3902,
3903...
As we step out, I glance behind me to watch the
elevator close and see a metallic grate slide into place over
the regular doors. When I turn, a guard has materialized
from one of the rooms at the far end of the corridor. A door
swings silently shut behind him as he strides toward us.
Plutarch moves to meet him, raising a hand in
greeting, and the rest of us follow behind him. Something
feels very wrong down here. It's more than the reinforced
elevator, or the claustrophobia of being so far underground,
or the caustic smell of antiseptic. One look at Gale's face
and I can tell he senses it as well.
"Good morning, we were just looking for--" Plutarch
begins.
"You have the wrong floor," says the guard abruptly.
"Really?" Plutarch double-checks his notes. "I've got
Three-Nine-Oh-Eight written right here. I wonder if you could
just give a call up to--"
"I'm afraid I have to ask you to leave now. Assignment
discrepancies can be addressed at the Head Office," says
the guard.
It's right ahead of us. Compartment 3908. Just a few
steps away. The door--in fact, all the doors--seem
incomplete. No knobs. They must swing free on hinges like
the one the guard appeared through.
"Where is that again?" asks Fulvia.
"You'll find the Head Office on Level Seven," says the
guard, extending his arms to corral us back to the elevator.
From behind door 3908 comes a sound. Just a tiny
whimper. Like something a cowed dog might make to
avoid being struck, only all too human and familiar. My eyes
meet Gale's for just a moment, but it's long enough for two
people who operate the way we do. I let Cinna's
sketchbook fall at the guard's feet with a loud bang. A
second after he leans down to retrieve it, Gale leans down,
too, intentionally bumping heads. "Oh, I'm sorry," he says
with a light laugh, catching the guard's arms as if to steady
himself, turning him slightly away from me.
That's my chance. I dart around the distracted guard,
push open the door marked 3908, and find them. Halfnaked,
bruised, and shackled to the wall.
My prep team.
4
The stink of unwashed bodies, stale urine, and
infection breaks through the cloud of antiseptic. The three
figures are only just recognizable by their most striking
fashion choices: Venia's gold facial tattoos. Flavius's
orange corkscrew curls. Octavia's light evergreen skin,
which now hangs too loosely, as if her body were a slowly
deflating balloon.
On seeing me, Flavius and Octavia shrink back
against the tiled walls like they're anticipating an attack,
even though I have never hurt them. Unkind thoughts were
my worst offense against them, and those I kept to myself,
so why do they recoil?
The guard's ordering me out, but by the shuffling that
follows, I know Gale has somehow detained him. For
answers, I cross to Venia, who was always the strongest. I
crouch down and take her icy hands, which clutch mine like
vises.
"What happened, Venia?" I ask. "What are you doing
here?"
"They took us. From the Capitol," she says hoarsely.
Plutarch enters behind me. "What on earth is going
on?"
"Who took you?" I press her.
"People," she says vaguely. "The night you broke out."
"We thought it might be comforting for you to have your
regular team," Plutarch says behind me. "Cinna requested
it."
"Cinna requested this?" I snarl at him. Because if
there's one thing I know, it's that Cinna would never have
approved the abuse of these three, who he managed with
gentleness and patience. "Why are they being treated like
criminals?"
"I honestly don't know." There's something in his voice
that makes me believe him, and the pallor on Fulvia's face
confirms it. Plutarch turns to the guard, who's just appeared
in the doorway with Gale right behind him. "I was only told
they were being confined. Why are they being punished?"
"For stealing food. We had to restrain them after an
altercation over some bread," says the guard.
Venia's brows come together as if she's still trying to
make sense of it. "No one would tell us anything. We were
so hungry. It was just one slice she took."
Octavia begins to sob, muffling the sound in her
ragged tunic. I think of how, the first time I survived the
arena, Octavia sneaked me a roll under the table because
she couldn't bear my hunger. I crawl across to her shaking
form. "Octavia?" I touch her and she flinches. "Octavia? It's
going to be all right. I'll get you out of here, okay?"
"This seems extreme," says Plutarch.
"It's because they took a slice of bread?" asks Gale.
"There were repeated infractions leading up to that.
They were warned. Still they took more bread." The guard
pauses a moment, as if puzzled by our density. "You can't
take bread."
I can't get Octavia to uncover her face, but she lifts it
slightly. The shackles on her wrists shift down a few inches,
revealing raw sores beneath them. "I'm bringing you to my
mother." I address the guard. "Unchain them."
The guard shakes his head. "It's not authorized."
"Unchain them! Now!" I yell.
This breaks his composure. Average citizens don't
address him this way. "I have no release orders. And you
have no authority to--"
"Do it on my authority," says Plutarch. "We came to
collect these three anyway. They're needed for Special
Defense. I'll take full responsibility."
The guard leaves to make a call. He returns with a set
of keys. The preps have been forced into cramped body
positions for so long that even once the shackles are
removed, they have trouble walking. Gale, Plutarch, and I
have to help them. Flavius's foot catches on a metal grate
over a circular opening in the floor, and my stomach
contracts when I think of why a room would need a drain.
The stains of human misery that must have been hosed off
these white tiles...
In the hospital, I find my mother, the only one I trust to
care for them. It takes her a minute to place the three, given
their current condition, but already she wears a look of
consternation. And I know it's not a result of seeing abused
bodies, because they were her daily fare in District 12, but
the realization that this sort of thing goes on in 13 as well.
My mother was welcomed into the hospital, but she's
viewed as more of a nurse than a doctor, despite her
lifetime of healing. Still, no one interferes when she guides
the trio into an examination room to assess their injuries. I
plant myself on a bench in the hall outside the hospital
entrance, waiting to hear her verdict. She will be able to
read in their bodies the pain inflicted upon them.
Gale sits next to me and puts an arm around my
shoulder. "She'll fix them up." I give a nod, wondering if he's
thinking about his own brutal flogging back in 12.
Plutarch and Fulvia take the bench across from us but
don't offer any comments on the state of my prep team. If
they had no knowledge of the mistreatment, then what do
they make of this move on President Coin's part? I decide
to help them out.
"I guess we've all been put on notice," I say.
"What? No. What do you mean?" asks Fulvia.
"Punishing my prep team's a warning," I tell her. "Not
just to me. But to you, too. About who's really in control and
what happens if she's not obeyed. If you had any delusions
about having power, I'd let them go now. Apparently, a
Capitol pedigree is no protection here. Maybe it's even a
liability."
"There is no comparison between Plutarch, who
masterminded the rebel breakout, and those three
beauticians," says Fulvia icily.
I shrug. "If you say so, Fulvia. But what would happen if
you got on Coin's bad side? My prep team was kidnapped.
They can at least hope to one day return to the Capitol.
Gale and I can live in the woods. But you? Where would you
two run?"
"Perhaps we're a little more necessary to the war effort
than you give us credit for," says Plutarch, unconcerned.
"Of course you are. The tributes were necessary to the
Games, too. Until they weren't," I say. "And then we were
very disposable--right, Plutarch?"
That ends the conversation. We wait in silence until my
mother finds us. "They'll be all right," she reports. "No
permanent physical injuries."
"Good. Splendid," says Plutarch. "How soon can they
be put to work?"
"Probably tomorrow," she answers. "You'll have to
expect some emotional instability, after what they've been
through. They were particularly ill prepared, coming from
their life in the Capitol."
"Weren't we all?" says Plutarch.
Either because the prep team's incapacitated or I'm
too on edge, Plutarch releases me from Mockingjay duties
for the rest of the day. Gale and I head down to lunch, where
we're served bean and onion stew, a thick slice of bread,
and a cup of water. After Venia's story, the bread sticks in
my throat, so I slide the rest of it onto Gale's tray. Neither of
us speaks much during lunch, but when our bowls are
clean, Gale pulls up his sleeve, revealing his schedule. "I've
got training next."
I tug up my sleeve and hold my arm next to his. "Me,
too." I remember that training equals hunting now.
My eagerness to escape into the woods, if only for two
hours, overrides my current concerns. An immersion into
greenery and sunlight will surely help me sort out my
thoughts. Once off the main corridors, Gale and I race like
schoolchildren for the armory, and by the time we arrive, I'm
breathless and dizzy. A reminder that I'm not fully
recovered. The guards provide our old weapons, as well as
knives and a burlap sack that's meant for a game bag. I
tolerate having the tracker clamped to my ankle, try to look
as if I'm listening when they explain how to use the handheld
communicator. The only thing that sticks in my head is that
it has a clock, and we must be back inside 13 by the
designated hour or our hunting privileges will be revoked.
This is one rule I think I will make an effort to abide.
We go outside into the large, fenced-in training area
beside the woods. Guards open the well-oiled gates
without comment. We would be hard-pressed to get past
this fence on our own--thirty feet high and always buzzing
with electricity, topped with razor-sharp curls of steel. We
move through the woods until the view of the fence has
been obscured. In a small clearing, we pause and drop
back our heads to bask in the sunlight. I turn in a circle, my
arms extended at my sides, revolving slowly so as not to
set the world spinning.
The lack of rain I saw in 12 has damaged the plants
here as well, leaving some with brittle leaves, building a
crunchy carpet under our feet. We take off our shoes. Mine
don't fit right anyway, since in the spirit of waste-not-wantnot
that rules 13, I was issued a pair someone had
outgrown. Apparently, one of us walks funny, because
they're broken in all wrong.
We hunt, like in the old days. Silent, needing no words
to communicate, because here in the woods we move as
two parts of one being. Anticipating each other's
movements, watching each other's backs. How long has it
been? Eight months? Nine? Since we had this freedom?
It's not exactly the same, given all that's happened and the
trackers on our ankles and the fact that I have to rest so
often. But it's about as close to happiness as I think I can
currently get.
The animals here are not nearly suspicious enough.
That extra moment it takes to place our unfamiliar scent
means their death. In an hour and a half, we've got a mixed
dozen--rabbits, squirrels, and turkeys--and decide to knock
off to spend the remaining time by a pond that must be fed
by an underground spring, since the water's cool and
sweet. When Gale offers to clean the game, I don't object. I
stick a few mint leaves on my tongue, close my eyes, and
lean back against a rock, soaking in the sounds, letting the
scorching afternoon sun burn my skin, almost at peace until
Gale's voice interrupts me. "Katniss, why do you care so
much about your prep team?"
I open my eyes to see if he's joking, but he's frowning
down at the rabbit he's skinning. "Why shouldn't I?"
"Hm. Let's see. Because they've spent the last year
prettying you up for slaughter?" he suggests.
"It's more complicated than that. I know them. They're
not evil or cruel. They're not even smart. Hurting them, it's
like hurting children. They don't see...I mean, they don't
know..." I get knotted up in my words.
"They don't know what, Katniss?" he says. "That
tributes--who are the actual children involved here, not your
trio of freaks--are forced to fight to the death? That you
were going into that arena for people's amusement? Was
that a big secret in the Capitol?"
"No. But they don't view it the way we do," I say.
"They're raised on it and--"
"Are you actually defending them?" He slips the skin
from the rabbit in one quick move.
That stings, because, in fact, I am, and it's ridiculous. I
struggle to find a logical position. "I guess I'm defending
anyone who's treated like that for taking a slice of bread.
Maybe it reminds me too much of what happened to you
over a turkey!"
Still, he's right. It does seem strange, my level of
concern over the prep team. I should hate them and want to
see them strung up. But they're so clueless, and they
belonged to Cinna, and he was on my side, right?
"I'm not looking for a fight," Gale says. "But I don't think
Coin was sending you some big message by punishing
them for breaking the rules here. She probably thought
you'd see it as a favor." He stuffs the rabbit in the sack and
rises. "We better get going if we want to make it back on
time."
I ignore his offer of a hand up and get to my feet
unsteadily. "Fine." Neither of us talks on the way back, but
once we're inside the gate, I think of something else.
"During the Quarter Quell, Octavia and Flavius had to quit
because they couldn't stop crying over me going back in.
And Venia could barely say good-bye."
"I'll try and keep that in mind as they...remake you,"
says Gale.
"Do," I say.
We hand the meat over to Greasy Sae in the kitchen.
She likes District 13 well enough, even though she thinks
the cooks are somewhat lacking in imagination. But a
woman who came up with a palatable wild dog and rhubarb
stew is bound to feel as if her hands are tied here.
Exhausted from hunting and my lack of sleep, I go
back to my compartment to find it stripped bare, only to
remember we've been moved because of Buttercup. I
make my way up to the top floor and find Compartment E. It
looks exactly like Compartment 307, except for the window-
-two feet wide, eight inches high--centered at the top of the
outside wall. There's a heavy metal plate that fastens over
it, but right now it's propped open, and a certain cat is
nowhere to be seen. I stretch out on my bed, and a shaft of
afternoon sunlight plays on my face. The next thing I know,
my sister is waking me for 18:00--Reflection.
Prim tells me they've been announcing the assembly
since lunch. The entire population, except those needed for
essential jobs, is required to attend. We follow directions to
the Collective, a huge room that easily holds the thousands
who show up. You can tell it was built for a larger gathering,
and perhaps it held one before the pox epidemic. Prim
quietly points out the widespread fallout from that disaster--
the pox scars on people's bodies, the slightly disfigured
children. "They've suffered a lot here," she says.
After this morning, I'm in no mood to feel sorry for 13.
"No more than we did in Twelve," I say. I see my mother
lead in a group of mobile patients, still wearing their
hospital nightgowns and robes. Finnick stands among
them, looking dazed but gorgeous. In his hands he holds a
piece of thin rope, less than a foot in length, too short for
even him to fashion into a usable noose. His fingers move
rapidly, automatically tying and unraveling various knots as
he gazes about. Probably part of his therapy. I cross to him
and say, "Hey, Finnick." He doesn't seem to notice, so I
nudge him to get his attention. "Finnick! How are you
doing?"
"Katniss," he says, gripping my hand. Relieved to see
a familiar face, I think. "Why are we meeting here?"
"I told Coin I'd be her Mockingjay. But I made her
promise to give the other tributes immunity if the rebels
won," I tell him. "In public, so there are plenty of witnesses."
"Oh. Good. Because I worry about that with Annie. That
she'll say something that could be construed as traitorous
without knowing it," says Finnick.
Annie. Uh-oh. Totally forgot her. "Don't worry, I took
care of it." I give Finnick's hand a squeeze and head
straight for the podium at the front of the room. Coin, who is
glancing over her statement, raises her eyebrows at me. "I
need you to add Annie Cresta to the immunity list," I tell her.
The president frowns slightly. "Who's that?"
"She's Finnick Odair's--" What? I don't really know
what to call her. "She's Finnick's friend. From District Four.
Another victor. She was arrested and taken to the Capitol
when the arena blew up."
"Oh, the mad girl. That's not really necessary," she
says. "We don't make a habit of punishing anyone that
frail."
I think of the scene I walked in on this morning. Of
Octavia huddled against the wall. Of how Coin and I must
have vastly different definitions of frailty. But I only say, "No?
Then it shouldn't be a problem to add Annie."
"All right," says the president, penciling in Annie's
name. "Do you want to be up here with me for the
announcement?" I shake my head. "I didn't think so. Better
hurry and lose yourself in the crowd. I'm about to begin." I
make my way back to Finnick.
Words are another thing not wasted in 13. Coin calls
the audience to attention and tells them I have consented to
be the Mockingjay, provided the other victors--Peeta,
Johanna, Enobaria, and Annie--will be granted full pardon
for any damage they do to the rebel cause. In the rumbling
of the crowd, I hear the dissent. I suppose no one doubted I
would want to be the Mockingjay. So naming a price--one
that spares possible enemies--angers them. I stand
indifferent to the hostile looks thrown my way.
The president allows a few moments of unrest, and
then continues in her brisk fashion. Only now the words
coming out of her mouth are news to me. "But in return for
this unprecedented request, Soldier Everdeen has
promised to devote herself to our cause. It follows that any
deviance from her mission, in either motive or deed, will be
viewed as a break in this agreement. The immunity would
be terminated and the fate of the four victors determined by
the law of District Thirteen. As would her own. Thank you."
In other words, I step out of line and we're all dead.
5
Another force to contend with. Another power player
who has decided to use me as a piece in her games,
although things never seem to go according to plan. First
there were the Gamemakers, making me their star and
then scrambling to recover from that handful of poisonous
berries. Then President Snow, trying to use me to put out
the flames of rebellion, only to have my every move become
inflammatory. Next, the rebels ensnaring me in the metal
claw that lifted me from the arena, designating me to be
their Mockingjay, and then having to recover from the shock
that I might not want the wings. And now Coin, with her
fistful of precious nukes and her well-oiled machine of a
district, finding it's even harder to groom a Mockingjay than
to catch one. But she has been the quickest to determine
that I have an agenda of my own and am therefore not to be
trusted. She has been the first to publicly brand me as a
threat.
I run my fingers through the thick layer of bubbles in my
tub. Cleaning me up is just a preliminary step to
determining my new look. With my acid-damaged hair,
sunburned skin, and ugly scars, the prep team has to make
me pretty and then damage, burn, and scar me in a more
attractive way.
"Remake her to Beauty Base Zero," Fulvia ordered
first thing this morning. "We'll work from there." Beauty
Base Zero turns out to be what a person would look like if
they stepped out of bed looking flawless but natural. It
means my nails are perfectly shaped but not polished. My
hair soft and shiny but not styled. My skin smooth and clear
but not painted. Wax the body hair and erase the dark
circles, but don't make any noticeable enhancements. I
suppose Cinna gave the same instructions the first day I
arrived as a tribute in the Capitol. Only that was different,
since I was a contestant. As a rebel, I thought I'd get to look
more like myself. But it seems a televised rebel has her
own standards to live up to.
After I rinse the lather from my body, I turn to find
Octavia waiting with a towel. She is so altered from the
woman I knew in the Capitol, stripped of the gaudy clothing,
the heavy makeup, the dyes and jewelry and knickknacks
she adorned her hair with. I remember how one day she
showed up with bright pink tresses studded with blinking
colored lights shaped like mice. She told me she had
several mice at home as pets. The thought repulsed me at
the time, since we consider mice vermin, unless cooked.
But perhaps Octavia liked them because they were small,
soft, and squeaky. Like her. As she pats me dry, I try to
become acquainted with the District 13 Octavia. Her real
hair turns out to be a nice auburn. Her face is ordinary but
has an undeniable sweetness. She's younger than I thought.
Maybe early twenties. Devoid of the three-inch decorative
nails, her fingers appear almost stubby, and they can't stop
trembling. I want to tell her it's okay, that I'll see that Coin
never hurts her again. But the multicolored bruises
flowering under her green skin only remind me how
impotent I am.
Flavius, too, appears washed out without his purple
lipstick and bright clothes. He's managed to get his orange
ringlets back in some sort of order, though. It's Venia who's
the least changed. Her aqua hair lies flat instead of in
spikes and you can see the roots growing in gray.
However, the tattoos were always her most striking
characteristic, and they're as golden and shocking as ever.
She comes and takes the towel from Octavia's hands.
"Katniss is not going to hurt us," she says quietly but
firmly to Octavia. "Katniss did not even know we were here.
Things will be better now." Octavia gives a slight nod but
doesn't dare look me in the eye.
It's no simple job getting me back to Beauty Base
Zero, even with the elaborate arsenal of products, tools,
and gadgets Plutarch had the foresight to bring from the
Capitol. My preps do pretty well until they try to address the
spot on my arm where Johanna dug out the tracker. None
of the medical team was focusing on looks when they
patched up the gaping hole. Now I have a lumpy, jagged
scar that ripples out over a space the size of an apple.
Usually, my sleeve covers it, but the way Cinna's
Mockingjay costume is designed, the sleeves stop just
above the elbow. It's such a concern that Fulvia and
Plutarch are called in to discuss it. I swear, the sight of it
triggers Fulvia's gag reflex. For someone who works with a
Gamemaker, she's awfully sensitive. But I guess she's used
to seeing unpleasant things only on a screen.
"Everyone knows I have a scar here," I say sullenly.
"Knowing it and seeing it are two different things,"
says Fulvia. "It's positively repulsive. Plutarch and I will think
of something during lunch."
"It'll be fine," says Plutarch with a dismissive wave of
his hand. "Maybe an armband or something."
Disgusted, I get dressed so I can head to the dining
hall. My prep team huddles in a little group by the door. "Are
they bringing your food here?" I ask.
"No," says Venia. "We're supposed to go to a dining
hall."
I sigh inwardly as I imagine walking into the dining hall,
trailed by these three. But people always stare at me
anyway. This will be more of the same. "I'll show you where
it is," I say. "Come on."
The covert glances and quiet murmurs I usually evoke
are nothing compared to the reaction brought on by the
sight of my bizarre-looking prep team. The gaping mouths,
the finger pointing, the exclamations. "Just ignore them," I
tell my prep team. Eyes downcast, with mechanical
movements, they follow me through the line, accepting
bowls of grayish fish and okra stew and cups of water.
We take seats at my table, beside a group from the
Seam. They show a little more restraint than the people
from 13 do, although it may just be from embarrassment.
Leevy, who was my neighbor back in 12, gives a cautious
hello to the preps, and Gale's mother, Hazelle, who must
know about their imprisonment, holds up a spoonful of the
stew. "Don't worry," she says. "Tastes better than it looks."
But it's Posy, Gale's five-year-old sister, who helps the
most. She scoots along the bench to Octavia and touches
her skin with a tentative finger. "You're green. Are you
sick?"
"It's a fashion thing, Posy. Like wearing lipstick," I say.
"It's meant to be pretty," whispers Octavia, and I can
see the tears threatening to spill over her lashes.
Posy considers this and says matter-of-factly, "I think
you'd be pretty in any color."
The tiniest of smiles forms on Octavia's lips. "Thank
you."
"If you really want to impress Posy, you'll have to dye
yourself bright pink," says Gale, thumping his tray down
beside me. "That's her favorite color." Posy giggles and
slides back down to her mother. Gale nods at Flavius's
bowl. "I wouldn't let that get cold. It doesn't improve the
consistency."
Everyone gets down to eating. The stew doesn't taste
bad, but there's a certain sliminess that's hard to get
around. Like you have to swallow every bite three times
before it really goes down.
Gale, who's not usually much of a talker during meals,
makes an effort to keep the conversation going, asking
about the makeover. I know it's his attempt at smoothing
things over. We argued last night after he suggested I'd left
Coin no choice but to counter my demand for the victors'
safety with one of her own. "Katniss, she's running this
district. She can't do it if it seems like she's caving in to
your will."
"You mean she can't stand any dissent, even if it's fair,"
I'd countered.
"I mean you put her in a bad position. Making her give
Peeta and the others immunity when we don't even know
what sort of damage they might cause," Gale had said.
"So I should've just gone with the program and let the
other tributes take their chances? Not that it matters,
because that's what we're all doing anyway!" That was
when I'd slammed the door in his face. I hadn't sat with him
at breakfast, and when Plutarch had sent him down to
training this morning, I'd let him go without a word. I know he
only spoke out of concern for me, but I really need him to be
on my side, not Coin's. How can he not know that?
After lunch, Gale and I are scheduled to go down to
Special Defense to meet Beetee. As we ride the elevator,
Gale finally says, "You're still angry."
"And you're still not sorry," I reply.
"I still stand by what I said. Do you want me to lie about
it?" he asks.
"No, I want you to rethink it and come up with the right
opinion," I tell him. But this just makes him laugh. I have to
let it go. There's no point in trying to dictate what Gale
thinks. Which, if I'm honest, is one reason I trust him.
The Special Defense level is situated almost as far
down as the dungeons where we found the prep team. It's a
beehive of rooms full of computers, labs, research
equipment, and testing ranges.
When we ask for Beetee, we're directed through the
maze until we reach an enormous plate-glass window.
Inside is the first beautiful thing I've seen in the District 13
compound: a replication of a meadow, filled with real trees
and flowering plants, and alive with hummingbirds. Beetee
sits motionless in a wheelchair at the center of the
meadow, watching a spring-green bird hover in midair as it
sips nectar from a large orange blossom. His eyes follow
the bird as it darts away, and he catches sight of us. He
gives a friendly wave for us to join him inside.
The air's cool and breathable, not humid and muggy as
I'd expected. From all sides comes the whir of tiny wings,
which I used to confuse with the sound of insects in our
woods at home. I have to wonder what sort of fluke allowed
such a pleasing place to be built here.
Beetee still has the pallor of someone in
convalescence, but behind those ill-fitting glasses, his eyes
are alight with excitement. "Aren't they magnificent?
Thirteen has been studying their aerodynamics here for
years. Forward and backward flight, and speeds up to sixty
miles per hour. If only I could build you wings like these,
Katniss!"
"Doubt I could manage them, Beetee," I laugh.
"Here one second, gone the next. Can you bring a
hummingbird down with an arrow?" he asks.
"I've never tried. Not much meat on them," I answer.
"No. And you're not one to kill for sport," he says. "I bet
they'd be hard to shoot, though."
"You could snare them maybe," Gale says. His face
takes on that distant look it wears when he's working
something out. "Take a net with a very fine mesh. Enclose
an area and leave a mouth of a couple square feet. Bait the
inside with nectar flowers. While they're feeding, snap the
mouth shut. They'd fly away from the noise but only
encounter the far side of the net."
"Would that work?" asks Beetee.
"I don't know. Just an idea," says Gale. "They might
outsmart it."
"They might. But you're playing on their natural instincts
to flee danger. Thinking like your prey...that's where you find
their vulnerabilities," says Beetee.
I remember something I don't like to think about. In
preparation for the Quell, I saw a tape where Beetee, who
was still a boy, connected two wires that electrocuted a
pack of kids who were hunting him. The convulsing bodies,
the grotesque expressions. Beetee, in the moments that
led up to his victory in those long-ago Hunger Games,
watched the others die. Not his fault. Only self-defense. We
were all acting only in self-defense....
Suddenly, I want to leave the hummingbird room
before somebody starts setting up a snare. "Beetee,
Plutarch said you had something for me."
"Right. I do. Your new bow." He presses a hand control
on the arm of the chair and wheels out of the room. As we
follow him through the twists and turns of Special Defense,
he explains about the chair. "I can walk a little now. It's just
that I tire so quickly. It's easier for me to get around this
way. How's Finnick doing?"
"He's...he's having concentration problems," I answer. I
don't want to say he had a complete mental meltdown.
"Concentration problems, eh?" Beetee smiles grimly.
"If you knew what Finnick's been through the last few years,
you'd know how remarkable it is he's still with us at all. Tell
him I've been working on a new trident for him, though, will
you? Something to distract him a little." Distraction seems
to be the last thing Finnick needs, but I promise to pass on
the message.
Four soldiers guard the entrance to the hall marked
Special Weaponry. Checking the schedules printed on our
forearms is just a preliminary step. We also have
fingerprint, retinal, and DNA scans, and have to step
through special metal detectors. Beetee has to leave his
wheelchair outside, although they provide him with another
once we're through security. I find the whole thing bizarre
because I can't imagine anyone raised in District 13 being
a threat the government would have to guard against. Have
these precautions been put in place because of the recent
influx of immigrants?
At the door of the armory, we encounter a second
round of identification checks--as if my DNA might have
changed in the time it took to walk twenty yards down the
hallway--and are finally allowed to enter the weapons
collection. I have to admit the arsenal takes my breath
away. Row upon row of firearms, launchers, explosives,
armored vehicles. "Of course, the Airborne Division is
housed separately," Beetee tells us.
"Of course," I say, as if this would be self-evident. I
don't know where a simple bow and arrow could possibly
find a place in all this high-tech equipment, but then we
come upon a wall of deadly archery weapons. I've played
with a lot of the Capitol's weapons in training, but none
designed for military combat. I focus my attention on a
lethal-looking bow so loaded down with scopes and
gadgetry, I'm certain I can't even lift it, let alone shoot it.
"Gale, maybe you'd like to try out a few of these," says
Beetee.
"Seriously?" Gale asks.
"You'll be issued a gun eventually for battle, of course.
But if you appear as part of Katniss's team in the propos,
one of these would look a little showier. I thought you might
like to find one that suits you," says Beetee.
"Yeah, I would." Gale's hands close around the very
bow that caught my attention a moment ago, and he hefts it
onto his shoulder. He points it around the room, peering
through the scope.
"That doesn't seem very fair to the deer," I say.
"Wouldn't be using it on deer, would I?" he answers.
"I'll be right back," says Beetee. He presses a code
into a panel, and a small doorway opens. I watch until he's
disappeared and the door's shut.
"So, it'd be easy for you? Using that on people?" I ask.
"I didn't say that." Gale drops the bow to his side. "But
if I'd had a weapon that could've stopped what I saw
happen in Twelve...if I'd had a weapon that could have kept
you out of the arena...I'd have used it."
"Me, too," I admit. But I don't know what to tell him
about the aftermath of killing a person. About how they
never leave you.
Beetee wheels back in with a tall, black rectangular
case awkwardly positioned between his footrest and his
shoulder. He comes to a halt and tilts it toward me. "For
you."
I set the case flat on the floor and undo the latches
along one side. The top opens on silent hinges. Inside the
case, on a bed of crushed maroon velvet, lies a stunning
black bow. "Oh," I whisper in admiration. I lift it carefully into
the air to admire the exquisite balance, the elegant design,
and the curve of the limbs that somehow suggests the
wings of a bird extended in flight. There's something else. I
have to hold very still to make sure I'm not imagining it. No,
the bow is alive in my hands. I press it against my cheek
and feel the slight hum travel through the bones of my face.
"What's it doing?" I ask.
"Saying hello," explains Beetee with a grin. "It heard
your voice."
"It recognizes my voice?" I ask.
"Only your voice," he tells me. "You see, they wanted
me to design a bow based purely on looks. As part of your
costume, you know? But I kept thinking, What a waste. I
mean, what if you do need it sometime? As more than a
fashion accessory? So I left the outside simple, and left the
inside to my imagination. Best explained in practice,
though. Want to try those out?"
We do. A target range has already been prepared for
us. The arrows that Beetee designed are no less
remarkable than the bow. Between the two, I can shoot with
accuracy over one hundred yards. The variety of arrows--
razor sharp, incendiary, explosive--turn the bow into a
multipurpose weapon. Each one is recognizable by a
distinctive colored shaft. I have the option of voice override
at any time, but have no idea why I would use it. To
deactivate the bow's special properties, I need only tell it
"Good night." Then it goes to sleep until the sound of my
voice wakes it again.
I'm in good spirits by the time I get back to the prep
team, leaving Beetee and Gale behind. I sit patiently
through the rest of the paint job and don my costume, which
now includes a bloody bandage over the scar on my arm to
indicate I've been in recent combat. Venia affixes my
mockingjay pin over my heart. I take up my bow and the
sheath of normal arrows that Beetee made, knowing they
would never let me walk around with the loaded ones. Then
we're out on the soundstage, where I seem to stand for
hours while they adjust makeup and lighting and smoke
levels. Eventually, the commands coming via intercom from
the invisible people in the mysterious glassed-in booth
become fewer and fewer. Fulvia and Plutarch spend more
time studying and less time adjusting me. Finally, there's
quiet on the set. For a full five minutes I am simply
considered. Then Plutarch says, "I think that does it."
I'm beckoned over to a monitor. They play back the last
few minutes of taping and I watch the woman on the screen.
Her body seems larger in stature, more imposing than
mine. Her face smudged but sexy. Her brows black and
drawn in an angle of defiance. Wisps of smoke--suggesting
she has either just been extinguished or is about to burst
into flames--rise from her clothes. I do not know who this
person is.
Finnick, who's been wandering around the set for a
few hours, comes up behind me and says with a hint of his
old humor, "They'll either want to kill you, kiss you, or be
you."
Everyone's so excited, so pleased with their work. It's
nearly time to break for dinner, but they insist we continue.
Tomorrow we'll focus on speeches and interviews and have
me pretend to be in rebel battles. Today they want just one
slogan, just one line that they can work into a short propo to
show to Coin.
"People of Panem, we fight, we dare, we end our
hunger for justice!" That's the line. I can tell by the way they
present it that they've spent months, maybe years, working
it out and are really proud of it. It seems like a mouthful to
me, though. And stiff. I can't imagine actually saying it in
real life--unless I was using a Capitol accent and making
fun of it. Like when Gale and I used to imitate Effie Trinket's
"May the odds be ever in your favor!" But Fulvia's right in
my face, describing a battle I've just been in, and how my
comrades-in-arms are all lying dead around me, and how,
to rally the living, I must turn to the camera and shout out the
line!
I'm hustled back to my place, and the smoke machine
kicks in. Someone calls for quiet, the cameras start rolling,
and I hear "Action!" So I hold my bow over my head and yell
with all the anger I can muster, "People of Panem, we fight,
we dare, we end our hunger for justice!"
There's dead silence on the set. It goes on. And on.
Finally, the intercom crackles and Haymitch's acerbic
laugh fills the studio. He contains himself just long enough
to say, "And that, my friends, is how a revolution dies."
6
The shock of hearing Haymitch's voice yesterday, of
learning that he was not only functional but had some
measure of control over my life again, enraged me. I left the
studio directly and refused to acknowledge his comments
from the booth today. Even so, I knew immediately he was
right about my performance.
It took the whole of this morning for him to convince the
others of my limitations. That I can't pull it off. I can't stand in
a television studio wearing a costume and makeup in a
cloud of fake smoke and rally the districts to victory. It's
amazing, really, how long I have survived the cameras. The
credit for that, of course, goes to Peeta. Alone, I can't be
the Mockingjay.
We gather around the huge table in Command. Coin
and her people. Plutarch, Fulvia, and my prep team. A
group from 12 that includes Haymitch and Gale, but also a
few others I can't explain, like Leevy and Greasy Sae. At
the last minute, Finnick wheels Beetee in, accompanied by
Dalton, the cattle expert from 10. I suppose that Coin has
assembled this strange assortment of people as witnesses
to my failure.
However, it's Haymitch who welcomes everyone, and
by his words I understand that they have come at his
personal invitation. This is the first time we've been in a
room together since I clawed him. I avoid looking at him
directly, but I catch a glimpse of his reflection in one of the
