
“Who cares if he’s half- giant?” Harry shouted. “There’s 
nothing wrong with him!” 

The whole pub had gone very quiet. Madam Rosmerta 
was staring over from behind the bar, apparently 
oblivious to the fact that the flagon she was filling 
with mead was overflowing. 

Rita Skeeter’s smile flickered very slightly, but she 
hitched it back almost at once; she snapped open her 
crocodile-skin handbag, pulled out her Quick-Quotes 
Quill, and said, “How about giving me an interview 
about the Hagrid you know, Harry? The man behind 
the muscles? Your unlikely friendship and the 
reasons behind it. Would you call him a father 
substitute?” 

Hermione stood up very abruptly, her butterbeer 
clutched in her hand as though it were a grenade. 

“You horrible woman,” she said, through gritted teeth, 
“you don’t care, do you, anything for a story, and 
anyone will do, won’t they? Even Ludo Bagman — ” 

“Sit down, you silly little girl, and don’t talk about 
things you don’t understand,” said Rita Skeeter 
coldly, her eyes hardening as they fell on Hermione. “I 
know things about Ludo Bagman that would make 
your hair curl . . . not that it needs it — ” she added, 
eyeing Hermione ’s bushy hair. 

Page | 498 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Let’s go,” said Hermione, “c’mon, Harry — Ron ...” 



They left; many people were staring at them as they 
went. Harry glanced back as they reached the door. 
Rita Skeeter’s Quick-Quotes Quill was out; it was 
zooming backward and forward over a piece of 
parchment on the table. 

“She’ll be after you next, Hermione,” said Ron in a low 
and worried voice as they walked quickly back up the 
street. 

“Let her try!” said Hermione defiantly; she was 
shaking with rage. “I’ll show her! Silly little girl, am I? 
Oh, I’ll get her back for this. First Harry, then Hagrid 



“You don’t want to go upsetting Rita Skeeter,” said 
Ron nervously. “I’m serious, Hermione, she’ll dig up 
something on you — ” 

“My parents don’t read the Daily Prophet She can’t 
scare me into hiding!” said Hermione, now striding 
along so fast that it was all Harry and Ron could do to 
keep up with her. The last time Harry had seen 
Hermione in a rage like this, she had hit Draco Malfoy 
around the face. “And Hagrid isn’t hiding anymore! 

He should never have let that excuse for a human 
being upset him! Come on!” 

Breaking into a run, she led them all the way back up 
the road, through the gates flanked by winged boars, 
and up through the grounds to Hagrid ’s cabin. 

The curtains were still drawn, and they could hear 
Fang barking as they approached. 

“Hagrid!” Hermione shouted, pounding on his front 
door. “Hagrid, that’s enough! We know you’re in there! 

Page | 499 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Nobody cares if your mum was a giantess, Hagrid! 

You can’t let that foul Skeeter woman do this to you! 
Hagrid, get out here, you’re just being — ” 

The door opened. Hermione said, “About t — !” and 
then stopped, very suddenly, because she had found 
herself face-to-face, not with Hagrid, but with Albus 
Dumbledore. 

“Good afternoon,” he said pleasantly, smiling down at 
them. 

“We — er — we wanted to see Hagrid,” said Hermione 
in a rather small voice. 

“Yes, I surmised as much,” said Dumbledore, his eyes 
twinkling. “Why don’t you come in?” 

“Oh ... um ... okay,” said Hermione. 

She, Ron, and Harry went into the cabin; Fang 
launched himself upon Harry the moment he entered, 
barking madly and trying to lick his ears. Harry 
fended off Fang and looked around. 

Hagrid was sitting at his table, where there were two 
large mugs of tea. He looked a real mess. His face was 
blotchy, his eyes swollen, and he had gone to the 
other extreme where his hair was concerned; far from 
trying to make it behave, it now looked like a wig of 
tangled wire. 

“Hi, Hagrid,” said Harry. 

Hagrid looked up. 

“ ’Lo,” he said in a very hoarse voice. 



Page | 500 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“More tea, I think,” said Dumbledore, closing the door 
behind Harry, Ron, and Hermione, drawing out his 
wand, and twiddling it; a revolving tea tray appeared 
in midair along with a plate of cakes. Dumbledore 
magicked the tray onto the table, and everybody sat 
down. There was a slight pause, and then 
Dumbledore said, “Did you by any chance hear what 
Miss Granger was shouting, Hagrid?” 

Hermione went slightly pink, but Dumbledore smiled 
at her and continued, “Hermione, Harry, and Ron still 
seem to want to know you, judging by the way they 
were attempting to break down the door.” 

“Of course we still want to know you!” Harry said, 
staring at Hagrid. “You don’t think anything that 
Skeeter cow — sorry, Professor,” he added quickly, 
looking at Dumbledore. 

“I have gone temporarily deaf and haven’t any idea 
what you said, Harry,” said Dumbledore, twiddling 
his thumbs and staring at the ceiling. 

“Er — right,” said Harry sheepishly. “I just meant — 
Hagrid, how could you think we’d care what that — 
woman — wrote about you?” 

Two fat tears leaked out of Hagrid ’s beetle-black eyes 
and fell slowly into his tangled beard. 

“Living proof of what I’ve been telling you, Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore, still looking carefully up at the 
ceiling. “I have shown you the letters from the 
countless parents who remember you from their own 
days here, telling me in no uncertain terms that if I 
sacked you, they would have something to say about 
it — ” 



Page | 501 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Not all of ’em,” said Hagrid hoarsely. “Not all of ’em 
wan’ me ter stay.” 

“Really, Hagrid, if you are holding out for universal 
popularity, I’m afraid you will be in this cabin for a 
very long time,” said Dumbledore, now peering sternly 
over his half-moon spectacles. “Not a week has 
passed since I became headmaster of this school 
when I haven’t had at least one owl complaining 
about the way I run it. But what should I do? 
Barricade myself in my study and refuse to talk to 
anybody?” 

“Yeh — yeh’re not half-giant!” said Hagrid croakily. 

“Hagrid, look what I’ve got for relatives!” Harry said 
furiously. “Look at the Dursleys!” 

“An excellent point,” said Professor Dumbledore. “My 
own brother, Aberforth, was prosecuted for practicing 
inappropriate charms on a goat. It was all over the 
papers, but did Aberforth hide? No, he did not! He 
held his head high and went about his business as 
usual! Of course, I’m not entirely sure he can read, so 
that may not have been bravery. ...” 

“Come back and teach, Hagrid,” said Hermione 
quietly, “please come back, we really miss you.” 

Hagrid gulped. More tears leaked out down his cheeks 
and into his tangled beard. 

Dumbledore stood up. “I refuse to accept your 
resignation, Hagrid, and I expect you back at work on 
Monday,” he said. “You will join me for breakfast at 
eight-thirty in the Great Hall. No excuses. Good 
afternoon to you all.” 



Page | 502 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore left the cabin, pausing only to scratch 
Fang’s ears. When the door had shut behind him, 
Hagrid began to sob into his dustbin-lid-sized hands. 
Hermione kept patting his arm, and at last, Hagrid 
looked up, his eyes very red indeed, and said, “Great 
man, Dumbledore ... great man ...” 

“Yeah, he is,” said Ron. “Can I have one of these 
cakes, Hagrid?” 

“Help yerself,” said Hagrid, wiping his eyes on the 
back of his hand. “Ar, he’s righ’, o’ course — yeh’re all 
righ’ ... I bin stupid ... my ol’ dad woulda bin 
ashamed o’ the way I’ve bin behavin’. ...” More tears 
leaked out, but he wiped them away more forcefully, 
and said, “Never shown you a picture of my old dad, 
have I? Here ...” 

Hagrid got up, went over to his dresser, opened a 
drawer, and pulled out a picture of a short wizard 
with Hagrid’s crinkled black eyes, beaming as he sat 
on top of Hagrid’s shoulder. Hagrid was a good seven 
or eight feet tall, judging by the apple tree beside him, 
but his face was beardless, young, round, and smooth 
— he looked hardly older than eleven. 

“Tha’ was taken jus’ after I got inter Hogwarts,” 

Hagrid croaked. “Dad was dead chuffed ... thought I 
migh’ not be a wizard, see, ’cos me mum ... well, 
anyway. ’Course, I never was great shakes at magic, 
really ... but at least he never saw me expelled. Died, 
see, in me second year. ... 

“Dumbledore was the one who stuck up for me after 
Dad went. Got me the gamekeeper job ... trusts 
people, he does. Gives ’em second chances ... tha’s 
what sets him apar’ from other heads, see. He’ll 
accept anyone at Hogwarts, s’long as they’ve got the 
talent. Knows people can turn out okay even if their 
Page | 503 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




families weren’ ... well ... all tha’ respectable. But 
some don’ understand that. There’s some who’d 
always hold it against yeh ... there’s some who’d even 
pretend they just had big bones rather than stand up 
an’ say — I am what I am, an’ I’m not ashamed. 

‘Never be ashamed,’ my ol’ dad used ter say, ‘there’s 
some wholl hold it against you, but they’re not worth 
botherin’ with.’ An’ he was right. I’ve bin an idiot. I’m 
not botherin’ with her no more, I promise yeh that. 

Big bones ... I’ll give her big bones.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another 
nervously; Harry would rather have taken fifty Blast- 
Ended Skrewts for a walk than admit to Hagrid that 
he had overheard him talking to Madame Maxime, 
but Hagrid was still talking, apparently unaware that 
he had said anything odd. 

“Yeh know wha’, Harry?” he said, looking up from the 
photograph of his father, his eyes very bright, “when I 
firs’ met you, you reminded me o’ me a bit. Mum an’ 
Dad gone, an’ you was feelin’ like yeh wouldn’ fit in at 
Hogwarts, remember? Not sure yeh were really up to 
it ... an’ now look at yeh, Harry! School champion!” 

He looked at Harry for a moment and then said, very 
seriously, “Yeh know what I’d love, Harry? I’d love yeh 
ter win, I really would. It’d show ’em all ... yeh don’ 
have ter be pureblood ter do it. Yeh don’ have ter be 
ashamed of what yeh are. It’d show ’em Dumbledore’s 
the one who’s got it righ’, lettin’ anyone in as long as 
they can do magic. How you doin’ with that egg, 
Harry?” 

“Great,” said Harry. “Really great.” 

Hagrid ’s miserable face broke into a wide, watery 
smile. 



Page | 504 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Tha’s my boy ... you show ’em, Harry, you show ’em. 
Beat ’em all.” 

Lying to Hagrid wasn’t quite like lying to anyone else. 
Harry went back to the castle later that afternoon 
with Ron and Hermione, unable to banish the image 
of the happy expression on Hagrid’s whiskery face as 
he had imagined Harry winning the tournament. The 
incomprehensible egg weighed more heavily than ever 
on Harry’s conscience that evening, and by the time 
he had got into bed, he had made up his mind — it 
was time to shelve his pride and see if Cedric’s hint 
was worth anything. 



Page | 505 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 









THE EGG AND THE EYE 

As Harry had no idea how long a bath he would need 
to work out the secret of the golden egg, he decided to 
do it at night, when he would be able to take as much 
time as he wanted. Reluctant though he was to accept 
more favours from Cedric, he also decided to use the 
prefects’ bathroom; far fewer people were allowed in 
there, so it was much less likely that he would be 
disturbed. 

Harry planned his excursion carefully, because he 
had been caught out of bed and out-of-bounds by 
Filch the caretaker in the middle of the night once 
before, and had no desire to repeat the experience. 

The Invisibility Cloak would, of course, be essential, 
and as an added precaution, Harry thought he would 
take the Marauder’s Map, which, next to the cloak, 
was the most useful aid to rule-breaking Harry 
owned. The map showed the whole of Hogwarts, 
including its many shortcuts and secret passageways 
and, most important of all, it revealed the people 
inside the castle as minuscule, labeled dots, moving 
around the corridors, so that Harry would be 
Page | 506 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



forewarned if somebody was approaching the 
bathroom. 



On Thursday night, Harry sneaked up to bed, put on 
the cloak, crept back downstairs, and, just as he had 
done on the night when Hagrid had shown him the 
dragons, waited for the portrait hole to open. This 
time it was Ron who waited outside to give the Fat 
Lady the password (“banana fritters”). “Good luck,” 
Ron muttered, climbing into the room as Harry crept 
out past him. 

It was awkward moving under the cloak tonight, 
because Harry had the heavy egg under one arm and 
the map held in front of his nose with the other. 
However, the moonlit corridors were empty and silent, 
and by checking the map at strategic intervals, Harry 
was able to ensure that he wouldn’t run into anyone 
he wanted to avoid. When he reached the statue of 
Boris the Bewildered, a lost-looking wizard with his 
gloves on the wrong hands, he located the right door, 
leaned close to it, and muttered the password, “Pine 
fresh,” just as Cedric had told him. 

The door creaked open. Harry slipped inside, bolted 
the door behind him, and pulled off the Invisibility 
Cloak, looking around. 

His immediate reaction was that it would be worth 
becoming a prefect just to be able to use this 
bathroom. It was softly lit by a splendid candle-filled 
chandelier, and everything was made of white marble, 
including what looked like an empty, rectangular 
swimming pool sunk into the middle of the floor. 

About a hundred golden taps stood all around the 
pool’s edges, each with a differently colored jewel set 
into its handle. There was also a diving board. Long 
white linen curtains hung at the windows; a large pile 
of fluffy white towels sat in a corner, and there was a 
Page | 507 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




single golden-framed painting on the wall. It featured 
a blonde mermaid who was fast asleep on a rock, her 
long hair over her face. It fluttered every time she 
snored. 

Harry moved forward, looking around, his footsteps 
echoing off the walls. Magnificent though the 
bathroom was — and quite keen though he was to try 
out a few of those taps — now he was here he 
couldn’t quite suppress the feeling that Cedric might 
have been having him on. How on earth was this 
supposed to help solve the mystery of the egg? 
Nevertheless, he put one of the fluffy towels, the 
cloak, the map, and the egg at the side of the 
swimming-pool-sized bath, then knelt down and 
turned on a few of the taps. 

He could tell at once that they carried different sorts 
of bubble bath mixed with the water, though it wasn’t 
bubble bath as Harry had ever experienced it. One 
tap gushed pink and blue bubbles the size of 
footballs; another poured ice-white foam so thick that 
Harry thought it would have supported his weight if 
he’d cared to test it; a third sent heavily perfumed 
purple clouds hovering over the surface of the water. 
Harry amused himself for a while turning the taps on 
and off, particularly enjoying the effect of one whose 
jet bounced off the surface of the water in large arcs. 
Then, when the deep pool was full of hot water, foam, 
and bubbles, which took a very short time 
considering its size, Harry turned off all the taps, 
pulled off his pajamas, slippers, and dressing gown, 
and slid into the water. 

It was so deep that his feet barely touched the 
bottom, and he actually did a couple of lengths before 
swimming back to the side and treading water, 
staring at the egg. Highly enjoyable though it was to 
swim in hot and foamy water with clouds of different- 
Page | 508 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




colored steam wafting all around him, no stroke of 
brilliance came to him, no sudden burst of 
understanding. 

Harry stretched out his arms, lifted the egg in his wet 
hands, and opened it. The wailing, screeching sound 
filled the bathroom, echoing and reverberating off the 
marble walls, but it sounded just as 
incomprehensible as ever, if not more so with all the 
echoes. He snapped it shut again, worried that the 
sound would attract Filch, wondering whether that 
hadn’t been Cedric’s plan — and then, making him 
jump so badly that he dropped the egg, which 
clattered away across the bathroom floor, someone 
spoke. 

“I’d try putting it in the water, if I were you.” 

Harry had swallowed a considerable amount of 
bubbles in shock. He stood up, sputtering, and saw 
the ghost of a very glum-looking girl sitting cross- 
legged on top of one of the taps. It was Moaning 
Myrtle, who was usually to be heard sobbing in the S- 
bend of a toilet three floors below. 

“Myrtle!” Harry said in outrage, “I’m — I’m not 
wearing anything!” 

The foam was so dense that this hardly mattered, but 
he had a nasty feeling that Myrtle had been spying on 
him from out of one of the taps ever since he had 
arrived. 

“I closed my eyes when you got in,” she said, blinking 
at him through her thick spectacles. “You haven’t 
been to see me for ages.” 

“Yeah ... well ...” said Harry, bending his knees 
slightly, just to make absolutely sure Myrtle couldn’t 

Page | 509 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




see anything but his head, “I’m not supposed to come 
into your bathroom, am I? It’s a girls’ one.” 



“You didn’t used to care,” said Myrtle miserably. “You 
used to be in there all the time.” 

This was true, though only because Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione had found Myrtle’s out-of-order toilets a 
convenient place to brew Polyjuice Potion in secret — 
a forbidden potion that had turned him and Ron into 
living replicas of Crabbe and Goyle for an hour, so 
that they could sneak into the Slytherin common 
room. 

“I got told off for going in there,” said Harry, which 
was half-true; Percy had once caught him coming out 
of Myrtle’s bathroom. “I thought I’d better not come 
back after that.” 

“Oh ... I see ...” said Myrtle, picking at a spot on her 
chin in a morose sort of way. “Well... anyway ... I’d try 
the egg in the water. That’s what Cedric Diggory did.” 

“Have you been spying on him too?” said Harry 
indignantly. “What d’you do, sneak up here in the 
evenings to watch the prefects take baths?” 

“Sometimes,” said Myrtle, rather slyly, “but I’ve never 
come out to speak to anyone before.” 

“I’m honored,” said Harry darkly. “You keep your eyes 
shut!” 

He made sure Myrtle had her glasses well covered 
before hoisting himself out of the bath, wrapping the 
towel firmly around his waist, and going to retrieve 
the egg. Once he was back in the water, Myrtle peered 
through her fingers and said, “Go on, then . . . open it 
under the water!” 

Page | 510 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




Harry lowered the egg beneath the foamy surface and 
opened it ... and this time, it did not wail. A gurgling 
song was coming out of it, a song whose words he 
couldn’t distinguish through the water. 

“You need to put your head under too,” said Myrtle, 
who seemed to be thoroughly enjoying bossing him 
around. “Go on!” 

Harry took a great breath and slid under the surface 
— and now, sitting on the marble bottom of the 
bubble-filled bath, he heard a chorus of eerie voices 
singing to him from the open egg in his hands: 

“Come seek us where our voices sound, 

We cannot sing above the ground, 

And while you’re searching ponder this: 

We’ve taken what you’ll sorely miss, 

An hour long you’ll have to look, 

And to recover what we took, 

But past an hour — the prospect’s black, 

Too late, it’s gone, it won’t come back.” 

Harry let himself float back upward and broke the 
bubbly surface, shaking his hair out of his eyes. 

“Hear it?” said Myrtle. 

“Yeah ... ‘Come seek us where our voices sound ...’ 
and if I need persuading . . . hang on, I need to listen 
again. ...” 



Page | 511 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He sank back beneath the water. It took three more 
underwater renditions of the egg’s song before Harry 
had it memorized; then he trod water for a while, 
thinking hard, while Myrtle sat and watched him. 

“I’ve got to go and look for people who can’t use their 
voices above the ground. ...” he said slowly. “Er ... 
who could that be?” 

“Slow, aren’t you?” 

He had never seen Moaning Myrtle so cheerful, apart 
from the day when a dose of Polyjuice Potion had 
given Hermione the hairy face and tail of a cat. Harry 
stared around the bathroom, thinking ... if the voices 
could only be heard underwater, then it made sense 
for them to belong to underwater creatures. He ran 
this theory past Myrtle, who smirked at him. 

“Well, that’s what Diggory thought,” she said. “He lay 
there talking to himself for ages about it. Ages and 
ages ... nearly all the bubbles had gone. ...” 

“Underwater ...” Harry said slowly. “Myrtle ... what 
lives in the lake, apart from the giant squid?” 

“Oh all sorts,” she said. “I sometimes go down there 
... sometimes don’t have any choice, if someone 
flushes my toilet when I’m not expecting it. ...” 

Trying not to think about Moaning Myrtle zooming 
down a pipe to the lake with the contents of a toilet, 
Harry said, “Well, does anything in there have a 
human voice? Hang on — ” 

Harry’s eyes had fallen on the picture of the snoozing 
mermaid on the wall. 

“Myrtle, there aren’t merpeople in there, are there?” 

Page | 512 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oooh, very good,” she said, her thick glasses 
twinkling, “it took Diggory much longer than that! 

And that was with her awake too” — Myrtle jerked her 
head toward the mermaid with an expression of great 
dislike on her glum face — “giggling and showing off 
and flashing her fins. ...” 

“That’s it, isn’t it?” said Harry excitedly. “The second 
task’s to go and find the merpeople in the lake and . . . 
and ...” 

But he suddenly realized what he was saying, and he 
felt the excitement drain out of him as though 
someone had just pulled a plug in his stomach. He 
wasn’t a very good swimmer; he’d never had much 
practice. Dudley had had lessons in his youth, but 
Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon, no doubt hoping 
that Harry would drown one day, hadn’t bothered to 
give him any. A couple of lengths of this bath were all 
very well, but that lake was very large, and very deep 
. . . and merpeople would surely live right at the 
bottom. ... 

“Myrtle,” Harry said slowly, “how am I supposed to 
breathe ?” 

At this, Myrtle’s eyes filled with sudden tears again. 

“Tactless!” she muttered, groping in her robes for a 
handkerchief. 

“What’s tactless?” said Harry, bewildered. 

“Talking about breathing in front of me!” she said 
shrilly, and her voice echoed loudly around the 
bathroom. “When I can’t ... when I haven’t ... not for 
ages ...” 



Page | 513 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She buried her face in her handkerchief and sniffed 
loudly. Harry remembered how touchy Myrtle had 
always been about being dead, but none of the other 
ghosts he knew made such a fuss about it. 

“Sorry,” he said impatiently. “I didn’t mean — I just 
forgot ...” 

“Oh yes, very easy to forget Myrtle’s dead,” said 
Myrtle, gulping, looking at him out of swollen eyes. 
“Nobody missed me even when I was alive. Took them 
hours and hours to find my body — I know, I was 
sitting there waiting for them. Olive Hornby came into 
the bathroom — ‘Are you in here again, sulking, 
Myrtle?’ she said, ‘because Professor Dippet asked me 
to look for you — ’ And then she saw my body . . . 
ooooh, she didn’t forget it until her dying day, I made 
sure of that . . . followed her around and reminded her, 
I did. I remember at her brother’s wedding — ” 

But Harry wasn’t listening; he was thinking about the 
merpeople’s song again. “We’ve taken what you’ll 
sorely miss.” That sounded as though they were going 
to steal something of his, something he had to get 
back. What were they going to take? 

“ — and then, of course, she went to the Ministry of 
Magic to stop me stalking her, so I had to come back 
here and live in my toilet.” 

“Good,” said Harry vaguely. “Well, I’m a lot further on 
than I was. ... Shut your eyes again, will you? I’m 
getting out.” 

He retrieved the egg from the bottom of the bath, 
climbed out, dried himself, and pulled on his pajamas 
and dressing gown again. 



Page | 514 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Will you come and visit me in my bathroom again 
sometime?” Moaning Myrtle asked mournfully as 
Harry picked up the Invisibility Cloak. 

“Er ... I’ll try,” Harry said, though privately thinking 
the only way he’d be visiting Myrtle’s bathroom again 
was if every other toilet in the castle got blocked. “See 
you, Myrtle ... thanks for your help.” 

“ ’Bye, ’bye,” she said gloomily, and as Harry put on 
the Invisibility Cloak he saw her zoom back up the 
tap. 

Out in the dark corridor, Harry examined the 
Marauder’s Map to check that the coast was still 
clear. Yes, the dots belonging to Filch and his cat, 

Mrs. Norris, were safely in their office ... nothing else 
seemed to be moving apart from Peeves, though he 
was bouncing around the trophy room on the floor 
above. ... Harry had taken his first step back toward 
Gryffindor Tower when something else on the map 
caught his eye ... something distinctly odd. 

Peeves was not the only thing that was moving. A 
single dot was flitting around a room in the bottom 
left-hand corner — Snape’s office. But the dot wasn’t 
labeled “Severus Snape” ... it was Bartemius Crouch. 

Harry stared at the dot. Mr. Crouch was supposed to 
be too ill to go to work or to come to the Yule Ball — 
so what was he doing, sneaking into Hogwarts at one 
o’clock in the morning? Harry watched closely as the 
dot moved around and around the room, pausing 
here and there. ... 

Harry hesitated, thinking . . . and then his curiosity got 
the better of him. He turned and set off in the 
opposite direction toward the nearest staircase. He 
was going to see what Crouch was up to. 

Page | 515 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry walked down the stairs as quietly as possible, 
though the faces in some of the portraits still turned 
curiously at the squeak of a floorboard, the rustle of 
his pajamas. He crept along the corridor below, 
pushed aside a tapestry about halfway along, and 
proceeded down a narrower staircase, a shortcut that 
would take him down two floors. He kept glancing 
down at the map, wondering ... It just didn’t seem in 
character, somehow, for correct, law-abiding Mr. 
Crouch to be sneaking around somebody else’s office 
this late at night. ... 

And then, halfway down the staircase, not thinking 
about what he was doing, not concentrating on 
anything but the peculiar behavior of Mr. Crouch, 
Harry’s leg suddenly sank right through the trick step 
Neville always forgot to jump. He gave an ungainly 
wobble, and the golden egg, still damp from the bath, 
slipped from under his arm. He lurched forward to try 
and catch it, but too late; the egg fell down the long 
staircase with a bang as loud as a bass drum on 
every step — the Invisibility Cloak slipped — Harry 
snatched at it, and the Marauder’s Map fluttered out 
of his hand and slid down six stairs, where, sunk in 
the step to above his knee, he couldn’t reach it. 

The golden egg fell through the tapestry at the bottom 
of the staircase, burst open, and began wailing loudly 
in the corridor below. Harry pulled out his wand and 
struggled to touch the Marauder’s Map, to wipe it 
blank, but it was too far away to reach — 

Pulling the cloak back over himself Harry 
straightened up, listening hard with his eyes screwed 
up with fear ... and, almost immediately — 

“PEEVES!” 



Page | 516 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




It was the unmistakable hunting cry of Filch the 
caretaker. Harry could hear his rapid, shuffling 
footsteps coming nearer and nearer, his wheezy voice 
raised in fury. 

“What’s this racket? Wake up the whole castle, will 
you? I’ll have you, Peeves, I’ll have you, you’ll ... and 
what is this?” 

Filch ’s footsteps halted; there was a clink of metal on 
metal and the wailing stopped — Filch had picked up 
the egg and closed it. Harry stood very still, one leg 
still jammed tightly in the magical step, listening. Any 
moment now, Filch was going to pull aside the 
tapestry, expecting to see Peeves . . . and there would 
be no Peeves ... but if he came up the stairs, he would 
spot the Marauder’s Map ... and Invisibility Cloak or 
not, the map would show “Harry Potter” standing 
exactly where he was. 

“Egg?” Filch said quietly at the foot of the stairs. “My 
sweet!” — Mrs. Norris was obviously with him — “This 
is a Triwizard clue! This belongs to a school 
champion!” 

Harry felt sick; his heart was hammering very fast — 

“PEEVES!” Filch roared gleefully. “You’ve been 
stealing!” 

He ripped back the tapestry below, and Harry saw his 
horrible, pouchy face and bulging, pale eyes staring 
up the dark and (to Filch) deserted staircase. 

“Hiding, are you?” he said softly. “I’m coming to get 
you, Peeves. ... You’ve gone and stolen a Tri wizard 
clue, Peeves. ... Dumbledore’ll have you out of here 
for this, you filthy, pilfering poltergeist. ...” 



Page | 517 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Filch started to climb the stairs, his scrawny, dust- 
colored cat at his heels. Mrs. Norris’s lamp-like eyes, 
so very like her master’s, were fixed directly upon 
Harry. He had had occasion before now to wonder 
whether the Invisibility Cloak worked on cats. ... Sick 
with apprehension, he watched Filch drawing nearer 
and nearer in his old flannel dressing gown — he 
tried desperately to pull his trapped leg free, but it 
merely sank a few more inches — any second now, 
Filch was going to spot the map or walk right into him 



“Filch? What’s going on?” 

Filch stopped a few steps below Harry and turned. At 
the foot of the stairs stood the only person who could 
make Harry’s situation worse: Snape. He was wearing 
a long gray nightshirt and he looked livid. 

“It’s Peeves, Professor,” Filch whispered malevolently. 
“He threw this egg down the stairs.” 

Snape climbed up the stairs quickly and stopped 
beside Filch. Harry gritted his teeth, convinced his 
loudly thumping heart would give him away at any 
second. ... 

“Peeves?” said Snape softly, staring at the egg in 
Filch’s hands. “But Peeves couldn’t get into my office. 



“This egg was in your office, Professor?” 

“Of course not,” Snape snapped. “I heard banging and 
wailing — ” 

“Yes, Professor, that was the egg — ” 

“ — I was coming to investigate — ” 

Page | 518 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“ — Peeves threw it, Professor — ” 

“ — and when I passed my office, I saw that the 
torches were lit and a cupboard door was ajar! 
Somebody has been searching it!” 

“But Peeves couldn’t — ” 

“I know he couldn’t, Filch!” Snape snapped again. “I 
seal my office with a spell none but a wizard could 
break!” Snape looked up the stairs, straight through 
Harry, and then down into the corridor below. “I want 
you to come and help me search for the intruder, 
Filch.” 

“I — yes, Professor — but — ” 

Filch looked yearningly up the stairs, right through 
Harry, who could see that he was very reluctant to 
forgo the chance of cornering Peeves. Go, Harry 
pleaded with him silently, go with Snape ... go ... Mrs. 
Norris was peering around Filch ’s legs. ... Harry had 
the distinct impression that she could smell him. ... 
Why had he filled that bath with so much perfumed 
foam? 

“The thing is, Professor,” said Filch plaintively, “the 
headmaster will have to listen to me this time. Peeves 
has been stealing from a student, it might be my 
chance to get him thrown out of the castle once and 
for all — ” 

“Filch, I don’t give a damn about that wretched 
poltergeist; it’s my office that’s — ” 

Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. 

Snape stopped talking very abruptly. He and Filch 
both looked down at the foot of the stairs. Harry saw 

Page | 519 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 
