
Yes, that would be Hermione’s advice: Go straight to 
the headmaster of Hogwarts, and in the meantime, 
consult a book. Harry stared out of the window at the 
inky blue-black sky. He doubted very much whether a 
book could help him now. As far as he knew, he was 
the only living person to have survived a curse like 
Voldemort’s; it was highly unlikely, therefore, that he 
would find his symptoms listed in Common Magical 
Ailments and Afflictions. As for informing the 
headmaster, Harry had no idea where Dumbledore 
went during the summer holidays. He amused himself 
for a moment, picturing Dumbledore, with his long 
silver beard, full-length wizard’s robes, and pointed 
hat, stretched out on a beach somewhere, rubbing 
suntan lotion onto his long crooked nose. Wherever 
Dumbledore was, though, Harry was sure that 
Hedwig would be able to find him; Harry’s owl had 
never yet failed to deliver a letter to anyone, even 
without an address. But what would he write? 

Dear Professor Dumbledore, Sorry to bother you, but 
my scar hurt this morning. Yours sincerely, Harry 
Potter. 



Page | 23 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Even inside his head the words sounded stupid. 

And so he tried to imagine his other best friend, Ron 
Weasley’s, reaction, and in a moment, Ron’s red hair 
and long-nosed, freckled face seemed to swim before 
Harry, wearing a bemused expression. 

“ Your scar hurt? But ... but You-Knotu-Who can’t be 
near you now, can he? I mean ... you’d know, wouldn’t 
you? He’d be trying to do you in again, wouldn’t he? I 
dunno, Harry, maybe curse scars always twinge a bit 
... I’ll ask Dad. ...” 

Mr. Weasley was a fully qualified wizard who worked 
in the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the 
Ministry of Magic, but he didn’t have any particular 
expertise in the matter of curses, as far as Harry 
knew. In any case, Harry didn’t like the idea of the 
whole Weasley family knowing that he, Harry, was 
getting jumpy about a few moments’ pain. Mrs. 
Weasley would fuss worse than Hermione, and Fred 
and George, Ron’s sixteen-year-old twin brothers, 
might think Harry was losing his nerve. The Weasleys 
were Harry’s favorite family in the world; he was 
hoping that they might invite him to stay any time 
now (Ron had mentioned something about the 
Quidditch World Cup), and he somehow didn’t want 
his visit punctuated with anxious inquiries about his 
scar. 

Harry kneaded his forehead with his knuckles. What 
he really wanted (and it felt almost shameful to admit 
it to himself) was someone like — someone like a 
parent: an adult wizard whose advice he could ask 
without feeling stupid, someone who cared about 
him, who had had experience with Dark Magic. ... 



Page | 24 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And then the solution came to him. It was so simple, 
and so obvious, that he couldn’t believe it had taken 
so long — Sirius. 

Harry leapt up from the bed, hurried across the room, 
and sat down at his desk; he pulled a piece of 
parchment toward him, loaded his eagle-feather quill 
with ink, wrote Dear Sirius, then paused, wondering 
how best to phrase his problem, still marveling at the 
fact that he hadn’t thought of Sirius straight away. 

But then, perhaps it wasn’t so surprising — after all, 
he had only found out that Sirius was his godfather 
two months ago. 

There was a simple reason for Sirius’s complete 
absence from Harry’s life until then — Sirius had 
been in Azkaban, the terrifying wizard jail guarded by 
creatures called dementors, sightless, soul-sucking 
fiends who had come to search for Sirius at Hogwarts 
when he had escaped. Yet Sirius had been innocent 
— the murders for which he had been convicted had 
been committed by Wormtail, Voldemort’s supporter, 
whom nearly everybody now believed dead. Harry, 

Ron, and Hermione knew otherwise, however; they 
had come face-to-face with Wormtail only the 
previous year, though only Professor Dumbledore had 
believed their story. 

For one glorious hour, Harry had believed that he was 
leaving the Dursleys at last, because Sirius had 
offered him a home once his name had been cleared. 
But the chance had been snatched away from him — 
Wormtail had escaped before they could take him to 
the Ministry of Magic, and Sirius had had to flee for 
his life. Harry had helped him escape on the back of a 
hippogriff called Buckbeak, and since then, Sirius 
had been on the run. The home Harry might have had 
if Wormtail had not escaped had been haunting him 
all summer. It had been doubly hard to return to the 
Page | 25 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dursleys knowing that he had so nearly escaped them 
forever. 

Nevertheless, Sirius had been of some help to Harry, 
even if he couldn’t be with him. It was due to Sirius 
that Harry now had all his school things in his 
bedroom with him. The Dursleys had never allowed 
this before; their general wish of keeping Harry as 
miserable as possible, coupled with their fear of his 
powers, had led them to lock his school trunk in the 
cupboard under the stairs every summer prior to this. 
But their attitude had changed since they had found 
out that Harry had a dangerous murderer for a 
godfather — for Harry had conveniently forgotten to 
tell them that Sirius was innocent. 

Harry had received two letters from Sirius since he 
had been back at Privet Drive. Both had been 
delivered, not by owls (as was usual with wizards), 
but by large, brightly colored tropical birds. Hedwig 
had not approved of these flashy intruders; she had 
been most reluctant to allow them to drink from her 
water tray before flying off again. Harry, on the other 
hand, had liked them; they put him in mind of palm 
trees and white sand, and he hoped that, wherever 
Sirius was (Sirius never said, in case the letters were 
intercepted), he was enjoying himself. Somehow, 

Harry found it hard to imagine dementors surviving 
for long in bright sunlight; perhaps that was why 
Sirius had gone south. Sirius’s letters, which were 
now hidden beneath the highly useful loose 
floorboard under Harry’s bed, sounded cheerful, and 
in both of them he had reminded Harry to call on him 
if ever Harry needed to. Well, he needed to now, all 
right. ... 

Harry’s lamp seemed to grow dimmer as the cold gray 
light that precedes sunrise slowly crept into the room. 
Finally, when the sun had risen, when his bedroom 

Page | 26 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




walls had turned gold, and when sounds of movement 
could be heard from Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia’s 
room, Harry cleared his desk of crumpled pieces of 
parchment and reread his finished letter. 

Dear Sirius, 

Thanks for your last letter. That bird was enormous; it 
could hardly get through my window. 

Things are the same as usual here. Dudley’s diet isn’t 
going too well. My aunt found him smuggling 
doughnuts into his room yesterday. They told him 
they ’d have to cut his pocket money if he keeps doing 
it, so he got really angry and chucked his PlayStation 
out of the window. That’s a sort of computer thing you 
can play games on. Bit stupid really, now he hasn’t 
even got Mega-Mutilation Part Three to take his mind 
off things. 

I’m okay, mainly because the Dursleys are terrified 
you might turn up and turn them all into bats if I ask 
you to. 

A weird thing happened this morning, though. My scar 
hurt again. Last time that happened it was because 
Voldemort was at Hogwarts. But I don’t reckon he can 
be anywhere near me now, can he? Do you know if 
curse scars sometimes hurt years afterward? 

I’ll send this with Hedwig when she gets back; she’s 
offhunt-\ing at the moment. Say hello to Buckbeak for 
me. 

Harry 

Yes, thought Harry, that looked all right. There was 
no point putting in the dream; he didn’t want it to 
look as though he was too worried. He folded up the 

Page | 27 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




parchment and laid it aside on his desk, ready for 
when Hedwig returned. Then he got to his feet, 
stretched, and opened his wardrobe once more. 
Without glancing at his reflection, he started to get 
dressed before going down to breakfast. 



Page | 28 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




3 




THE INVITATION 

By the time Harry arrived in the kitchen, the three 
Dursleys were already seated around the table. None 
of them looked up as he entered or sat down. Uncle 
Vernon’s large red face was hidden behind the 
morning’s Daily Mail, and Aunt Petunia was cutting a 
grapefruit into quarters, her lips pursed over her 
horselike teeth. 

Dudley looked furious and sulky, and somehow 
seemed to be taking up even more space than usual. 
This was saying something, as he always took up an 
entire side of the square table by himself. When Aunt 
Petunia put a quarter of unsweetened grapefruit onto 
Dudley’s plate with a tremulous “There you are, Diddy 
darling,” Dudley glowered at her. His life had taken a 
most unpleasant turn since he had come home for 
the summer with his end-of-year report. 

Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia had managed to find 
excuses for his bad marks as usual: Aunt Petunia 
always insisted that Dudley was a very gifted boy 
whose teachers didn’t understand him, while Uncle 

Page | 29 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



Vernon maintained that “he didn’t want some swotty 
little nancy boy for a son anyway.” They also skated 
over the accusations of bullying in the report — “He’s 
a boisterous little boy, but he wouldn’t hurt a fly!” 
Aunt Petunia had said tearfully. 

However, at the bottom of the report there were a few 
well-chosen comments from the school nurse that not 
even Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia could explain 
away. No matter how much Aunt Petunia wailed that 
Dudley was big-boned, and that his poundage was 
really puppy fat, and that he was a growing boy who 
needed plenty of food, the fact remained that the 
school outfitters didn’t stock knickerbockers big 
enough for him anymore. The school nurse had seen 
what Aunt Petunia’s eyes — so sharp when it came to 
spotting fingerprints on her gleaming walls, and in 
observing the comings and goings of the neighbors — 
simply refused to see: that far from needing extra 
nourishment, Dudley had reached roughly the size 
and weight of a young killer whale. 

So — after many tantrums, after arguments that 
shook Harry’s bedroom floor, and many tears from 
Aunt Petunia — the new regime had begun. The diet 
sheet that had been sent by the Smeltings school 
nurse had been taped to the fridge, which had been 
emptied of all Dudley’s favorite things — fizzy drinks 
and cakes, chocolate bars and burgers — and filled 
instead with fruit and vegetables and the sorts of 
things that Uncle Vernon called “rabbit food.” To 
make Dudley feel better about it all, Aunt Petunia had 
insisted that the whole family follow the diet too. She 
now passed a grapefruit quarter to Harry. He noticed 
that it was a lot smaller than Dudley’s. Aunt Petunia 
seemed to feel that the best way to keep up Dudley’s 
morale was to make sure that he did, at least, get 
more to eat than Harry. 



Page | 30 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But Aunt Petunia didn’t know what was hidden under 
the loose floorboard upstairs. She had no idea that 
Harry was not following the diet at all. The moment 
he had got wind of the fact that he was expected to 
survive the summer on carrot sticks, Harry had sent 
Hedwig to his friends with pleas for help, and they 
had risen to the occasion magnificently. Hedwig had 
returned from Hermione’s house with a large box 
stuffed full of sugar-free snacks. (Hermione’s parents 
were dentists.) Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had 
obliged with a sack full of his own homemade rock 
cakes. (Harry hadn’t touched these; he had had too 
much experience of Hagrid ’s cooking.) Mrs. Weasley, 
however, had sent the family owl, Errol, with an 
enormous fruitcake and assorted meat pies. Poor 
Errol, who was elderly and feeble, had needed a full 
five days to recover from the journey. And then on 
Harry’s birthday (which the Dursleys had completely 
ignored) he had received four superb birthday cakes, 
one each from Ron, Hermione, Hagrid, and Sirius. 
Harry still had two of them left, and so, looking 
forward to a real breakfast when he got back upstairs, 
he ate his grapefruit without complaint. 

Uncle Vernon laid aside his paper with a deep sniff of 
disapproval and looked down at his own grapefruit 
quarter. 

“Is this it?” he said grumpily to Aunt Petunia. 

Aunt Petunia gave him a severe look, and then 
nodded pointedly at Dudley, who had already finished 
his own grapefruit quarter and was eyeing Harry’s 
with a very sour look in his piggy little eyes. 

Uncle Vernon gave a great sigh, which ruffled his 
large, bushy mustache, and picked up his spoon. 



Page | 31 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The doorbell rang. Uncle Vernon heaved himself out 
of his chair and set off down the hall. Quick as a 
flash, while his mother was occupied with the kettle, 
Dudley stole the rest of Uncle Vernon’s grapefruit. 

Harry heard talking at the door, and someone 
laughing, and Uncle Vernon answering curtly. Then 
the front door closed, and the sound of ripping paper 
came from the hall. 

Aunt Petunia set the teapot down on the table and 
looked curiously around to see where Uncle Vernon 
had got to. She didn’t have to wait long to find out; 
after about a minute, he was back. He looked livid. 

“You,” he barked at Harry. “In the living room. Now.” 

Bewildered, wondering what on earth he was 
supposed to have done this time, Harry got up and 
followed Uncle Vernon out of the kitchen and into the 
next room. Uncle Vernon closed the door sharply 
behind both of them. 

“So,” he said, marching over to the fireplace and 
turning to face Harry as though he were about to 
pronounce him under arrest. “So.” 

Harry would have dearly loved to have said, “So 
what?” but he didn’t feel that Uncle Vernon’s temper 
should be tested this early in the morning, especially 
when it was already under severe strain from lack of 
food. He therefore settled for looking politely puzzled. 

“This just arrived,” said Uncle Vernon. He brandished 
a piece of purple writing paper at Harry. “A letter. 
About you.” 



Page | 32 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s confusion increased. Who would be writing to 
Uncle Vernon about him? Who did he know who sent 
letters by the postman? 

Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, then looked down at 
the letter and began to read aloud: 

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, 

We have never been introduced, but I am sure you 
have heard a great deal from Harry about my son Ron. 

As Harry might have told you, the final of the 
Quidditch World Cup takes place this Monday night, 
and my husband, Arthur, has just managed to get 
prime tickets through his connections at the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports. 

I do hope you will allow us to take Harry to the match, 
as this really is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity; Britain 
hasn’t hosted the cup for thirty years, and tickets are 
extremely hard to come by. We would of course be glad 
to have Harry stay for the remainder of the summer 
holidays, and to see him safely onto the train back to 
school. 

It would be best for Harry to send us your answer as 
quickly as possible in the normal way, because the 
Muggle postman has never delivered to our house, and 
I am not sure he even knows where it is. 

Hoping to see Harry soon, 

Yours sincerely, 

Molly Weasley 

P.S. I do hope we’ve put enough stamps on. 



Page | 33 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Uncle Vernon finished reading, put his hand back 
into his breast pocket, and drew out something else. 

“Look at this,” he growled. 

He held up the envelope in which Mrs. Weasley’s 
letter had come, and Harry had to fight down a laugh. 
Every bit of it was covered in stamps except for a 
square inch on the front, into which Mrs. Weasley 
had squeezed the Dursleys’ address in minute 
writing. 

“She did put enough stamps on, then,” said Harry, 
trying to sound as though Mrs. Weasley’s was a 
mistake anyone could make. His uncle’s eyes flashed. 

“The postman noticed,” he said through gritted teeth. 
“Very interested to know where this letter came from, 
he was. That’s why he rang the doorbell. Seemed to 
think it was funny.” 

Harry didn’t say anything. Other people might not 
understand why Uncle Vernon was making a fuss 
about too many stamps, but Harry had lived with the 
Dursleys too long not to know how touchy they were 
about anything even slightly out of the ordinary. Their 
worst fear was that someone would find out that they 
were connected (however distantly) with people like 
Mrs. Weasley. 

Uncle Vernon was still glaring at Harry, who tried to 
keep his expression neutral. If he didn’t do or say 
anything stupid, he might just be in for the treat of a 
lifetime. He waited for Uncle Vernon to say 
something, but he merely continued to glare. Harry 
decided to break the silence. 

“So — can I go then?” he asked. 



Page | 34 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




A slight spasm crossed Uncle Vernon’s large purple 
face. The mustache bristled. Harry thought he knew 
what was going on behind the mustache: a furious 
battle as two of Uncle Vernon’s most fundamental 
instincts came into conflict. Allowing Harry to go 
would make Harry happy, something Uncle Vernon 
had struggled against for thirteen years. On the other 
hand, allowing Harry to disappear to the Weasleys’ for 
the rest of the summer would get rid of him two 
weeks earlier than anyone could have hoped, and 
Uncle Vernon hated having Harry in the house. To 
give himself thinking time, it seemed, he looked down 
at Mrs. Weasley’s letter again. 

“Who is this woman?” he said, staring at the 
signature with distaste. 

“You’ve seen her,” said Harry. “She’s my friend Ron’s 
mother, she was meeting him off the Hog — off the 
school train at the end of last term.” 

He had almost said “Hogwarts Express,” and that was 
a sure way to get his uncle’s temper up. Nobody ever 
mentioned the name of Harry’s school aloud in the 
Dursley household. 

Uncle Vernon screwed up his enormous face as 
though trying to remember something very 
unpleasant. 

“Dumpy sort of woman?” he growled finally. “Load of 
children with red hair?” 

Harry frowned. He thought it was a bit rich of Uncle 
Vernon to call anyone “dumpy,” when his own son, 
Dudley, had finally achieved what he’d been 
threatening to do since the age of three, and become 
wider than he was tall. 



Page | 35 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Uncle Vernon was perusing the letter again. 

“Quidditch,” he muttered under his breath. 

“Quidditch — what is this rubbish?” 

Harry felt a second stab of annoyance. 

“It’s a sport,” he said shortly. “Played on broom — ” 

“All right, all right!” said Uncle Vernon loudly. Harry 
saw, with some satisfaction, that his uncle looked 
vaguely panicky. Apparently his nerves couldn’t stand 
the sound of the word “broomsticks” in his living 
room. He took refuge in perusing the letter again. 
Harry saw his lips form the words “send us your 
answer ... in the normal way.” He scowled. 

“What does she mean, ‘the normal way’?” he spat. 

“Normal for us,” said Harry, and before his uncle 
could stop him, he added, “you know, owl post. That’s 
what’s normal for wizards.” 

Uncle Vernon looked as outraged as if Harry had just 
uttered a disgusting swear word. Shaking with anger, 
he shot a nervous look through the window, as 
though expecting to see some of the neighbors with 
their ears pressed against the glass. 

“How many times do I have to tell you not to mention 
that unnaturalness under my roof?” he hissed, his 
face now a rich plum color. “You stand there, in the 
clothes Petunia and I have put on your ungrateful 
back — ” 

“Only after Dudley finished with them,” said Harry 
coldly, and indeed, he was dressed in a sweatshirt so 
large for him that he had had to roll back the sleeves 



Page | 36 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




five times so as to be able to use his hands, and 
which fell past the knees of his extremely baggy jeans. 



“I will not be spoken to like that!” said Uncle Vernon, 
trembling with rage. 

But Harry wasn’t going to stand for this. Gone were 
the days when he had been forced to take every single 
one of the Dursleys’ stupid rules. He wasn’t following 
Dudley’s diet, and he wasn’t going to let Uncle Vernon 
stop him from going to the Quidditch World Cup, not 
if he could help it. Harry took a deep, steadying 
breath and then said, “Okay, I can’t see the World 
Cup. Can I go now, then? Only I’ve got a letter to 
Sirius I want to finish. You know — my godfather.” 

He had done it. He had said the magic words. Now he 
watched the purple recede blotchily from Uncle 
Vernon’s face, making it look like badly mixed black 
currant ice cream. 

“You’re — you’re writing to him, are you?” said Uncle 
Vernon, in a would-be calm voice — but Harry had 
seen the pupils of his tiny eyes contract with sudden 
fear. 

“Well — yeah,” said Harry, casually. “It’s been a while 
since he heard from me, and, you know, if he doesn’t, 
he might start thinking something’s wrong.” 

He stopped there to enjoy the effect of these words. 

He could almost see the cogs working under Uncle 
Vernon’s thick, dark, neatly parted hair. If he tried to 
stop Harry writing to Sirius, Sirius would think Harry 
was being mistreated. If he told Harry he couldn’t go 
to the Quidditch World Cup, Harry would write and 
tell Sirius, who would know Harry was being 
mistreated. There was only one thing for Uncle 
Vernon to do. Harry could see the conclusion forming 
Page | 37 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




in his uncle’s mind as though the great mustached 
face were transparent. Harry tried not to smile, to 
keep his own face as blank as possible. And then — 

“Well, all right then. You can go to this ruddy ... this 
stupid ... this World Cup thing. You write and tell 
these — these Weasleys they’re to pick you up, mind. 
I haven’t got time to go dropping you off all over the 
country. And you can spend the rest of the summer 
there. And you can tell your — your godfather ... tell 
him ... tell him you’re going.” 

“Okay then,” said Harry brightly. 

He turned and walked toward the living room door, 
fighting the urge to jump into the air and whoop. He 
was going ... he was going to the Weasleys’, he was 
going to watch the Quidditch World Cup! 

Outside in the hall he nearly ran into Dudley, who 
had been lurking behind the door, clearly hoping to 
overhear Harry being told off. He looked shocked to 
see the broad grin on Harry’s face. 

“That was an excellent breakfast, wasn’t it?” said 
Harry. “I feel really full, don’t you?” 

Laughing at the astonished look on Dudley’s face, 
Harry took the stairs three at a time, and hurled 
himself back into his bedroom. 

The first thing he saw was that Hedwig was back. She 
was sitting in her cage, staring at Harry with her 
enormous amber eyes, and clicking her beak in the 
way that meant she was annoyed about something. 
Exactly what was annoying her became apparent 
almost at once. 



Page | 38 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“OUCH!” said Harry as what appeared to be a small, 
gray, feathery tennis ball collided with the side of his 
head. Harry massaged the spot furiously, looking up 
to see what had hit him, and saw a minute owl, small 
enough to fit into the palm of his hand, whizzing 
excitedly around the room like a loose firework. Harry 
then realized that the owl had dropped a letter at his 
feet. Harry bent down, recognized Ron’s handwriting, 
then tore open the envelope. Inside was a hastily 
scribbled note. 

Harry — DAD GOT THE TICKETS — Ireland versus 
Bulgaria, Monday night. Mum’s writing to the Muggles 
to ask you to stay. They might already have the letter, 

I don’t know how fast Muggle post is. Thought I’d send 
this with Pig anyway. 

Harry stared at the word “Pig,” then looked up at the 
tiny owl now zooming around the light fixture on the 
ceiling. He had never seen anything that looked less 
like a pig. Maybe he couldn’t read Ron’s writing. He 
went back to the letter: 

We’re coming for you whether the Muggles like it or 
not, you can’t miss the World Cup, only Mum and Dad 
reckon it’s better if we pretend to ask their permission 
first. If they say yes, send Pig back with your answer 
pronto, and we’ll come and get you at five o’clock on 
Sunday. If they say no, send Pig back pronto and we’ll 
come and get you at five o’clock on Sunday anyway. 

Hermione’s arriving this afternoon. Percy’s started 
work — the Department of International Magical 
Cooperation. Don’t mention anything about Abroad 
while you’re here unless you want the pants bored off 
you. 

See you soon — 



Page | 39 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Ron 



“Calm down!” Harry said as the small owl flew low 
over his head, twittering madly with what Harry could 
only assume was pride at having delivered the letter 
to the right person. “Come here, I need you to take my 
answer back!” 

The owl fluttered down on top of Hedwig’s cage. 
Hedwig looked coldly up at it, as though daring it to 
try and come any closer. 

Harry seized his eagle-feather quill once more, 
grabbed a fresh piece of parchment, and wrote: 

Ron, it’s all okay, the Muggles say I can come. See you 
five o’clock tomorrow. Can’t wait. 

Harry 

He folded this note up very small, and with immense 
difficulty, tied it to the tiny owl’s leg as it hopped on 
the spot with excitement. The moment the note was 
secure, the owl was off again; it zoomed out of the 
window and out of sight. 

Harry turned to Hedwig. 

“Feeling up to a long journey?” he asked her. 

Hedwig hooted in a dignified sort of a way. 

“Can you take this to Sirius for me?” he said, picking 
up his letter. “Hang on ... I just want to finish it.” 

He unfolded the parchment and hastily added a 
postscript. 



Page | 40 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




If you want to contact me, I’ll be at my friend Ron 
Weasley’s for the rest of the summer. His dad’s got us 
tickets for the Quidditch World Cup\ 

The letter finished, he tied it to Hedwig’s leg; she kept 
unusually still, as though determined to show him 
how a real post owl should behave. 

“I’ll be at Ron’s when you get back, all right?” Harry 
told her. 

She nipped his finger affectionately, then, with a soft 
swooshing noise, spread her enormous wings and 
soared out of the open window. 

Harry watched her out of sight, then crawled under 
his bed, wrenched up the loose floorboard, and pulled 
out a large chunk of birthday cake. He sat there on 
the floor eating it, savoring the happiness that was 
flooding through him. He had cake, and Dudley had 
nothing but grapefruit; it was a bright summer’s day, 
he would be leaving Privet Drive tomorrow, his scar 
felt perfectly normal again, and he was going to watch 
the Quidditch World Cup. It was hard, just now, to 
feel worried about anything — even Lord Voldemort. 



Page | 41 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






BACK TO THE BURROW 

By twelve o’clock the next day, Harry’s school trunk 
was packed with his school things and all his most 
prized possessions — the Invisibility Cloak he had 
inherited from his father, the broomstick he had 
gotten from Sirius, the enchanted map of Hogwarts he 
had been given by Fred and George Weasley last year. 
He had emptied his hiding place under the loose 
floorboard of all food, double-checked every nook and 
cranny of his bedroom for forgotten spellbooks or 
quills, and taken down the chart on the wall counting 
down the days to September the first, on which he 
liked to cross off the days remaining until his return 
to Hogwarts. 

The atmosphere inside number four, Privet Drive was 
extremely tense. The imminent arrival at their house 
of an assortment of wizards was making the Dursleys 
uptight and irritable. Uncle Vernon had looked 
downright alarmed when Harry informed him that the 
Weasley s would be arriving at five o’clock the very 
next day. 



Page | 42 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“I hope you told them to dress properly, these people,” 
he snarled at once. “I’ve seen the sort of stuff your lot 
wear. They’d better have the decency to put on 
normal clothes, that’s all.” 

Harry felt a slight sense of foreboding. He had rarely 
seen Mr. or Mrs. Weasley wearing anything that the 
Dursleys would call “normal.” Their children might 
don Muggle clothing during the holidays, but Mr. and 
Mrs. Weasley usually wore long robes in varying 
states of shabbiness. Harry wasn’t bothered about 
what the neighbors would think, but he was anxious 
about how rude the Dursleys might be to the 
Weasleys if they turned up looking like their worst 
idea of wizards. 

Uncle Vernon had put on his best suit. To some 
people, this might have looked like a gesture of 
welcome, but Harry knew it was because Uncle 
Vernon wanted to look impressive and intimidating. 
Dudley, on the other hand, looked somehow 
diminished. This was not because the diet was at last 
taking effect, but due to fright. Dudley had emerged 
from his last encounter with a fully-grown wizard with 
a curly pig’s tail poking out of the seat of his trousers, 
and Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon had had to pay 
for its removal at a private hospital in London. It 
wasn’t altogether surprising, therefore, that Dudley 
kept running his hand nervously over his backside, 
and walking sideways from room to room, so as not to 
present the same target to the enemy. 

Lunch was an almost silent meal. Dudley didn’t even 
protest at the food (cottage cheese and grated celery). 
Aunt Petunia wasn’t eating anything at all. Her arms 
were folded, her lips were pursed, and she seemed to 
be chewing her tongue, as though biting back the 
furious diatribe she longed to throw at Harry. 



Page | 43 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They’ll be driving, of course?” Uncle Vernon barked 
across the table. 

“Er,” said Harry. 

He hadn’t thought of that. How were the Weasleys 
going to pick him up? They didn’t have a car 
anymore; the old Ford Anglia they had once owned 
was currently running wild in the Forbidden Forest at 
Hogwarts. But Mr. Weasley had borrowed a Ministry 
of Magic car last year; possibly he would do the same 
today? 

“I think so,” said Harry. 

Uncle Vernon snorted into his mustache. Normally, 
Uncle Vernon would have asked what car Mr. Weasley 
drove; he tended to judge other men by how big and 
expensive their cars were. But Harry doubted whether 
Uncle Vernon would have taken to Mr. Weasley even 
if he drove a Ferrari. 

Harry spent most of the afternoon in his bedroom; he 
couldn’t stand watching Aunt Petunia peer out 
through the net curtains every few seconds, as 
though there had been a warning about an escaped 
rhinoceros. Finally, at a quarter to five, Harry went 
back downstairs and into the living room. 

Aunt Petunia was compulsively straightening 
cushions. Uncle Vernon was pretending to read the 
paper, but his tiny eyes were not moving, and Harry 
was sure he was really listening with all his might for 
the sound of an approaching car. Dudley was 
crammed into an armchair, his porky hands beneath 
him, clamped firmly around his bottom. Harry 
couldn’t take the tension; he left the room and went 
and sat on the stairs in the hall, his eyes on his 



Page | 44 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




watch and his heart pumping fast from excitement 
and nerves. 

But five o’clock came and then went. Uncle Vernon, 
perspiring slightly in his suit, opened the front door, 
peered up and down the street, then withdrew his 
head quickly. 

“They’re late!” he snarled at Harry. 
