have discovered that you’ve been keeping certain facts 
about the boy very quiet? A Parselmouth, eh? And 
having funny turns all over the place — ” 

“I assume that you are referring to the pains Harry 
has been experiencing in his scar?” said Dumbledore 
coolly. 

“You admit that he has been having these pains, 
then?” said Fudge quickly. “Headaches? Nightmares? 
Possibly — hallucinations?” 

“Listen to me, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, taking a 
step toward Fudge, and once again, he seemed to 
radiate that indefinable sense of power that Harry 
had felt after Dumbledore had Stunned young 
Crouch. “Harry is as sane as you or I. That scar upon 
his forehead has not addled his brains. I believe it 
hurts him when Lord Voldemort is close by, or feeling 
particularly murderous.” 

Fudge had taken half a step back from Dumbledore, 
but he looked no less stubborn. 

“You’ll forgive me, Dumbledore, but I’ve never heard 
of a curse scar acting as an alarm bell before. ...” 

“Look, I saw Voldemort come back!” Harry shouted. 

He tried to get out of bed again, but Mrs. Weasley 

Page | 779 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




forced him back. “I saw the Death Eaters! I can give 
you their names! Lucius Malfoy — ” 

Snape made a sudden movement, but as Harry 
looked at him, Snape’s eyes flew back to Fudge. 

“Malfoy was cleared!” said Fudge, visibly affronted. “A 
very old family — donations to excellent causes — ” 

“Macnair!” Harry continued. 

“Also cleared! Now working for the Ministry!” 

“Avery — Nott — Crabbe — Goyle — ” 

“You are merely repeating the names of those who 
were acquitted of being Death Eaters thirteen years 
ago!” said Fudge angrily. “You could have found those 
names in old reports of the trials! For heaven’s sake, 
Dumbledore — the boy was full of some crackpot 
story at the end of last year too — his tales are getting 
taller, and you’re still swallowing them — the boy can 
talk to snakes, Dumbledore, and you still think he’s 
trustworthy?” 

“You fool!” Professor McGonagall cried. “Cedric 
Diggory! Mr. Crouch! These deaths were not the 
random work of a lunatic!” 

“I see no evidence to the contrary!” shouted Fudge, 
now matching her anger, his face purpling. “It seems 
to me that you are all determined to start a panic that 
will destabilize everything we have worked for these 
last thirteen years!” 

Harry couldn’t believe what he was hearing. He had 
always thought of Fudge as a kindly figure, a little 
blustering, a little pompous, but essentially good- 
natured. But now a short, angry wizard stood before 

Page | 780 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




him, refusing, point-blank, to accept the prospect of 
disruption in his comfortable and ordered world — to 
believe that Voldemort could have risen. 

“Voldemort has returned,” Dumbledore repeated. “If 
you accept that fact straightaway, Fudge, and take 
the necessary measures, we may still be able to save 
the situation. The first and most essential step is to 
remove Azkaban from the control of the dementors — ” 

“Preposterous!” shouted Fudge again. “Remove the 
dementors? I’d be kicked out of office for suggesting 
it! Half of us only feel safe in our beds at night 
because we know the dementors are standing guard 
at Azkaban!” 

“The rest of us sleep less soundly in our beds, 
Cornelius, knowing that you have put Lord 
Voldemort ’s most dangerous supporters in the care of 
creatures who will join him the instant he asks them!” 
said Dumbledore. “They will not remain loyal to you, 
Fudge! Voldemort can offer them much more scope 
for their powers and their pleasures than you can! 
With the dementors behind him, and his old 
supporters returned to him, you will be hard-pressed 
to stop him regaining the sort of power he had 
thirteen years ago!” 

Fudge was opening and closing his mouth as though 
no words could express his outrage. 

“The second step you must take — and at once,” 
Dumbledore pressed on, “is to send envoys to the 
giants.” 

“Envoys to the giants?” Fudge shrieked, finding his 
tongue again. “What madness is this?” 



Page | 781 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Extend them the hand of friendship, now, before it is 
too late,” said Dumbledore, “or Voldemort will 
persuade them, as he did before, that he alone among 
wizards will give them their rights and their freedom!” 

“You — you cannot be serious!” Fudge gasped, 
shaking his head and retreating further from 
Dumbledore. “If the magical community got wind that 
I had approached the giants — people hate them, 
Dumbledore — end of my career — ” 

“You are blinded,” said Dumbledore, his voice rising 
now, the aura of power around him palpable, his eyes 
blazing once more, “by the love of the office you hold, 
Cornelius! You place too much importance, and you 
always have done, on the so-called purity of blood! 

You fail to recognize that it matters not what someone 
is born, but what they grow to be! Your dementor has 
just destroyed the last remaining member of a pure- 
blood family as old as any — and see what that man 
chose to make of his life! I tell you now — take the 
steps I have suggested, and you will be remembered, 
in office or out, as one of the bravest and greatest 
Ministers of Magic we have ever known. Fail to act — 
and history will remember you as the man who 
stepped aside and allowed Voldemort a second chance 
to destroy the world we have tried to rebuild!” 

“Insane,” whispered Fudge, still backing away. “Mad 



And then there was silence. Madam Pomfrey was 
standing frozen at the foot of Harry’s bed, her hands 
over her mouth. Mrs. Weasley was still standing over 
Harry, her hand on his shoulder to prevent him from 
rising. Bill, Ron, and Hermione were staring at Fudge. 

“If your determination to shut your eyes will carry you 
as far as this, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, “we have 

Page | 782 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




reached a parting of the ways. You must act as you 
see fit. And I — I shall act as I see fit.” 

Dumbledore ’s voice carried no hint of a threat; it 
sounded like a mere statement, but Fudge bristled as 
though Dumbledore were advancing upon him with a 
wand. 

“Now, see here, Dumbledore,” he said, waving a 
threatening finger. “I’ve given you free rein, always. 

I’ve had a lot of respect for you. I might not have 
agreed with some of your decisions, but I’ve kept 
quiet. There aren’t many who’d have let you hire 
werewolves, or keep Hagrid, or decide what to teach 
your students without reference to the Ministry. But if 
you’re going to work against me — ” 

“The only one against whom I intend to work,” said 
Dumbledore, “is Lord Voldemort. If you are against 
him, then we remain, Cornelius, on the same side.” 

It seemed Fudge could think of no answer to this. He 
rocked backward and forward on his small feet for a 
moment and spun his bowler hat in his hands. 

Finally, he said, with a hint of a plea in his voice, “He 
can’t be back, Dumbledore, he just can’t be ...” 

Snape strode forward, past Dumbledore, pulling up 
the left sleeve of his robes as he went. He stuck out 
his forearm and showed it to Fudge, who recoiled. 

“There,” said Snape harshly. “There. The Dark Mark. 

It is not as clear as it was an hour or so ago, when it 
burned black, but you can still see it. Every Death 
Eater had the sign burned into him by the Dark Lord. 
It was a means of distinguishing one another, and his 
means of summoning us to him. When he touched 
the Mark of any Death Eater, we were to Disapparate, 
and Apparate, instantly, at his side. This Mark has 
Page | 783 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




been growing clearer all year. Karkaroff’s too. Why do 
you think Karkaroff fled tonight? We both felt the 
Mark burn. We both knew he had returned. Karkaroff 
fears the Dark Lord’s vengeance. He betrayed too 
many of his fellow Death Eaters to be sure of a 
welcome back into the fold.” 

Fudge stepped back from Snape too. He was shaking 
his head. He did not seem to have taken in a word 
Snape had said. He stared, apparently repelled by the 
ugly mark on Snape ’s arm, then looked up at 
Dumbledore and whispered, “I don’t know what you 
and your staff are playing at, Dumbledore, but I have 
heard enough. I have no more to add. I will be in 
touch with you tomorrow, Dumbledore, to discuss the 
running of this school. I must return to the Ministry.” 

He had almost reached the door when he paused. He 
turned around, strode back down the dormitory, and 
stopped at Harry’s bed. 

“Your winnings,” he said shortly, taking a large bag of 
gold out of his pocket and dropping it onto Harry’s 
bedside table. “One thousand Galleons. There should 
have been a presentation ceremony, but under the 
circumstances ...” 

He crammed his bowler hat onto his head and walked 
out of the room, slamming the door behind him. The 
moment he had disappeared, Dumbledore turned to 
look at the group around Harry’s bed. 

“There is work to be done,” he said. “Molly ... am I 
right in thinking that I can count on you and 
Arthur?” 

“Of course you can,” said Mrs. Weasley. She was 
white to the lips, but she looked resolute. “We know 
what Fudge is. It’s Arthur’s fondness for Muggles that 

Page | 784 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




has held him back at the Ministry all these years. 
Fudge thinks he lacks proper wizarding pride.” 

“Then I need to send a message to Arthur,” said 
Dumbledore. “All those that we can persuade of the 
truth must be notified immediately, and he is well 
placed to contact those at the Ministry who are not as 
shortsighted as Cornelius.” 

“Ill go to Dad,” said Bill, standing up. “Ill go now.” 

“Excellent,” said Dumbledore. “Tell him what has 
happened. Tell him I will be in direct contact with him 
shortly. He will need to be discreet, however. If Fudge 
thinks I am interfering at the Ministry — ” 

“Leave it to me,” said Bill. 

He clapped a hand on Harry’s shoulder, kissed his 
mother on the cheek, pulled on his cloak, and strode 
quickly from the room. 

“Minerva,” said Dumbledore, turning to Professor 
McGonagall, “I want to see Hagrid in my office as 
soon as possible. Also — if she will consent to come — 
Madame Maxime.” 

Professor McGonagall nodded and left without a word. 

“Poppy,” Dumbledore said to Madam Pomfrey, “would 
you be very kind and go down to Professor Moody’s 
office, where I think you will find a house-elf called 
Winky in considerable distress? Do what you can for 
her, and take her back to the kitchens. I think Dobby 
will look after her for us.” 

“Very — very well,” said Madam Pomfrey, looking 
startled, and she too left. 



Page | 785 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore made sure that the door was closed, and 
that Madam Pomfrey’s footsteps had died away, 
before he spoke again. 

“And now,” he said, “it is time for two of our number 
to recognize each other for what they are. Sirius ... if 
you could resume your usual form.” 

The great black dog looked up at Dumbledore, then, 
in an instant, turned back into a man. 

Mrs. Weasley screamed and leapt back from the bed. 

“Sirius Black!” she shrieked, pointing at him. 

“Mum, shut up!” Ron yelled. “It’s okay!” 

Snape had not yelled or jumped backward, but the 
look on his face was one of mingled fury and horror. 

“Him!” he snarled, staring at Sirius, whose face 
showed equal dislike. “What is he doing here?” 

“He is here at my invitation,” said Dumbledore, 
looking between them, “as are you, Severus. I trust 
you both. It is time for you to lay aside your old 
differences and trust each other.” 

Harry thought Dumbledore was asking for a near 
miracle. Sirius and Snape were eyeing each other 
with the utmost loathing. 

“I will settle, in the short term,” said Dumbledore, 
with a bite of impatience in his voice, “for a lack of 
open hostility. You will shake hands. You are on the 
same side now. Time is short, and unless the few of 
us who know the truth do not stand united, there is 
no hope for any of us.” 



Page | 786 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Very slowly — but still glaring at each other as 
though each wished the other nothing but ill — Sirius 
and Snape moved toward each other and shook 
hands. They let go extremely quickly. 

“That will do to be going on with,” said Dumbledore, 
stepping between them once more. “Now I have work 
for each of you. Fudge’s attitude, though not 
unexpected, changes everything. Sirius, I need you to 
set off at once. You are to alert Remus Lupin, Arabella 
Figg, Mundungus Fletcher — the old crowd. Lie low at 
Lupins for a while; I will contact you there.” 

“But — ” said Harry. 

He wanted Sirius to stay. He did not want to have to 
say goodbye again so quickly. 

“You’ll see me very soon, Harry,” said Sirius, turning 
to him. “I promise you. But I must do what I can, you 
understand, don’t you?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah ... of course I do.” 

Sirius grasped his hand briefly, nodded to 
Dumbledore, transformed again into the black dog, 
and ran the length of the room to the door, whose 
handle he turned with a paw. Then he was gone. 

“Severus,” said Dumbledore, turning to Snape, “you 
know what I must ask you to do. If you are ready ... if 
you are prepared ...” 

“I am,” said Snape. 

He looked slightly paler than usual, and his cold, 
black eyes glittered strangely. 



Page | 787 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Then good luck,” said Dumbledore, and he watched, 
with a trace of apprehension on his face, as Snape 
swept wordlessly after Sirius. 

It was several minutes before Dumbledore spoke 
again. 

“I must go downstairs,” he said finally. “I must see the 
Diggorys. Harry — take the rest of your potion. I will 
see all of you later.” 

Harry slumped back against his pillows as 
Dumbledore disappeared. Hermione, Ron, and Mrs. 
Weasley were all looking at him. None of them spoke 
for a very long time. 

“You’ve got to take the rest of your potion, Harry,” 

Mrs. Weasley said at last. Her hand nudged the sack 
of gold on his bedside cabinet as she reached for the 
bottle and the goblet. “You have a good long sleep. Try 
and think about something else for a while . . . think 
about what you’re going to buy with your winnings!” 

“I don’t want that gold,” said Harry in an 
expressionless voice. “You have it. Anyone can have 
it. I shouldn’t have won it. It should’ve been Cedric’s.” 

The thing against which he had been fighting on and 
off ever since he had come out of the maze was 
threatening to overpower him. He could feel a 
burning, prickling feeling in the inner corners of his 
eyes. He blinked and stared up at the ceiling. 

“It wasn’t your fault, Harry,” Mrs. Weasley whispered. 

“I told him to take the cup with me,” said Harry. 

Now the burning feeling was in his throat too. He 
wished Ron would look away. 

Page | 788 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley set the potion down on the bedside 
cabinet, bent down, and put her arms around Harry. 
He had no memory of ever being hugged like this, as 
though by a mother. The full weight of everything he 
had seen that night seemed to fall in upon him as 
Mrs. Weasley held him to her. His mother’s face, his 
father’s voice, the sight of Cedric, dead on the ground 
all started spinning in his head until he could hardly 
bear it, until he was screwing up his face against the 
howl of misery fighting to get out of him. 

There was a loud slamming noise, and Mrs. Weasley 
and Harry broke apart. Hermione was standing by the 
window. She was holding something tight in her 
hand. 

“Sorry,” she whispered. 

“Your potion, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley quickly, 
wiping her eyes on the back of her hand. 

Harry drank it in one gulp. The effect was 
instantaneous. Heavy, irresistible waves of dreamless 
sleep broke over him; he fell back onto his pillows and 
thought no more. 



Page | 789 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE BEGINNING 

When he looked back, even a month later, Harry 
found he had only scattered memories of the next few 
days. It was as though he had been through too much 
to take in any more. The recollections he did have 
were very painful. The worst, perhaps, was the 
meeting with the Diggorys that took place the 
following morning. 

They did not blame him for what had happened; on 
the contrary, both thanked him for returning Cedric’s 
body to them. Mr. Diggory sobbed through most of 
the interview. Mrs. Diggory ’s grief seemed to be 
beyond tears. 

“He suffered very little then,” she said, when Harry 
had told her how Cedric had died. “And after all, 

Amos ... he died just when he’d won the tournament. 
He must have been happy.” 

When they got to their feet, she looked down at Harry 
and said, “You look after yourself, now.” 

Page | 790 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



Harry seized the sack of gold on the bedside table. 

“You take this,” he muttered to her. “It should’ve been 
Cedric’s, he got there first, you take it — ” 

But she backed away from him. 

“Oh no, it’s yours, dear, I couldn’t ... you keep it.” 

Harry returned to Gryffindor Tower the following 
evening. From what Hermione and Ron told him, 
Dumbledore had spoken to the school that morning 
at breakfast. He had merely requested that they leave 
Harry alone, that nobody ask him questions or badger 
him to tell the story of what had happened in the 
maze. Most people, he noticed, were skirting him in 
the corridors, avoiding his eyes. Some whispered 
behind their hands as he passed. He guessed that 
many of them had believed Rita Skeeter’s article 
about how disturbed and possibly dangerous he was. 
Perhaps they were formulating their own theories 
about how Cedric had died. He found he didn’t care 
very much. He liked it best when he was with Ron 
and Hermione and they were talking about other 
things, or else letting him sit in silence while they 
played chess. He felt as though all three of them had 
reached an understanding they didn’t need to put 
into words; that each was waiting for some sign, some 
word, of what was going on outside Hogwarts — and 
that it was useless to speculate about what might be 
coming until they knew anything for certain. The only 
time they touched upon the subject was when Ron 
told Harry about a meeting Mrs. Weasley had had 
with Dumbledore before going home. 

“She went to ask him if you could come straight to us 
this summer,” he said. “But he wants you to go back 
to the Dursleys, at least at first.” 



Page | 791 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Why?” said Harry. 

“She said Dumbledore’s got his reasons,” said Ron, 
shaking his head darkly. “I suppose we’ve got to trust 
him, haven’t we?” 

The only person apart from Ron and Hermione that 
Harry felt able to talk to was Hagrid. As there was no 
longer a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, they 
had those lessons free. They used the one on 
Thursday afternoon to go down and visit Hagrid in his 
cabin. It was a bright and sunny day; Fang bounded 
out of the open door as they approached, barking and 
wagging his tail madly. 

“Who’s that?” called Hagrid, coming to the door. 

“ Harry\” 

He strode out to meet them, pulled Harry into a one- 
armed hug, ruffled his hair, and said, “Good ter see 
yeh, mate. Good ter see yeh.” 

They saw two bucket-size cups and saucers on the 
wooden table in front of the fireplace when they 
entered Hagrid ’s cabin. 

“Bin havin’ a cuppa with Olympe,” Hagrid said. “She’s 
jus’ left.” 

“Who?” said Ron curiously. 

“Madame Maxime, o’ course!” said Hagrid. 

“You two made up, have you?” said Ron. 

“Dunno what yeh’re talkin’ about,” said Hagrid airily, 
fetching more cups from the dresser. When he had 
made tea and offered around a plate of doughy 



Page | 792 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




cookies, he leaned back in his chair and surveyed 
Harry closely through his beetle-black eyes. 

“You all righ’?” he said gruffly. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“No, yeh’re not,” said Hagrid. “ ’Course yeh’re not. But 
yeh will be.” 

Harry said nothing. 

“Knew he was goin’ ter come back,” said Hagrid, and 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up at him, shocked. 
“Known it fer years, Harry. Knew he was out there, 
bidin’ his time. It had ter happen. Well, now it has, 
an’ we’ll jus’ have ter get on with it. We’ll fight. Migh’ 
be able ter stop him before he gets a good hold. That’s 
Dumbledore’s plan, anyway. Great man, Dumbledore. 
’S long as we’ve got him, I’m not too worried.” 

Hagrid raised his bushy eyebrows at the disbelieving 
expressions on their faces. 

“No good sittin’ worryin’ abou’ it,” he said. “What’s 
cornin’ will come, an’ we’ll meet it when it does. 
Dumbledore told me wha’ you did, Harry.” 

Hagrid’s chest swelled as he looked at Harry. 

“Yeh did as much as yer father would’ve done, an’ I 
can’ give yeh no higher praise than that.” 

Harry smiled back at him. It was the first time he’d 
smiled in days. “What’s Dumbledore asked you to do, 
Hagrid?” he asked. “He sent Professor McGonagall to 
ask you and Madame Maxime to meet him — that 
night.” 



Page | 793 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Got a little job fer me over the summer,” said Hagrid. 
“Secret, though. I’m not s’pposed ter talk abou’ it, no, 
not even ter you lot. Olympe — Madame Maxime ter 
you — might be cornin’ with me. I think she will. 
Think I got her persuaded.” 

“Is it to do with Voldemort?” 

Hagrid flinched at the sound of the name. 

“Migh’ be,” he said evasively. “Now ... who’d like ter 
come an’ visit the las’ skrewt with me? I was jokin’ — 
jokin’!” he added hastily, seeing the looks on their 
faces. 



k k k 



It was with a heavy heart that Harry packed his trunk 
up in the dormitory on the night before his return to 
Privet Drive. He was dreading the Leaving Feast, 
which was usually a cause for celebration, when the 
winner of the Inter-House Championship would be 
announced. He had avoided being in the Great Hall 
when it was full ever since he had left the hospital 
wing, preferring to eat when it was nearly empty to 
avoid the stares of his fellow students. 

When he, Ron, and Hermione entered the Hall, they 
saw at once that the usual decorations were missing. 
The Great Hall was normally decorated with the 
winning House’s colors for the Leaving Feast. Tonight, 
however, there were black drapes on the wall behind 
the teachers’ table. Harry knew instantly that they 
were there as a mark of respect to Cedric. 

The real Mad-Eye Moody was at the staff table now, 
his wooden leg and his magical eye back in place. He 
was extremely twitchy, jumping every time someone 



Page | 794 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




spoke to him. Harry couldn’t blame him; Moody’s fear 
of attack was bound to have been increased by his 
ten-month imprisonment in his own trunk. Professor 
Karkaroff’s chair was empty. Harry wondered, as he 
sat down with the other Gryffindors, where Karkaroff 
was now, and whether Voldemort had caught up with 
him. 

Madame Maxime was still there. She was sitting next 
to Hagrid. They were talking quietly together. Further 
along the table, sitting next to Professor McGonagall, 
was Snape. His eyes lingered on Harry for a moment 
as Harry looked at him. His expression was difficult to 
read. He looked as sour and unpleasant as ever. 

Harry continued to watch him, long after Snape had 
looked away. 

What was it that Snape had done on Dumbledore’s 
orders, the night that Voldemort had returned? And 
why ... why ... was Dumbledore so convinced that 
Snape was truly on their side? He had been their spy, 
Dumbledore had said so in the Pensieve. Snape had 
turned spy against Voldemort, “at great personal 
risk.” Was that the job he had taken up again? Had 
he made contact with the Death Eaters, perhaps? 
Pretended that he had never really gone over to 
Dumbledore, that he had been, like Voldemort 
himself, biding his time? 

Harry’s musings were ended by Professor 
Dumbledore, who stood up at the staff table. The 
Great Hall, which in any case had been less noisy 
than it usually was at the Leaving Feast, became very 
quiet. 

“The end,” said Dumbledore, looking around at them 
all, “of another year.” 



Page | 795 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He paused, and his eyes fell upon the Hufflepuff 
table. Theirs had been the most subdued table before 
he had gotten to his feet, and theirs were still the 
saddest and palest faces in the Hall. 

“There is much that I would like to say to you all 
tonight,” said Dumbledore, “but I must first 
acknowledge the loss of a very fine person, who 
should be sitting here,” he gestured toward the 
Hufflepuffs, “enjoying our feast with us. I would like 
you all, please, to stand, and raise your glasses, to 
Cedric Diggory.” 

They did it, all of them; the benches scraped as 
everyone in the Hall stood, and raised their goblets, 
and echoed, in one loud, low, rumbling voice, “Cedric 
Diggory.” 

Harry caught a glimpse of Cho through the crowd. 
There were tears pouring silently down her face. He 
looked down at the table as they all sat down again. 

“Cedric was a person who exemplified many of the 
qualities that distinguish Hufflepuff house,” 
Dumbledore continued. “He was a good and loyal 
friend, a hard worker, he valued fair play. His death 
has affected you all, whether you knew him well or 
not. I think that you have the right, therefore, to 
know exactly how it came about.” 

Harry raised his head and stared at Dumbledore. 

“Cedric Diggory was murdered by Lord Voldemort.” 

A panicked whisper swept the Great Hall. People were 
staring at Dumbledore in disbelief, in horror. He 
looked perfectly calm as he watched them mutter 
themselves into silence. 



Page | 796 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“The Ministry of Magic,” Dumbledore continued, “does 
not wish me to tell you this. It is possible that some of 
your parents will be horrified that I have done so — 
either because they will not believe that Lord 
Voldemort has returned, or because they think I 
should not tell you so, young as you are. It is my 
belief, however, that the truth is generally preferable 
to lies, and that any attempt to pretend that Cedric 
died as the result of an accident, or some sort of 
blunder of his own, is an insult to his memory.” 

Stunned and frightened, every face in the Hall was 
turned toward Dumbledore now ... or almost every 
face. Over at the Slytherin table, Harry saw Draco 
Malfoy muttering something to Crabbe and Goyle. 
Harry felt a hot, sick swoop of anger in his stomach. 
He forced himself to look back at Dumbledore. 

“There is somebody else who must be mentioned in 
connection with Cedric’s death,” Dumbledore went 
on. “I am talking, of course, about Harry Potter.” 

A kind of ripple crossed the Great Hall as a few heads 
turned in Harry’s direction before flicking back to face 
Dumbledore. 

“Harry Potter managed to escape Lord Voldemort,” 
said Dumbledore. “He risked his own life to return 
Cedric’s body to Hogwarts. He showed, in every 
respect, the sort of bravery that few wizards have ever 
shown in facing Lord Voldemort, and for this, I honor 
him.” 

Dumbledore turned gravely to Harry and raised his 
goblet once more. Nearly everyone in the Great Hall 
followed suit. They murmured his name, as they had 
murmured Cedric’s, and drank to him. But through a 
gap in the standing figures, Harry saw that Malfoy, 
Crabbe, Goyle, and many of the other Slytherins had 
Page | 797 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




remained defiantly in their seats, their goblets 
untouched. Dumbledore, who after all possessed no 
magical eye, did not see them. 

When everyone had once again resumed their seats, 
Dumbledore continued, “The Triwizard Tournament’s 
aim was to further and promote magical 
understanding. In the light of what has happened — 
of Lord Voldemort’s return — such ties are more 
important than ever before.” 

Dumbledore looked from Madame Maxime and 
Hagrid, to Fleur Delacour and her fellow Beauxbatons 
students, to Viktor Krum and the Durmstrangs at the 
Slytherin table. Krum, Harry saw, looked wary, 
almost frightened, as though he expected Dumbledore 
to say something harsh. 

“Every guest in this Hall,” said Dumbledore, and his 
eyes lingered upon the Durmstrang students, “will be 
welcomed back here at any time, should they wish to 
come. I say to you all, once again — in the light of 
Lord Voldemort’s return, we are only as strong as we 
are united, as weak as we are divided. Lord 
Voldemort’s gift for spreading discord and enmity is 
very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally 
strong bond of friendship and trust. Differences of 
habit and language are nothing at all if our aims are 
identical and our hearts are open. 

“It is my belief — and never have I so hoped that I am 
mistaken — that we are all facing dark and difficult 
times. Some of you in this Hall have already suffered 
directly at the hands of Lord Voldemort. Many of your 
families have been torn asunder. A week ago, a 
student was taken from our midst. 

“Remember Cedric. Remember, if the time should 
come when you have to make a choice between what 

Page | 798 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




is right and what is easy, remember what happened 
to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because 
he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort. 
Remember Cedric Diggory.” 

Harry’s trunk was packed; Hedwig was back in her 
cage on top of it. He, Ron, and Hermione were waiting 
in the crowded entrance hall with the rest of the 
fourth years for the carriages that would take them 
back to Hogsmeade station. It was another beautiful 
summer’s day. He supposed that Privet Drive would 
be hot and leafy, its flower beds a riot of color, when 
he arrived there that evening. The thought gave him 
no pleasure at all. 

“ ’Arry!” 

He looked around. Fleur Delacour was hurrying up 
the stone steps into the castle. Beyond her, far across 
the grounds, Harry could see Hagrid helping Madame 
Maxime to back two of the giant horses into their 
harness. The Beauxbatons carriage was about to take 
off. 

“We will see each uzzer again, I ’ope,” said Fleur as 
she reached him, holding out her hand. “I am ’oping 
to get a job ’ere, to improve my Eenglish.” 

“It’s very good already,” said Ron in a strangled sort of 
voice. Fleur smiled at him; Hermione scowled. 

“Good-bye, ’Arry,” said Fleur, turning to go. “It ’az 
been a pleasure meeting you!” 

Harry’s spirits couldn’t help but lift slightly as he 
watched Fleur hurry back across the lawns to 
Madame Maxime, her silvery hair rippling in the 
sunlight. 



Page | 799 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Wonder how the Durmstrang students are getting 
back,” said Ron. “D’you reckon they can steer that 
ship without Karkaroff?” 

“Karkaroff did not steer,” said a gruff voice. “He 
stayed in his cabin and let us do the vork.” 

Krum had come to say good-bye to Hermione. 

“Could I have a vord?” he asked her. 

“Oh ... yes ... all right,” said Hermione, looking 
slightly flustered, and following Krum through the 
crowd and out of sight. 

“You’d better hurry up!” Ron called loudly after her. 
“The carriages’ll be here in a minute!” 

He let Harry keep a watch for the carriages, however, 
and spent the next few minutes craning his neck over 
the crowd to try and see what Krum and Hermione 
might be up to. They returned quite soon. Ron stared 
at Hermione, but her face was quite impassive. 

