—SER CREIGHTON LONGBOUGH and SER ILLIFER THE PENNILESS, hedge knights and companions,

—HIBALD, a merchant fearful and niggardly,

—SER SHADRICK OF THE SHADY GLEN, cal ed THE MAD MOUSE, a hedge knight in Hibald’s service,

—BRIENNE, THE MAID OF TARTH, also cal ed BRIENNE THE BEAUTY, a maiden on a quest,

—LORD SELWYN THE EVENSTAR, Lord of Tarth, her father,

—{BIG BEN BUSHY}, SER HYLE HUNT, SER MARK MULLENDORE, SER EDMUND AMBROSE, {SER RICHARD FARROW},

{WILL THE STORK}, SER HUGH BEESBURY, SER RAYMOND NAYLAND, HARRY SAWYER, SER OWEN INCHFIELD, ROBIN POTTER, her onetime suitors,

—RENFRED RYKKER, Lord of Duskendale,

—SER RUFUS LEEK, a one-legged knight in his service, castellan of the Dun Fort at Duskendale,

—WILLIAM MOOTON, Lord of Maidenpool,

—ELEANOR, his eldest daughter and heir, thirteen,

—RANDYLL TARLY, Lord of Horn Hil , commanding King Tommen’s forces along the Trident,

—DICKON, his son and heir, a young squire,

—SER HYLE HUNT, sworn to the service of House Tarly,

—SER ALYN HUNT, Ser Hyle’s cousin, likewise in Lord Randyl ’s service,

—DICK CRABB, called NIMBLE DICK, a Crabb of Crackclaw Point,

—EUSTACE BRUNE, Lord of the Dyre Den,

—BENNARD BRUNE, the Knight of Brownhollow, his cousin,

—SER ROGER HOGG, the Knight of Sow’s Horn,

—SEPTON MERIBALD, a barefoot septon,

—his dog, DOG,

—THE ELDER BROTHER, of the Quiet Isle,

—BROTHER NARBERT, BROTHER GILLAM, BROTHER RAWNEY, pentitent brothers of the Quiet Isle,

—SER QUINCY COX, the Knight of Saltpans, an old man in his dotage,

—at the old crossroads inn:

—JEYNE HEDDLE, called LONG JEYNE, innkeep, a tall young wench of eighteen years,

—WILLOW, her sister, stern with a spoon,

—TANSY, PATE, JON PENNY, BEN, orphans at the inn,

—GENDRY, an apprentice smith and bastard son of King Robert I Baratheon, ignorant of his birth,

—at Harrenhal,

—RAFFORD cal ed RAFF THE SWEETLING, SHITMOUTH, DUNSEN, men of the garrison,

—BEN BLACKTHUMB, a smith and armorer,

—PIA, a serving wench, once pretty,

—MAESTER GULIAN, healer, tutor, and counselor,

—at Darry,

—LADY AMEREI FREY, called GATEHOUSE AMI, an amorous young widow betrothed to Lord Lancel Lannister,

—Lady Amerei’s mother, LADY MARIYA of House Darry, widowed wife of Merrett Frey,

—Lady Amerei’s sister, MARISSA, a maid of thirteen,

—SER HARWYN PLUMM, called HARDSTONE, commander of the garrison,

—MAESTER OTTOMORE, healer, tutor, and advisor,

—at the Inn of the Kneeling Man:

—SHARNA, the innkeep, a cook and midwife,

—her husband, called HUSBAND,

—BOY, an orphan of the war,

—HOT PIE, a baker’s boy, now orphaned.



OUTLAWS AND BROKEN MEN

{BERIC DONDARRION}, once Lord of Blackhaven, six times slain,

—EDRIC DAYNE, Lord of Starfal , a boy of twelve, Lord Beric’s squire,

—THE MAD HUNTSMAN of Stoney Sept, his sometime ally,

—GREENBEARD, a Tyroshi sel sword, his uncertain friend,

—ANGUY THE ARCHER, a bowman from the Dornish Marches,

—MERRIT O’ MOONTOWN, WATTY THE MILLER, SWAMPY MEG, JON O’ NUTTEN, outlaws in his band, LADY STONEHEART, a hooded woman, sometimes called MOTHER MERCY, THE SILENT SISTER, and THE HANGWOMAN,

—LEM, called LEM LEMONCLOAK, a onetime soldier,

—THOROS OF MYR, a red priest,

—HARWIN, son of Hul en, a northman once in service to Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell,

—JACK-BE-LUCKY, a wanted man, short an eye,

—TOM OF SEVENSTREAMS, a singer of dubious report, called TOM SEVENSTRINGS and TOM O’ SEVENS,

—LIKELY LUKE, NOTCH, MUDGE, BEARDLESS DICK, outlaws,

SANDOR CLEGANE, called THE HOUND, once King Joffrey’s sworn shield, later a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard, last seen feverish and dying beside the Trident,

{VARGO HOAT} of the Free City of Qohor, called THE GOAT,

a sellsword captain of slobbery speech, slain at

Harrenhal by Ser Gregor Clegane,

—his Brave Companions, also called the Bloody Mummers:

—URSWYCK called FAITHFUL, his lieutenant,

—{SEPTON UTT}, hanged by Lord Beric Dondarrion,

—TIMEON OF DORNE, FAT ZOLLO, RORGE, BITER, PYG, SHAGWELL THE FOOL, TOGG JOTH of Ibben, THREE TOES, scattered and running,

—at the Peach, a brothel in Stoney Sept:

—TANSY, the red-haired proprietor,

—ALYCE, CASS, LANNA, JYZENE, HELLY, BELLA, some of her peaches,

—at Acorn Hal , the seat of House Smallwood:

—LADY RAVELLA, formerly of House Swann, wife to Lord Theomar Smallwood,

—here and there and elsewhere:

—LORD LYMOND LYCHESTER, an old man of wandering wit, who once held Ser Maynard at the bridge,

—his young caretaker, MAESTER ROONE,

—the ghost of High Heart,

—the Lady of the Leaves,

—the septon at Sallydance.

THE SWORN BROTHERS OF THE NIGHT’S WATCH

JON SNOW, the Bastard of Winterfel, nine-hundred-and-ninety- eighth Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch,

—GHOST, his white direwolf,

—his steward, EDDISON TOLLETT, called DOLOROUS EDD,

THE MEN OF CASTLE BLACK

—BENJEN STARK, First Ranger, long missing, presumed dead,

—SER WYNTON STOUT, an aged ranger, feeble of wit,

—KEDGE WHITEYE, BEDWYCK cal ed GIANT, MATTHAR, DYWEN, GARTH GREYFEATHER, ULMER OF THE

KINGSWOOD, ELRON, PYPAR cal ed PYP, GRENN cal ed AUROCHS, BERNARR cal ed BLACK BERNARR, GOADY, TIM

STONE, BLACK JACK BULWER, GEOFF cal ed THE SQUIRREL, BEARDED BEN, rangers,

—BOWEN MARSH, Lord Steward,



—THREE-FINGER HOBB, steward and chief cook,

—{DONAL NOYE}, one-armed armorer and smith, slain at the gate by Mag the Mighty

—OWEN cal ed THE OAF, TIM TANGLETONGUE, MULLY, CUGEN, DONNEL HILL cal ed SWEET DONNEL, LEFT HAND

LEW, JEREN, WICK WHITTLESTICK, stewards,

—OTHELL YARWYCK, First Builder,

—SPARE BOOT, HALDER, ALBETT, KEGS, builders,

—CONWY, GUEREN, wandering recruiters,

—SEPTON CELLADOR, a drunken devout,

—SER ALLISER THORNE, former master-at-arms,

—LORD JANOS SLYNT, former commander of the City Watch of King’s Landing, briefly Lord of Harrenhal,

—MAESTER AEMON (TARGARYEN), healer and counselor, a blind man, one hundred and two years old,

—Aemon’s steward, CLYDAS,

—Aemon’s steward, SAMWELL TARLY, fat and bookish,

—IRON EMMETT, formerly of Eastwatch, master-at-arms,

—HARETH called HORSE, the twins ARRON and EMRICK, SATIN, HOP-ROBIN, recruits in training, THE MEN OF THE SHADOW TOWER

SER DENYS MALLISTER, Commander, Shadow Tower,

—his steward and squire, WALLACE MASSEY,

—MAESTER MULLIN, healer and counselor,

—{QHORIN HALFHAND}, chief ranger, slain by Jon Snow beyond the Wal ,

—brothers of the Shadow Tower:

—{SQUIRE DALBRIDGE, EGGEN}, rangers, slain in the Skirling Pass,

—STONESNAKE, a ranger, lost afoot in Skirling Pass,

THE MEN OF EASTWATCH-BY-THE-SEA

COTTER PYKE, Commander,

—MAESTER HARMUNE, healer and counselor,

—OLD TATTERSALT, captain of the Blackbird,

—SER GLENDON HEWETT, master-at-arms,

—brothers of Eastwatch:

—DAREON, steward and singer,

AT CRASTER’S KEEP (THE BETRAYERS)

—DIRK, who murdered Craster, his host,

—OLLO LOPHAND, who slew his lord commander, Jeor Mormont,

—GARTH OF GREENAWAY, MAWNEY, GRUBBS, ALAN OF ROSBY, former rangers

—CLUBFOOT KARL, ORPHAN OSS, MUTTERING BILL, former stewards.

the WILDLINGS, or THE FREE FOLK

MANCE RAYDER, King-beyond-the-Wall, a captive at Castle Black,

—his wife, {DALLA}, died in childbirth,

—their newborn son, born in bat le, not yet named,

—VAL, Dalla’s younger sister, “the wildling princess,” a captive at Castle Black,

—wildling chiefs and captains:

—{HARMA}, called DOGSHEAD, slain beneath the Wal ,

—HALLECK, her brother,

—THE LORD OF BONES, mocked as RATTLESHIRT, a raider and leader of a war band, captive at Castle Black,

—{YGRITTE}, a young spearwife, Jon Snow’s lover, kil ed during the attack on Castle Black,

—RYK, called LONGSPEAR, a member of his band,

—RAGWYLE, LENYL, members of his band,



—{STYR}, Magnar of Thenn, slain attacking Castle Black,

—SIGORN, Styr’s son, the new Magnar of Thenn,

—TORMUND, Mead-King of Ruddy Hall, called GIANTSBANE, TALL-TALKER, HORN-BLOWER, and BREAKER OF ICE, also THUNDERFIST, HUSBAND TO BEARS, SPEAKER TO GODS, and FATHER OF HOSTS,

—Tormund’s sons, TOREGG THE TALL, TORWYRD THE TAME, DORMUND, and DRYN, his daughter MUNDA,

—THE WEEPER, a raider and leader of a war band,

—{ALFYN CROWKILLER}, a raider, slain by Qhorin Halfhand of the Night’s Watch,

—{ORELL}, called ORELL THE EAGLE, a skinchanger slain by Jon Snow in the Skirling Pass,

—{MAG MAR TUN DOH WEG}, called MAG THE MIGHTY, a giant, slain by Donal Noye at the gate of Castle Black,

—VARAMYR cal ed SIXSKINS, a skinchanger, master of three wolves, a shadowcat, and snow bear,

—{JARL}, a young raider, Val’s lover, kil ed in a fall from the Wal ,

—GRIGG THE GOAT, ERROK, BODGER, DEL, BIG BOIL, HEMPEN DAN, HENK THE HELM, LENN, TOEFINGER, wildlings and raiders,

{CRASTER}, master of Craster’s Keep, slain by Dirk of the Night’s Watch, a guest beneath his roof,

—GILLY, his daughter and wife,

—Gil y’s newborn son, not yet named,

—DYAH, FERNY, NELLA, three of Craster’s nineteen wives.





BEYOND THE NARROW SEA

THE QUEEN ACROSS THE WATER

DAENERYS TARGARYEN, the First of Her Name, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, Protector of the Realm, Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, cal ed DAENERYS STORMBORN, the UNBURNT, MOTHER OF DRAGONS,

—her dragons, DROGON, VISERION, RHAEGAL,

—her brother, {RHAEGAR}, Prince of Dragonstone, slain by Robert Baratheon on the Trident,

—Rhaegar’s daughter, {RHAENYS}, murdered during the Sack of King’s Landing,

—Rhaegar’s son, {AEGON, a babe in arms, murdered during the Sack of King’s Landing,

—her brother {VISERYS}, the Third of His Name, called THE BEGGAR KING, crowned with molten gold,

—her lord husband, {DROGO}, a khal of the Dothraki, died of a wound gone bad,

—her stil born son by Drogo, {RHAEGO}, slain in the womb by the maegi Mirri Maz Duur,

—her Queensguard:

—SER BARRISTAN SELMY, cal ed BARRISTAN THE BOLD, once Lord Commander of King Robert’s Kingsguard,

—JHOGO, ko and bloodrider, the whip,

—AGGO, ko and bloodrider, the bow,

—RAKHARO, ko and bloodrider, the arakh,

—STRONG BELWAS, eunuch and former fighting slave,

—her captains and commanders:

—DAARIO NAHARIS, a flamboyant Tyroshi sellsword, commanding the company of Stormcrows,

—BEN PLUMM, called BROWN BEN, a mongrel sellsword, commanding the company of Second Sons,

—GREY WORM, a eunuch, commanding the Unsul ied, a company of eunuch infantry,

—GROLEO of Pentos, formerly captain of the great cog Saduleon, now an admiral without a fleet,

—her handmaids:

—IRRI and JHIQUI, two Dothraki girls, sixteen,

—MISSANDEI, a Naathi scribe and translator,

—her known and suspected enemies:

—GRAZDAN MO ERAZ, a nobleman of Yunkai,

—KHAL PONO, once ko to Khal Drogo,

—KHAL JHAQO, once ko to Khal Drogo,

—MAGGO, his bloodrider,

—THE UNDYING OF QARTH, a band of warlocks,

—PYAT PREE, a Qartheen warlock,

—THE SORROWFUL MEN, a guild of Qartheen assassins,

—SER JORAH MORMONT, formerly Lord of Bear Island,

—{MIRRI MAZ DUUR}, godswife and maegi, a servant of the Great Shepherd of Lhazar,

—her uncertain allies, past and present:

—XARO XHOAN DAXOS, a merchant prince of Qarth,

—QUAITHE, a masked shadowbinder from Asshai,

—ILLYRIO MOPATIS, a magister of the Free City of Pentos, who brokered her marriage to Khal Drogo,

—CLEON THE GREAT, butcher king of Astapor,

—KHAL MORO, sometime al y of Khal Drogo,

—RHOGORO, his son and khalakka,

—KHAL JOMMO, sometime al y of Khal Drogo.

The Targaryens are the blood of the dragon, descended from the high lords of the ancient Freehold of Valyria, their heritage marked by lilac, indigo, and violet eyes and hair of silver-gold. To preserve their blood and keep it pure, House Targaryen has oft wed brother to sister, cousin to cousin, uncle to niece. The founder of the dynasty, Aegon the Conquerer, took both his sisters to wife and fathered sons on each. The Targaryen banner is a three-headed dragon, red on black, the three heads representing Aegon and his sisters. The Targaryen words are Fire and Blood.





IN BRAAVOS

FERREGO ANTARYON, Sealord of Braavos,

—QARRO VOLENTIN, First Sword of Braavos, his protector,

—BELLEGERE OTHERYS called THE BLACK PEARL, a courtesan descended from the pirate queen of the same name,

—THE VEILED LADY, THE MERLING QUEEN, THE MOONSHADOW, THE DAUGHTER OF THE DUSK, THE NIGHTINGALE, THE POETESS, famous courtesans,

—TERNESIO TERYS, Merchant-Captain of the Titan’s Daughter,

—YORKO and DENYO, two of his sons,

—MOREDO PRESTAYN, Merchant-Captain of the Vixen,

—LOTHO LORNEL, a dealer in old books and scrolls,

—EZZELYNO, a red priest, oft drunk,

—SEPTON EUSTACE, disgraced and defrocked,

—TERRO and ORBELO, a pair of bravos,

—BLIND BEQQO, a fishmonger,

—BRUSCO, a fishmonger,

—his daughters, TALEA and BREA,

—MERALYN, called MERRY, proprietor of the Happy Port, a brothel near the Ragman’s Harbor,

—THE SAILOR’S WIFE, a whore at the Happy Port,

—LANNA, her daughter, a young whore,

—BLUSHING BETHANY, YNA ONE-EYE, ASSADORA OF IBBEN, the whores of the Happy Port,

—RED ROGGO, GYLORO DOTHARE, GYLENO DOTHARE, a scribbler cal ed QUILL, COSSOMO THE CONJURER, patrons of the Happy Port,

—TAGGANARO, a dockside cutpurse and thief,

—CASSO, KING OF THE SEALS, his trained seal,

—LITTLE NARBO, his sometime partner,

—MYRMELLO, JOSS THE GLOOM, QUENCE, ALLAQUO, SLOEY, mummers performing nightly on the Ship,

—S’VRONE, a dockside whore of a murderous bent,

—THE DRUNKEN DAUGHTER, a whore of uncertain temper,

—CANKER JEYNE, a whore of uncertain sex,

—THE KINDLY MAN and THE WAIF, servants of the Many-Faced God at the House of Black and White,

—UMMA, the temple cook,

—THE HANDSOME MAN, THE FAT FELLOW, THE LORDLING, THE STERN FACE, THE SQUINTER, and THE STARVED

MAN, secret servants of Him of Many Faces,

—ARYA of House Stark, a girl with an iron coin, also known as ARRY, NAN, WEASEL, SQUAB, SALTY, and CAT

—QUHURU MO, of Tall Trees Town in the Summer Isles, master of the merchantman Cinnamon Wind,

—KOJJA MO, his daughter, the red archer,

—XHONDO DHORU, mate on the Cinnamon Wind.





ACKNOWLEDGMENTS



This one was a bitch.

My thanks and appreciation go out once again to those stalwart souls, my editors: Nita Taublib, Joy Chamberlain, Jane Johnson, and especially Anne Lesley Groel , for her counsel, her good humor, and her vast forbearance.

Thanks also to my readers, for al their kind and supportive e-mails, and for their patience. A special tip of the helm to Lodey of the Three Fists, Pod the Devil Bunny, Trebla and Daj the Trivial Kings, sweet Caress of the Wall, Lannister the Squirrel Slayer, and the rest of the Brotherhood Without Banners, that half-mad drunken fel owship of brave knights and lovely ladies who throw the best parties at worldcon, year after year after year. And let me sound a fanfare too for Elio and Linda, who seem to know the Seven Kingdoms better than I do, and help me keep my continuity straight. Their Westeros website and concordance is a joy and a wonder.

And thanks to Walter Jon Williams for guiding me across more salty seas, to Sage Walker for leeches and fevers and broken bones, to Pati Nagle for HTML and spinning shields and getting al my news up quickly, and to Melinda Snodgrass and Daniel Abraham for service that was truly above and beyond the cal of duty. I get by with a little help from my friends.

No words could suffice for Parris, who has been there on the good days and the bad ones for every bloody page. All that needs be said is that I could not sing this Song without her.





ABOUT THE AUTHOR



GEORGE R. R. MARTIN sold his first story in 1971 and has been writing professional y since then. He spent ten years in Hol ywood as a writer-producer, working on The Twilight Zone, Beauty and the Beast, and various feature films and television pilots that were never made.

In the mid ’90s he returned to prose, his first love, and began work on his epic fantasy series, A Song of Ice and Fire. He has been in the Seven Kingdoms ever since. Whenever he’s allowed to leave, he returns to Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he lives with the lovely Parris, a big white dog cal ed Mischa, and two cats named Augustus and Caligula, who think they run the place.





ALSO BY GEORGE R. R. MARTIN



A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE

Book One: A Game of Thrones

Book Two: A Clash of Kings

Book Three: A Storm of Swords



Dying of the Light

Windhaven (with Lisa Tuttle)

Fevre Dream

The Armageddon Rag

Dead Man’s Hand (with John J. Miller)



SHORT STORY COLLECTIONS



A Song of Lya and Others

Songs of Stars and Shadows

Sandkings

Songs the Dead Men Sing

Nightflyers

Tuf Voyaging

Portraits of His Children



EDITED BY GEORGE R. R. MARTIN



New Voices in Science Fiction, Volumes 1–4

The Science Fiction Weight-Loss Book (with Isaac Asimov and Martin Harry Greenberg) The John W. Campbell Awards, Volume 5

Night Visions 3

Wild Card I–XV





And coming soon…



A DANCE WITH DRAGONS

BY

GEORGE R. R. MARTIN



The epic continuation of his landmark series

A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE





Here’s a special preview:

DAENERYS



She could hear the dead man coming up the steps. The slow, measured sound of footsteps went before him, echoing amongst the purple pillars of her hall. Daenerys Targaryen awaited him upon the ebon bench that she had made her throne. Her eyes were soft with sleep, her silver-gold hair all tousled.

“Your Grace,” said Ser Barristan Selmy, the Lord Commander of her Queensguard, “there is no need for you to see this.”

“He died for me.” Dany clutched her lion pelt to her chest. Underneath, a sheer white linen tunic covered her to mid-thigh. She had been dreaming of a house with a red door when Missandei woke her. There had been no time to dress.

“Khaleesi,” whispered Irri, “you must not touch the dead man. It is bad luck to touch the dead.”

“Unless you killed them yourself.” Jhiqui was bigger-boned than Irri, with wide hips and heavy breasts. “That is known.”

“It is known,” Irri agreed.

Dany paid no heed. Dothraki were wise where horses were concerned, but could be utter fools about much else. They are only girls, besides. Her handmaids were of an age with her; women grown to look at them, with their black hair, copper skin, and almond-shaped eyes, but children al the same. Khal Drogo had given them to her, who was her sun-and-stars. Drogo had given her the pelt too, the head and hide of a hrakkar, the white lion of the Dothraki sea. It was too big for her and had a musty smel , but it made her feel as if Drogo were still near her.

Grey Worm appeared atop the steps first, a torch in hand. His bronze cap was crested with three spikes. Behind him followed four of his Unsul ied, bearing the dead man on their shoulders.

Their caps had only one spike, and their faces showed so little they might have been cast of bronze as well. They laid the corpse down at her feet. Ser Barristan pulled back the blood-stained shroud. Grey Worm lowered the torch, so she might see.

The dead man’s face was smooth and hairless, though his cheeks had been slashed open almost ear to ear. He had been a tall man, blue-eyed and fair of face. Some child of Lys or old Volantis, snatched off a ship by corsairs and sold into bondage in red Astapor. Though his eyes were open, it was his wounds that wept. There were more wounds than she could count.

“Your Grace,” Ser Barristan said, “there was a harpy drawn on the bricks in the al ey where he was found...”

“... drawn in his own blood.” Daenerys knew the way of it by now. The Sons of the Harpy did their butchery by night, and over each kil they left their mark. “Grey Worm, why was this man alone? Had he no partner?” When the Unsullied walked the streets of Meereen by night, they always walked in pairs.



“My queen,” replied the captain, “your servant Stalwart Shield had no duty last night. He had gone to a... a certain place... to drink, and have companionship.”

“A certain place? What do you mean?”

“A house of pleasure, Your Grace.” Beneath the spiked bronze cap, Grey Worm’s face might have been made of stone.

A brothel. Half of her freedmen were from Yunkai, where the Wise Masters had been famed for training bed slaves. The way of the seven sighs. Brothels had sprouted up like mushrooms al over Meereen. It is al they know. They need to survive. Food grew more costly every day, whilst the pleasures of the flesh got cheaper. In the poorer districts between the stepped pyramids of Meereen’s slaver nobility, there were brothels catering to every conceivable erotic taste, she knew. Even so...

“What could a eunuch hope to find in a brothel?” she asked.

“Even those who lack a man’s parts may stil have a man’s heart, Your Grace,” said Grey Worm. “This one has been told that your servant Stalwart Shield sometimes gave coin to the women of the brothels, to lay with him and hold him.”

The blood of the dragon does not weep. “Stalwart Shield,” she said, dry-eyed. “That was his name?”

“If it please Your Grace.”

“It is a fine name.” The Good Masters of Astapor had not allowed their slave soldiers even names. Some of her Unsullied reclaimed their birth names after she had freed them; others chose new names for themselves. “Is it known how many attackers fel upon Stalwart Shield?”

“This one does not know. Many.”

“Six or more,” said Ser Barristan. “From the look of his wounds, they swarmed him from all sides. He was found with an empty scabbard. It may be that he wounded some of his attackers.”

Dany said a silent prayer that somewhere one of them was dying even now, clutching at his belly and writhing in pain. “Why did they cut open his cheeks like that?”

“Gracious queen,” said Grey Worm, “his killers had forced the genitals of a goat down the throat of your servant Stalwart Shield. This one removed them before bringing him here.”

They could not feed him his own genitals. The Astapori left him neither root nor stem. “The Sons grow bolder,” Dany observed. Until now, they had limited their attacks to unarmed freedmen, cutting them down in the streets or breaking into their homes under the cover of darkness to murder them in their beds. “This is the first of my soldiers they have slain.”

“The first,” Ser Barristan warned, “but not the last.”

I am still at war, Dany realized, only now I am fighting shadows. She had hoped to have a respite from the killing, some time to build and heal. Shrugging off the lion pelt, she knelt beside the corpse and closed the dead man’s eyes, ignoring Jhiqui’s gasp. “Stalwart Shield shall not be forgotten. Have him washed and dressed for battle, and bury him with cap and shield and spears.”

“It shall be as Your Grace commands,” said Grey Worm.



She stood. “Send a dozen men to the Temple of the Graces, and ask the Blue Graces if any man has come to them seeking treatment for a sword wound. And spread the word that we wil pay good gold for the short sword of Stalwart Shield. Inquire of the butchers and the herdsmen too, and learn who has been gelding goats of late.” Perhaps they would be fortunate, and some frightened goatherd would confess. “Henceforth, see that no man of mine walks alone after dark, whether he has the duty or no.”

“These ones shall obey.”

Daenerys pushed her hair back. “Find these cowards for me,” she said fiercely. “Find them, so that I might teach the Harpy’s Sons what it means to wake the dragon.”

Grey Worm saluted her. His Unsullied closed the shroud once more, lifted the dead man onto their shoulders, and bore him from the hall. Ser Barristan Selmy remained behind. His hair was white, and there were crow’s feet at the corners of his pale blue eyes. Yet his back was still unbent, and the years had not yet robbed him of his skill at arms. “Your Grace,” he said, “I fear your eunuchs are ill-suited for the tasks you set them.”

Dany settled on her bench and wrapped her pelt about her shoulders once again. “The Unsullied are my finest warriors.”

“Soldiers, not warriors, if it please Your Grace. They were made for the battlefield, to stand shoulder to shoulder behind their shields, with their spears thrust out before them. Their training teaches them to obey, fearlessly, perfectly, without thought or hesitation... not to unravel secrets or ask questions.”

“Would knights serve me any better?” Selmy was training knights for her, teaching the sons of slaves to fight with lance and longsword in the Westerosi fashion... but what good would lances do, against cowards who kil ed from the shadows?

“Not in this,” the old man admitted. “And Your Grace has no knights, save me. It will be years before the boys are ready.”

“Then who, if not Unsul ied? Dothraki would be even worse.” Her khalasar was tiny, and largely of green boys and old men. And Dothraki fought from horseback. Mounted men were of more use in open fields and hills than in the narrow streets and al eys of the city. Beyond Meereen’s walls of many-colored brick her rule was tenuous at best. Thousands of slaves still toiled on vast estates in the hills, growing wheat and olives, herding sheep and goats, and mining salt and copper. Meereen’s storehouses still held ample supplies of grain, oil, olives, dried fruit, and salted meat, but the stores were dwindling. So Dany had dispatched her khalasar to subdue the hinterlands, under the command of her three bloodriders, whilst Brown Ben Plumm took his Second Sons south to guard against Yunkish incursions.

The most crucial task of all she had entrusted to Daario Naharis, glib-tongued Daario with his gold tooth and trident beard, smiling his wicked smile through purple whiskers. Beyond the eastern hills was a range of rounded sandstone mountains, the Khyzai Pass, and Lhazar. If Daario could convince the Lhazarene to reopen the overland trade routes, grains could be brought down the river or over the hills at need... but the Lamb Men had no reason to love Meereen. “When the Stormcrows return from Lhazar, perhaps I can use them in the streets,” she told Ser Barristan,

“but until then I have only the Unsullied.”

Dany wondered if Daario had reached Lhazar. Daario will not fail me... but if he does, I will find another way. That is what queens do. They find a way, a way that does not involve taking plows across the river. Even famine might be preferable to sending plows across the Skahazadhan. It was known. “You must excuse me, ser,” she said. “The petitioners will soon be at my gates. I must don my floppy ears and become their queen again. Summon Reznak and the Shavepate; I’ll see them when I’m dressed.”

“As Your Grace commands.” Selmy bowed.

The Great Pyramid shouldered eight hundred feet into the sky, from its huge square base to the lofty apex where the queen kept her private chambers, surrounded by greenery and fragrant pools. As a cool blue dawn broke over the city, Dany walked out onto the terrace. To the west sunlight blazed off the golden domes of the Temple of the Graces, and etched deep shadows behind the stepped pyramids of the mighty. In some of those pyramids, the Sons of the Harpy are plotting new murders even now, she thought, and I am powerless to stop them. Viserion sensed her disquiet. The white dragon lay coiled around a pear tree, his head resting on his tail. When Dany passed his eyes came open, two pools of molten gold. His horns were gold as wel , and the scales that ran down his back from head to tail. “You’re lazy,” she told him, scratching under his jaw. His scales were hot to the touch, like armor left cooking too long in the sun. Dragons are fire made flesh. She had read that in one of the books Ser Jorah had given her as a wedding gift.

“You should be hunting with your brothers. Have you been fighting Drogon again?” Her dragons had grown wilder of late. Rhaegal had snapped at Irri, and Viserion had set Reznak’s tokar ablaze the last time the Seneschal had called. I have left them too much to themselves, but where am I to find the time for them?

Viserion’s tail lashed sideways, thumping the trunk of the tree so hard that a pear came tumbling down to land at Dany’s feet. His wings unfolded, and he half-flew, half-hopped onto the parapet. He is growing, she thought, as the dragon launched himself into the sky. They are al three growing. Soon they will be large enough to bear my weight. Then she would fly as Aegon the Conquerer had flown, up and up, until Meereen was so small that she could blot it out with her thumb.

She watched Viserion climb in widening circles, until he was lost to sight beyond muddy waters of the Skahazadhan. Only then did Dany go back inside the pyramid, where Irri and Jhiqui were waiting to brush the tangles from her hair and garb her as befit the Queen of Meereen, in a Ghiscari tokar.

The garment was clumsy thing, a long loose shapeless sheet that had to be wound around her hips and under an arm and over a shoulder, its dangling fringes carefully layered and displayed.

Wound too loose, it was like to fall off; wound too tight, it would tangle, trip, and bind. Even wound properly, the tokar required its wearer to hold it in place with the left hand. Walking in a tokar demanded smal , mincing steps and exquisite balance, lest one tread upon those heavy trailing fringes. It was not a garment meant for any man who had to work. The tokar was a master’s garment, a sign of wealth and power.

Dany had wanted to ban the tokar when she took Meereen, but her council had convinced her otherwise. “The Mother of Dragons must don the tokar or be forever hated,” warned the Green Grace, Galazza Galare. “In the wools of Westeros or a gown of Myrish lace, Your Radiance shall forever remain a stranger amongst us, a grotesque outlander, a barbarian conquerer. Meereen’s queen must be a lady of Old Ghis.” Brown Ben Plumm, the captain of the Second Sons, had put it more succinctly. “Man wants to be the king o’ the rabbits, he best wear a pair o’ floppy ears.”

The floppy ears she chose today were made of sheer white linen, with a fringe of golden tassels.

With Jhiqui’s help, she wound the tokar about herself correctly on her third attempt. Irri fetched her crown, wrought in the shape of the three-headed dragon of her House. Its coils were gold, its wings silver, its three heads ivory, onyx, and jade. Dany’s neck and shoulders would be stiff and sore from the weight of it before the day was done. A crown should not sit easy on the head. One of her royal forebears had said that, once. An Aegon, but which one?

Five Aegons had ruled the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, and there might have been a sixth if the Usurper’s dogs had not murdered her brother’s son when he was still a babe at the breast. If he had lived I might have married him. Aegon would have been closer to my age than Viserys.

Dany had scarcely been conceived when Aegon and his sister were murdered. Their father had perished even earlier, slain by the Usurper on the Trident. Her other brother, Viserys, had died screaming in Vaes Dothrak with a crown of molten gold upon his head. They will kill me too, if I al ow it. The knives that slew my Stalwart Shield were meant for me.

She had not forgotten the slave children the Great Masters had nailed up along the road from Yunkai. They had numbered one hundred sixty-three, a child every mile, nailed to mileposts with one arm outstetched to point her way. After Meereen had fallen, Dany nailed up a like number of Great Masters. Swarms of flies had attended their slow dying, and the stench had lingered long in the plaza. Yet some days she feared that she had not gone nearly far enough. These Meereenese were a sly and stubborn people who resisted her at every turn. They had freed their slaves, yes...

only to hire them back as servants at wages so meager that most could scarce afford to eat.

Freedmen too old or young to be of use had been cast into the streets, along with the infirm and the crippled. And still the Great Masters gathered atop their lofty pyramids to complain of how the dragon queen had filled their noble city with hordes of unwashed beggars, thieves, and whores.

To rule Meereen I must win the Meereenese, however much I may despise them. “I am ready,”

she told Irri.

Reznak and Skahaz waited atop the marble steps. “Great queen,” declared Reznak mo Reznak,

“you are so radiant today I fear to look on you.” The Seneschal wore a tokar of maroon silk with a golden fringe. A small, damp man, he smelled as if he had bathed in perfume and spoke a bastard form of High Valyrian, much corrupted and flavored with a thick Ghiscari growl.

“You are kind to say so,” Dany answered, in a purer form of the same tongue.



“My queen,” growled Skahaz mo Kandaq, of the shaven head. Ghiscari hair was dense and wiry; it had long been the fashion for the men of the Slaver Cities to tease it into horns and spikes and wings. By shaving, Skahaz had put old Meereen behind him to accept the new. His Kandaq kin had done the same after his example. Others fol owed, though whether from fear, fashion, or ambition, Dany could not say; shavepates, they were cal ed. Skahaz was the Shavepate... and the vilest of traitors to the Sons of the Harpy and their ilk. “We were told about the eunuch.”

“His name was Stalwart Shield.”

“More will die, unless the murderers are punished.” Even with his shaven scalp, Skahaz had an odious face; a beetled brow, small eyes with heavy bags beneath them, a big nose dark with blackheads, oily skin that looked more yel ow than the usual amber of Ghiscari. It was a blunt, brutal, angry face. She could only pray it was an honest one as wel .

“How can I punish them when I do not know who they are?” Dany demanded of him. “Tel me that, bold Skahaz.”

“You have no lack of enemies, Your Grace. You can see their pyramids from your terrace.

Zhak, Hazkar, Ghazeen, Merreq, Loraq, all the old slaving families. Pahl. Pahl, most of al . A house of women now. Bitter old women with a taste for blood. Women do not forget. Women do not forgive.”

No, Dany thought, and the Usurper’s dogs will learn that, when I return to Westeros. It was true that there was blood between her and the house of Pahl. Oznak zo Pahl had been Meereen’s hero until Strong Belwas slew him. His father, commander of the city watch, had died defending the gates when Joso’s Cock smashed them into splinters. His uncle had been one of the hundred sixty-three on the plaza.

“How much gold have we offered for information concerning the Sons of the Harpy?” Dany asked of Reznak.

“One hundred honors, if it please Your Radiance.”

“One thousand honors would please us more. Make it so.”

“Your Grace has not asked for my counsel,” said Skahaz Shavepate, “but I say that blood must pay for blood. Take one man from each of the families I have named and kill him. The next time one of yours is slain, take two from each great house and kil them both. There will not be a third murder.”

Reznak squealed in distress. “Noooo... gentle queen, such savagery would bring down the ire of the gods. We will find the murderers, I promise you, and when we do they will prove to be baseborn filth, you shall see.”

The Seneschal was as bald as Skahaz, though in his case the gods were responsible. “Should any hair be so insolent as to appear, my barber stands with razor ready,” he had said when she raised him up. There were times when Dany wondered if that razor might not be better used on Reznak’s throat. He was a useful man, but she liked him little and trusted him less. She had not forgotten the maegi Mirri Maz Duur, who had repaid her kindness by murdering her sun-and-stars and unborn child.



The Undying had told her she would be thrice betrayed. The maegi had been the first, Ser Jorah the second. Will Reznak be the third, or the Shavepate, or Daario? Or will it be someone I would never suspect, Ser Barristan or Grey Worm or Missandei?

“Skahaz,” she told the Shavepate, “I thank you for your counsel. Reznak, see what one thousand honors may accomplish.” Clutching her tokar, Daenerys swept past them down the broad marble stair. She took one step at a time, lest she trip over her fringe and go tumbling headfirst into court.

Missandei announced her. The little scribe had a sweet, strong voice. “All kneel for Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles and Mother of Dragons,” she cried as Dany made her slow descent.

The hal had filled. Unsullied stood with their backs to the pillars, holding their shields and spears, the spikes on their caps jutting upward like a row of knives. The Meereenese had gathered beneath the eastern windows, in a throng of shaven pates and hairy horns and hands and spirals. Her freedmen stood well apart from their former masters. Until they stand together, Meereen will know no peace. “Arise.” Dany settled onto her bench. The hall rose. That at least they do as one.

Reznak mo Reznak had a list. Custom demanded that the queen begin with the Astapori envoy, a former slave who called himself Lord Ghael, though no one seemed to know what he was lord of.

Lord Ghael had a mouth of brown and rotten teeth and the pointed yellow face of a weasel. He also had a gift. “Cleon the Great sends these slippers as a token of his love for Daenerys Stormborn, the Mother of Dragons,” he announced.

Irri fetched the slippers for her and put them on Dany’s feet. They were gilded leather, decorated with green freshwater pearls. Does the butcher king believe a pair of pretty slippers will win my hand? “King Cleon is most generous,” she said. “You may thank him for his lovely gift.” Lovely, but made for a child. Dany had small feet, yet the slippers mashed her toes together.

“Great Cleon will be pleased to know they pleased you,” said Lord Ghael. “His Magnificence bids me say that he stands ready to defend the Mother of Dragons from al her foes.”

If he proposes that I marry Cleon again, I’ll throw a slipper at his head, Dany thought, but for once the Astapori envoy made no mention of a marriage.

Instead he said, “The time has come for Astapor and Meereen to end the savage reign of the Wise Masters of Yunkai, sworn foes to al those who live in freedom. Great Cleon bids me tel you that he and his new Unsullied will soon march.”

His new Unsullied are an obscene jape. “King Cleon would be wise to tend his own gardens and let the Yunkai’i tend theirs.” It was not that she harbored any love for Yunkai. More and more she was coming to regret leaving the Yel ow City untaken after defeating its army in the field. The Wise Masters had returned to slaving as soon as she’d moved on, and were busy raising levies, hiring sellswords, and making al iances against her. Cleon the self-styled Great was little better, however. The Butcher King had restored slavery to Astapor, the only change being that the former slaves were now the masters and the former masters were now the slaves.

He is still a butcher, and his hands are bloody. “I am only a young girl and know little of the ways of war,” she went on, “but it is said that Astapor is starving. Let King Cleon feed his people before he leads them out to battle.” She made a gesture of dismissal, and Ghael withdrew.

“Magnificence,” prompted Reznak mo Reznak, “will you hear the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq?”

Again? Dany nodded, and Hizdahr strode forth; a tall man, very slender, with flawless amber skin. He bowed on the same spot where Stalwart Shield had lain in death not long before. I need this man, Dany reminded herself. Hizdahr was a weathly merchant with many friends in Meereen, and more across the seas. He had visited Volantis, Lys, and Qarth, had kin in Tolos and Elyria, and was even said to wield some influence in New Ghis, where the Yunkai’i were trying to stir up enmity against Dany and her rule.

And he was rich. Famously and fabulously rich...

And like to grow richer, if I grant his petition. When Dany had closed the city’s fighting pits, the value of pit shares had plummeted. Hizdahr zo Loraq had grabbed them up with both hands, and now owned most of the pits in Meereen.

The nobleman had wings of hair sprouting from his temples as if his head were about to take flight. His long face was made even longer by a beard of wiry red-black hair bound with rings of gold. His purple tokar was fringed with amethysts and pearls. “Your Radiance will know the reason I am here.”

“Why,” she said, “it must be because you have no other purpose but to plague me. How many times have I refused you?”

“Five times, Your Magnificence.”

“Six, now. I will not have the fighting pits reopened.”

“If Your Majesty will hear my arguments...”

“I have. Five times. Have you brought new arguments?”

“Old arguments,” Hizdahr admitted, “new words. Lovely words, and courteous, more apt to move a queen.”

“It is your cause I find wanting, not your courtesies. I have heard your arguments so often I could plead your case myself. Shall I?” She leaned forward. “The fighting pits have been a part of Meereen since the city was founded. The combats are profoundly religious in nature, a blood sacrifice to the gods of Ghis. The mortal art of Ghis is not mere butchery, but a display of courage, skil , and strength most pleasing to the gods. Victorious fighters are well fed, pampered, and acclaimed, and the heroic slain are honored and remembered. By reopening the pits I would show the people of Meereen that I respect their ways and customs. The pits are far-famed across the world. They draw trade to Meereen, and fil the city’s coffers with coin from the far ends of the earth. Al men share a taste for blood, a taste the pits help slake. In that way they make Meereen more tranquil. For criminals condemned to die upon the sands, the pits represent a judgment by battle, a last chance for a man to prove his innocence.” Dany tossed her hair.

“There. How have I done?”



“Your Radiance has stated the case much better than I could have hoped to do myself. I see that you are eloquent as wel as beautiful. I am quite persuaded.”

She had to laugh. “Very good... but I am not.”

“Your Magnificence,” whispered Reznak mo Reznak in her ear, “if I might remind you, it is customary for the city to claim one-tenth of al the profits from the fighting pits, after expenses, as a tax. That coin might be put to many noble uses.”

“It might,” she agreed, “though if we were to reopen the pits, we should take our tenth before expenses. I am only a young girl and know little of trade, but I dwel ed with Il yrio Mopatis and Xaro Xhoan Daxos long enough to know that much. It makes no matter. Hizdahr, if you could marshal armies as you marshal arguments, you could conquer the world... but my answer is still no. For the sixth time.”

He bowed again, as deeply as before. His pearls and amethysts clattered softly against the marble floor. A very limber man was Hizdahr zo Loraq. “The queen has spoken.”

He might be handsome, but for that silly hair. Reznak and the Green Grace had been urging Dany to take a Meereenese noble for her husband, to reconcile the city to her rule. If it came to that, Hizdahr zo Loraq might be worth a careful look. Sooner him than Skahaz. The Shavepate had offered to set aside his wife for her, but the notion made her shudder. Hizdahr at least knew how to smile, though when Dany tried to imagine what it would be like to share a bed with him, she almost laughed aloud.

“Magnificence,” said Reznak, consulting his list, “the noble Grazdan zo Galare would address you. Will you hear him?”

“It would be my pleasure,” said Dany, admiring the glimmer of the gold and the sheen of the green pearls on Cleon’s slippers while doing her best to ignore the pinching in her toes. Grazdan, she had been forewarned, was a cousin of the Green Grace, whose support she had found invaluable. The priestess was a voice for peace, acceptance, and obedience to lawful authority. I can give her cousin a respectful hearing, whatever he desires.

What he desired turned out to be gold. Dany had refused to compensate any of the Great Masters for the value of the slaves that she had freed, but the Meereenese kept devising other ways to try to squeeze coin from her. The noble Grazdan was one such. He had once owned a slave woman who was a very fine weaver, he told her; the fruits of her loom were greatly valued, not only in Meereen, but in New Ghis and Astapor and Qarth. When this woman had grown old, Grazdan had purchased half a dozen young girls and commanded the crone to instruct them in the secrets of her craft. The old woman was dead now. The young ones, freed, had opened a shop by the harbor wall to sel their weavings. Grazdan zo Galare asked that he be granted a portion of their earnings. “They owe their skill to me,” he insisted. “I plucked them from the auction bloc and gave them to the loom.”

Dany listened quietly, her face still. When he was done, she said, “What was the name of the old weaver?”

“The slave?” Grazdan shifted his weight, frowning. “She was... Elza, it might have been. Or El a. It was six years ago she died. I have owned so many slaves, Your Grace.”



“Let us say Elza.” Dany raised a hand. “Here is our ruling. From the girls, you shall have nothing. It was Elza who taught them weaving, not you. From you, the girls shall have a new loom, the finest coin can buy. That is for forgetting the name of the old woman. You may go.”

Reznak would have summoned another tokar next, but Dany insisted that he cal upon one of the freedmen instead. From that point on she alternated between the former masters and the former slaves. Many and more of the matters brought before her involved redress. Meereen had been sacked savagely after its fall. The stepped pyramids of the mighty had been spared the worst of the ravages, but the humbler parts of the city had been given over to an orgy of looting and killing as the city’s slaves rose up and the starving hordes who had fol owed her from Yunkai and Astapor came pouring through the broken gates. Her Unsul ied had finally restored order, but the sack had left a plague of problems in its wake, and no one was quite certain which laws still held true. And so they came to see the queen.

A rich woman came, whose husband and sons had died defending the city walls. During the sack she had fled to her brother in fear. When she returned, she found her house had been turned into a brothel. The whores had bedecked themselves in her jewels and clothes. She wanted her house back, and her jewels. “They can keep the clothes,” she allowed. Dany granted her the jewels, but ruled the house was lost when she abandoned it.

A former slave came, to accuse a certain noble of the Zhak. The man had recently taken to wife a freedwoman who had been the noble’s bedwarmer before the city fell. The noble had taken her maidenhood, used her for his pleasure, and gotten her with child. Her new husband wanted the noble gelded for the crime of rape, and he wanted a purse of gold as wel , to pay him for raising the noble’s bastard as his own. Dany granted him the gold, but not the gelding. “When he lay with her, your wife was his property, to do with as he would. By law, there was no rape.” Her decision did not please him, she could see, but if she gelded every man who ever forced a bedslave, she would soon rule a city of eunuchs.

A boy came, younger than Dany, slight and scarred, dressed up in a frayed grey tokar trailing silver fringe. His voice broke when he told of how two of his father’s household slaves had risen up the night the gate broke. One had slain his father, the other his elder brother. Both had raped his mother before killing her as well. The boy had escaped with no more than the scar upon his face, but one of the murderers was stil living in his father’s house, and the other had joined the queen’s soldiers as one of the Mother’s Men. He wanted them both hanged.

I am queen over a city built on dust and death. Dany had no choice but to deny him. She had declared a blanket pardon for all crimes committed during the sack. Nor would she punish slaves for rising up against their masters.

When she told him, the boy rushed at her, but his feet tangled in his tokar and he went sprawling headlong on the purple marble. Strong Belwas was on him at once. The huge brown eunuch yanked him up one-handed and shook him like a mastiff with a rat. “Enough, Belwas,”

Dany called. “Release him.” To the boy she said, “Treasure that tokar, for it saved your life. Had you laid a hand on us in anger, you would have lost that hand. You are only a boy, so we will forget what happened here. You should do the same.” But as he left, the boy looked back over his shoulder, and when she saw his eyes Dany thought, The harpy has another son.

And so her day crept by, tedious and terrifying by turns. By midday Daenerys was feeling the weight of the crown upon her head, and the hardness of the bench beneath her. With so many still waiting on her pleasure, she did not stop to eat. Instead she dispatched Jhiqui to the kitchens for a platter of flatbread, olives, figs, and cheese. She nibbled whilst she listened, and sipped from a cup of watered wine. The figs were fine, the olives even finer, but the wine left a tart metal ic aftertaste in her mouth. The small, pale yellow grapes native to these regions produced a notably inferior vintage. We shal have no trade in wine, Dany realized as she sipped. Besides, the Great Masters had burned the best arbors along with the olive trees.

In the afternoon a sculptor came, proposing to replace the head of the great bronze harpy in the Plaza of Purification with one cast in Dany’s image. She denied him with as much courtesy as she could muster, struggling not to shudder. A pike of unprecedented size had been caught in the Skahazadhan, and the fisherman wished to give it to the queen. She admired the fish extravagantly, rewarded the fisherman with a plump purse of silver, and sent the pike down to her kitchens. A coppersmith had fashioned her a suit of burnished rings to wear to war. She accepted it with fulsome thanks; it was lovely to behold, and all that burnished copper would flash prettily in the sun, though if actual battle threatened she would sooner be clad in steel. Even a young girl who knew nothing of the ways of war knew that.

The slippers the Butcher King had sent her had grown too uncomfortable. Dany kicked them off, and sat with one foot tucked beneath her and the other swinging back and forth. It was not a very regal pose, but she was tired of being regal. The crown had given her a headache, and her buttocks had gone to sleep. “Ser Barristan,” she called, “I know what quality a king needs most.”

“Courage, Your Grace?”

“No,” she teased, “cheeks like iron. All I do is sit.”

“Your Grace takes too much on herself. You should al ow your councillors to shoulder more of your burdens.”

“I have too many councillors. What I need is cushions.” Dany turned to Reznak. “How many more?”

“Three and twenty, if it please Your Magnificence. With as many claims.” The seneschal consulted some papers. “One calf and three goats. The rest will be sheep or lambs, no doubt.”

“Three and twenty.” Dany sighed. “My dragons have developed a prodigious taste for mutton since we began to pay the shepherds for their kil s. Have these claims been proven?”

“Some men have brought burnt bones.”

“Men make fires. Men cook mutton. Burnt bones prove nothing. Brown Ben says there are red wolves in the hills outside the city, and jackals and wild dogs. Must we pay good silver for every lamb that goes astray between Yunkai and the Skahazadhan?”

“No, Magnificence.” Reznak bowed. “Shall I send these rascals away, or will you want them scourged?”



Daenerys shifted on the bench. The ebony felt hard beneath her. “No man should ever fear to come to me. Pay them.” Some claims were false, she did not doubt, but more were genuine. Her dragons had grown too large to be content with rats and cats and dogs, as before. The more they eat the larger they will grow, Ser Barristan had warned her, and the larger they grow, the more they’l eat. Drogon especial y ranged far afield and could easily devour a sheep a day. “Pay them for the value of their animals,” she told Reznak, “but henceforth claimants must present themselves at the Temple of the Graces, and swear a holy oath before the gods of Ghis.”

“It shall be done.” Reznak turned to the petitioners. “Her Magnificence the Queen has consented to compensate each of you for the animals you have lost,” he told them in the Ghiscari tongue. “Present yourselves to my factors on the morrow, and you shall be paid in coin or kind, as you prefer.”

The pronouncement was received in sul en silence. You would think they might be happier, Dany thought, annoyed. They have what they came for. Is there no way to please these people?

One man lingered behind as the rest were filing out; a squat man with a windburnt face, shabbily dressed. His hair was a cap of coarse red-black wire cropped about his ears, and in one hand he held a sad cloth sack. He stood with his head down, gazing at the marble floor as if he had quite forgotten where he was. And what does this one want? Dany wondered, frowning.

“All kneel for Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles and Mother of Dragons,” cried Missandei in her high, sweet voice.

As Dany stood, her tokar began to slip. She caught it and tugged it back into place. “You with the sack,” she called, “did you wish to speak with us? You may approach.”

When he raised his head, his eyes were red and raw as open sores. Dany glimpsed Ser Barristan sliding closer, a white shadow at her side. The man approached in a stumbling shuffle, one step and then another, clutching his sack. Is he drunk, or ill? she wondered. There was dirt beneath his cracked yellow fingernails.

“What is it?” she demanded. “Do you have some grievance to lay before us, some petition?

What would you have of us?”

His tongue flicked nervously over chapped, cracked lips. “I... I brought...”

“Bones?” she said, impatiently. “Burnt bones?”

He lifted the sack, and spilled its contents on the marble.

Bones they were, broken bones and blackened. The longer ones had been cracked open for their marrow.

“It were the black one,” the man said, in a Ghiscari growl, “the winged shadow. He come down from the sky and... and...”

No. Dany shivered. No, no, oh no.

“Are you deaf, fool?” Reznak mo Reznak demanded of the man. “Did you not hear my pronouncement? See my factors on the morrow, and you shal be paid for your sheep.”

“Reznak,” Ser Barristan said quietly, “hold your tongue and open your eyes. Those are no sheep bones.”



No, Dany thought, those are the bones of a child.





Document Outline


VERSION HISTORY

COVER PAGE

TITLE PAGE

CHAPTERS PROLOGUE

1. THE PROPHET

2. THE CAPTAIN OF GUARDS

3. CERSEI

4. BRIENNE

5. SAMWELL

6. ARYA

7. CERSEI

8. JAIME

9. BRIENNE

10. SANSA

11. THE KRAKEN�S DAUGHTER

12. CERSEI

13. THE SOILED KNIGHT

14. BRIENNE

15. SAMWELL

16. JAIME

17. CERSEI

18. THE IRON CAPTAIN

19. THE DROWNED MAN

20. BRIENNE

21. THE QUEENMAKER

22. ARYA

23. ALAYNE

24. CERSEI

25. BRIENNE

26. SAMWELL

27. JAIME

28. CERSEI

29. THE REAVER

30. JAIME

31. BRIENNE

32. CERSEI

33. JAIME

34. CAT OF THE CANALS

35. SAMWELL

36. CERSEI

37. BRIENNE

38. JAIME

39. CERSEI

40. THE PRINCESS IN THE TOWER

41. ALAYNE

42. BRIENNE
