now was a way of getting back at Malfoy, and to their 
great delight, just such a thing arrived in the mail 
about a week later. 

As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual, 
everyone’s attention was caught at once by a long, 
thin package carried by six large screech owls. Harry 
was just as interested as everyone else to see what 
was in this large parcel, and was amazed when the 
owls soared down and dropped it right in front of him, 
knocking his bacon to the floor. They had hardly 
fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a 
letter on top of the parcel. 

Harry ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, 
because it said: 



DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE. 

It contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I 
don’t want everybody knowing you’ve got a 
broomstick or they’ll all want one. Oliver Wood will 
meet you tonight on the Quidditch field at seven 
o’clock for your first training session. 

Professor M. McGonagall 

Harry had difficulty hiding his glee as he handed the 
note to Ron to read. 

Page | 184 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“A Nimbus Two Thousand!” Ron moaned enviously. 
“I’ve never even touched one.” 

They left the hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the 
broomstick in private before their first class, but 
halfway across the entrance hall they found the way 
upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy seized 
the package from Harry and felt it. 

“That’s a broomstick,” he said, throwing it back to 
Harry with a mixture of jealousy and spite on his face. 
“You’ll be in for it this time, Potter, first years aren’t 
allowed them.” 

Ron couldn’t resist it. 

“It’s not any old broomstick,” he said, “it’s a Nimbus 
Two Thousand. What did you say you’ve got at home, 
Malfoy, a Comet Two Sixty?” Ron grinned at Harry. 
“Comets look flashy, but they’re not in the same 
league as the Nimbus.” 

“What would you know about it, Weasley, you 
couldn’t afford half the handle,” Malfoy snapped back. 
“I suppose you and your brothers have to save up 
twig by twig.” 

Before Ron could answer, Professor Flitwick appeared 
at Malfoy’s elbow. 

“Not arguing, I hope, boys?” he squeaked. 

“Potters been sent a broomstick, Professor,” said 
Malfoy quickly. 

“Yes, yes, that’s right,” said Professor Flitwick, 
beaming at Harry. “Professor McGonagall told me all 
about the special circumstances, Potter. And what 
model is it?” 

Page | 185 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“A Nimbus Two Thousand, sir,” said Harry, fighting 
not to laugh at the look of horror on Malfoy’s face. 
“And it’s really thanks to Malfoy here that I’ve got it,” 
he added. 

Harry and Ron headed upstairs, smothering their 
laughter at Malfoy’s obvious rage and confusion. 

“Well, it’s true,” Harry chortled as they reached the 
top of the marble staircase, “If he hadn’t stolen 
Neville’s Remembrall I wouldn’t be on the team. ...” 

“So I suppose you think that’s a reward for breaking 
rules?” came an angry voice from just behind them. 
Hermione was stomping up the stairs, looking 
disapprovingly at the package in Harry’s hand. 

“I thought you weren’t speaking to us?” said Harry. 

“Yes, don’t stop now,” said Ron, “it’s doing us so 
much good.” 

Hermione marched away with her nose in the air. 

Harry had a lot of trouble keeping his mind on his 
lessons that day. It kept wandering up to the 
dormitory where his new broomstick was lying under 
his bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where 
he’d be learning to play that night. He bolted his 
dinner that evening without noticing what he was 
eating, and then rushed upstairs with Ron to unwrap 
the Nimbus Two Thousand at last. 

“Wow,” Ron sighed, as the broomstick rolled onto 
Harry’s bedspread. 

Even Harry, who knew nothing about the different 
brooms, thought it looked wonderful. Sleek and 
shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long tail of 

Page | 186 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand 
written in gold near the top. 

As seven o’clock drew nearer, Harry left the castle and 
set off in the dusk toward the Quidditch field. He’d 
never been inside the stadium before. Hundreds of 
seats were raised in stands around the field so that 
the spectators were high enough to see what was 
going on. At either end of the field were three golden 
poles with hoops on the end. They reminded Harry of 
the little plastic sticks Muggle children blew bubbles 
through, except that they were fifty feet high. 

Too eager to fly again to wait for Wood, Harry 
mounted his broomstick and kicked off from the 
ground. What a feeling — he swooped in and out of 
the goal posts and then sped up and down the field. 
The Nimbus Two Thousand turned wherever he 
wanted at his lightest touch. 

“Hey, Potter, come down!” 

Oliver Wood had arrived. He was carrying a large 
wooden crate under his arm. Harry landed next to 
him. 

“Very nice,” said Wood, his eyes glinting. “I see what 
McGonagall meant ... you really are a natural. I’m 
just going to teach you the rules this evening, then 
you’ll be joining team practice three times a week.” 

He opened the crate. Inside were four different-sized 
balls. 

“Right,” said Wood. “Now, Quidditch is easy enough to 
understand, even if it’s not too easy to play. There are 
seven players on each side. Three of them are called 
Chasers.” 



Page | 187 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Three Chasers,” Harry repeated, as Wood took out a 
bright red ball about the size of a soccer ball. 

“This ball’s called the Quaffle,” said Wood. “The 
Chasers throw the Quaffle to each other and try and 
get it through one of the hoops to score a goal. Ten 
points every time the Quaffle goes through one of the 
hoops. Follow me?” 

“The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through 
the hoops to score,” Harry recited. “So — that’s sort of 
like basketball on broomsticks with six hoops, isn’t 
it?” 



“What’s basketball?” said Wood curiously. 

“Never mind,” said Harry quickly. 

“Now, there’s another player on each side who’s called 
the Keeper — I’m Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly 
around our hoops and stop the other team from 
scoring.” 

“Three Chasers, one Keeper,” said Harry, who was 
determined to remember it all. “And they play with 
the Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what are they for?” He 
pointed at the three balls left inside the box. 

“I’ll show you now,” said Wood. “Take this.” 

He handed Harry a small club, a bit like a short 
baseball bat. 

“I’m going to show you what the Bludgers do,” Wood 
said. “These two are the Bludgers.” 

He showed Harry two identical balls, jet black and 
slightly smaller than the red Quaffle. Harry noticed 



Page | 188 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




that they seemed to be straining to escape the straps 
holding them inside the box. 

“Stand back,” Wood warned Harry. He bent down and 
freed one of the Bludgers. 

At once, the black ball rose high in the air and then 
pelted straight at Harry’s face. Harry swung at it with 
the bat to stop it from breaking his nose, and sent it 
zigzagging away into the air — it zoomed around their 
heads and then shot at Wood, who dived on top of it 
and managed to pin it to the ground. 

“See?” Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger 
back into the crate and strapping it down safely. “The 
Bludgers rocket around, trying to knock players off 
their brooms. That’s why you have two Beaters on 
each team — the Weasley twins are ours — it’s their 
job to protect their side from the Bludgers and try and 
knock them toward the other team. So — think you’ve 
got all that?” 

“Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the 
Keeper guards the goal posts; the Beaters keep the 
Bludgers away from their team,” Harry reeled off. 

“Very good,” said Wood. 

“Er — have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?” Harry 
asked, hoping he sounded offhand. 

“Never at Hogwarts. We’ve had a couple of broken 
jaws but nothing worse than that. Now, the last 
member of the team is the Seeker. That’s you. And 
you don’t have to worry about the Quaffle or the 
Bludgers — ” 

“ — unless they crack my head open.” 



Page | 189 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for 
the Bludgers — I mean, they’re like a pair of human 
Bludgers themselves.” 

Wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth 
and last ball. Compared with the Quaffle and the 
Bludgers, it was tiny, about the size of a large walnut. 
It was bright gold and had little fluttering silver 
wings. 

“This,” said Wood, “is the Golden Snitch, and it’s the 
most important ball of the lot. It’s very hard to catch 
because it’s so fast and difficult to see. It’s the 
Seeker’s job to catch it. You’ve got to weave in and out 
of the Chasers, Beaters, Bludgers, and Quaffle to get 
it before the other team’s Seeker, because whichever 
Seeker catches the Snitch wins his team an extra 
hundred and fifty points, so they nearly always win. 
That’s why Seekers get fouled so much. A game of 
Quidditch only ends when the Snitch is caught, so it 
can go on for ages — I think the record is three 
months, they had to keep bringing on substitutes so 
the players could get some sleep. 

“Well, that’s it — any questions?” 

Harry shook his head. He understood what he had to 
do all right, it was doing it that was going to be the 
problem. 

“We won’t practice with the Snitch yet,” said Wood, 
carefully shutting it back inside the crate, “it’s too 
dark, we might lose it. Let’s try you out with a few of 
these.” 

He pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of his pocket 
and a few minutes later, he and Harry were up in the 
air, Wood throwing the golf balls as hard as he could 
in every direction for Harry to catch. 

Page | 190 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry didn’t miss a single one, and Wood was 
delighted. After half an hour, night had really fallen 
and they couldn’t carry on. 

“That Quidditch Cup’ll have our name on it this year,” 
said Wood happily as they trudged back up to the 
castle. “I wouldn’t be surprised if you turn out better 
than Charlie Weasley, and he could have played for 
England if he hadn’t gone off chasing dragons.” 

Perhaps it was because he was now so busy, what 
with Quidditch practice three evenings a week on top 
of all his homework, but Harry could hardly believe it 
when he realized that he’d already been at Hogwarts 
two months. The castle felt more like home than 
Privet Drive ever had. His lessons, too, were becoming 
more and more interesting now that they had 
mastered the basics. 

On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious 
smell of baking pumpkin wafting through the 
corridors. Even better, Professor Flitwick announced 
in Charms that he thought they were ready to start 
making objects fly, something they had all been dying 
to try since they’d seen him make Neville’s toad zoom 
around the classroom. Professor Flitwick put the 
class into pairs to practice. Harry’s partner was 
Seamus Finnigan (which was a relief, because Neville 
had been trying to catch his eye). Ron, however, was 
to be working with Hermione Granger. It was hard to 
tell whether Ron or Hermione was angrier about this. 
She hadn’t spoken to either of them since the day 
Harry’s broomstick had arrived. 

“Now, don’t forget that nice wrist movement we’ve 
been practicing!” squeaked Professor Flitwick, 
perched on top of his pile of books as usual. “Swish 
and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the 
magic words properly is very important, too — never 
Page | 191 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




forget Wizard Baruffio, who said ‘s’ instead of ‘f and 
found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his 
chest.” 

It was very difficult. Harry and Seamus swished and 
flicked, but the feather they were supposed to be 
sending skyward just lay on the desktop. Seamus got 
so impatient that he prodded it with his wand and set 
fire to it — Harry had to put it out with his hat. 

Ron, at the next table, wasn’t having much more 
luck. 

“Wingardium Leviosal” he shouted, waving his long 
arms like a windmill. 

“You’re saying it wrong,” Harry heard Hermione snap. 
“It’s Wing-gar-dium Levi-o-sa, make the ‘gar’ nice and 
long.” 

“You do it, then, if you’re so clever,” Ron snarled. 

Hermione rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flicked 
her wand, and said, “Wingardium LeviosaV’ 

Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four 
feet above their heads. 

“Oh, well done!” cried Professor Flitwick, clapping. 
“Everyone see here, Miss Granger’s done it!” 

Ron was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. 

“It’s no wonder no one can stand her,” he said to 
Harry as they pushed their way into the crowded 
corridor, “she’s a nightmare, honestly.” 



Page | 192 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Someone knocked into Harry as they hurried past 
him. It was Hermione. Harry caught a glimpse of her 
face — and was startled to see that she was in tears. 

“I think she heard you.” 

“So?” said Ron, but he looked a bit uncomfortable. 
“She must’ve noticed she’s got no friends.” 

Hermione didn’t turn up for the next class and wasn’t 
seen all afternoon. On their way down to the Great 
Hall for the Halloween feast, Harry and Ron overheard 
Parvati Patil telling her friend Lavender that Hermione 
was crying in the girls’ bathroom and wanted to be 
left alone. Ron looked still more awkward at this, but 
a moment later they had entered the Great Hall, 
where the Halloween decorations put Hermione out of 
their minds. 

A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and 
ceiling while a thousand more swooped over the 
tables in low black clouds, making the candles in the 
pumpkins stutter. The feast appeared suddenly on 
the golden plates, as it had at the start-of-term 
banquet. 

Harry was just helping himself to a baked potato 
when Professor Quirrell came sprinting into the hall, 
his turban askew and terror on his face. Everyone 
stared as he reached Professor Dumbledore’s chair, 
slumped against the table, and gasped, “Troll — in 
the dungeons — thought you ought to know.” 

He then sank to the floor in a dead faint. 

There was an uproar. It took several purple 
firecrackers exploding from the end of Professor 
Dumbledore’s wand to bring silence. 



Page | 193 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Prefects,” he rumbled, “lead your Houses back to the 
dormitories immediately!” 

Percy was in his element. 

“Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear 
the troll if you follow my orders! Stay close behind 
me, now. Make way, first years coming through! 
Excuse me, I’m a prefect!” 

“How could a troll get in?” Harry asked as they 
climbed the stairs. 

“Don’t ask me, they’re supposed to be really stupid,” 
said Ron. “Maybe Peeves let it in for a Halloween 
joke.” 

They passed different groups of people hurrying in 
different directions. As they jostled their way through 
a crowd of confused Hufflepuffs, Harry suddenly 
grabbed Ron’s arm. 

“I’ve just thought — Hermione.” 

“What about her?” 

“She doesn’t know about the troll.” 

Ron bit his lip. 

“Oh, all right,” he snapped. “But Percy’d better not 
see us.” 

Ducking down, they joined the Hufflepuffs going the 
other way, slipped down a deserted side corridor, and 
hurried off toward the girls’ bathroom. They had just 
turned the corner when they heard quick footsteps 
behind them. 



Page | 194 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Percy!” hissed Ron, pulling Harry behind a large 
stone griffin. 

Peering around it, however, they saw not Percy but 
Snape. He crossed the corridor and disappeared from 
view. 

“What’s he doing?” Harry whispered. “Why isn’t he 
down in the dungeons with the rest of the teachers?” 

“Search me.” 

Quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor 
after Snape ’s fading footsteps. 

“He’s heading for the third floor,” Harry said, but Ron 
held up his hand. 

“Can you smell something?” 

Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils, a 
mixture of old socks and the kind of public toilet no 
one seems to clean. 

And then they heard it — a low grunting, and the 
shuffling footfalls of gigantic feet. Ron pointed — at 
the end of a passage to the left, something huge was 
moving toward them. They shrank into the shadows 
and watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight. 

It was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, its skin was a 
dull, granite gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder 
with its small bald head perched on top like a 
coconut. It had short legs thick as tree trunks with 
flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it was 
incredible. It was holding a huge wooden club, which 
dragged along the floor because its arms were so long. 



Page | 195 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




The troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. 
It waggled its long ears, making up its tiny mind, then 
slouched slowly into the room. 

“The key’s in the lock,” Harry muttered. “We could 
lock it in.” 

“Good idea,” said Ron nervously. 

They edged toward the open door, mouths dry, 
praying the troll wasn’t about to come out of it. With 
one great leap, Harry managed to grab the key, slam 
the door, and lock it. 

“Yes!” 

Flushed with their victory, they started to run back 
up the passage, but as they reached the corner they 
heard something that made their hearts stop — a 
high, petrified scream — and it was coming from the 
chamber they’d just chained up. 

“Oh, no,” said Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron. 

“It’s the girls’ bathroom!” Harry gasped. 

“ Hermionel” they said together. 

It was the last thing they wanted to do, but what 
choice did they have? Wheeling around, they sprinted 
back to the door and turned the key, fumbling in their 
panic. Harry pulled the door open and they ran 
inside. 

Hermione Granger was shrinking against the wall 
opposite, looking as if she was about to faint. The troll 
was advancing on her, knocking the sinks off the 
walls as it went. 



Page | 196 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Confuse it!” Harry said desperately to Ron, and, 
seizing a tap, he threw it as hard as he could against 
the wall. 

The troll stopped a few feet from Hermione. It 
lumbered around, blinking stupidly, to see what had 
made the noise. Its mean little eyes saw Harry. It 
hesitated, then made for him instead, lifting its club 
as it went. 

“Oy, pea-brain!” yelled Ron from the other side of the 
chamber, and he threw a metal pipe at it. The troll 
didn’t even seem to notice the pipe hitting its 
shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again, 
turning its ugly snout toward Ron instead, giving 
Harry time to run around it. 

“Come on, run, run\” Harry yelled at Hermione, trying 
to pull her toward the door, but she couldn’t move, 
she was still flat against the wall, her mouth open 
with terror. 

The shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the 
troll berserk. It roared again and started toward Ron, 
who was nearest and had no way to escape. 

Harry then did something that was both very brave 
and very stupid: He took a great running jump and 
managed to fasten his arms around the troll’s neck 
from behind. The troll couldn’t feel Harry hanging 
there, but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit 
of wood up its nose, and Harry’s wand had still been 
in his hand when he’d jumped — it had gone straight 
up one of the troll’s nostrils. 

Howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its 
club, with Harry clinging on for dear life; any second, 
the troll was going to rip him off or catch him a 
terrible blow with the club. 

Page | 197 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione had sunk to the floor in fright; Ron pulled 
out his own wand — not knowing what he was going 
to do he heard himself cry the first spell that came 
into his head: “Wingardium Leviosal” 

The club flew suddenly out of the troll’s hand, rose 
high, high up into the air, turned slowly over — and 
dropped, with a sickening crack, onto its owner’s 
head. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat 
on its face, with a thud that made the whole room 
tremble. 

Harry got to his feet. He was shaking and out of 
breath. Ron was standing there with his wand still 
raised, staring at what he had done. 

It was Hermione who spoke first. 

“Is it — dead?” 

“I don’t think so,” said Harry, “I think it’s just been 
knocked out.” 

He bent down and pulled his wand out of the troll’s 
nose. It was covered in what looked like lumpy gray 
glue. 

“Urgh — troll boogers.” 

He wiped it on the troll’s trousers. 

A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the 
three of them look up. They hadn’t realized what a 
racket they had been making, but of course, someone 
downstairs must have heard the crashes and the 
troll’s roars. A moment later, Professor McGonagall 
had come bursting into the room, closely followed by 
Snape, with Quirrell bringing up the rear. Quirrell 



Page | 198 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




took one look at the troll, let out a faint whimper, and 
sat quickly down on a toilet, clutching his heart. 

Snape bent over the troll. Professor McGonagall was 
looking at Ron and Harry. Harry had never seen her 
look so angry. Her lips were white. Hopes of winning 
fifty points for Gryffindor faded quickly from Harry’s 
mind. 

“What on earth were you thinking of?” said Professor 
McGonagall, with cold fury in her voice. Harry looked 
at Ron, who was still standing with his wand in the 
air. “You’re lucky you weren’t killed. Why aren’t you 
in your dormitory?” 

Snape gave Harry a swift, piercing look. Harry looked 
at the floor. He wished Ron would put his wand down. 

Then a small voice came out of the shadows. 

“Please, Professor McGonagall — they were looking for 
me.” 

“Miss Granger!” 

Hermione had managed to get to her feet at last. 

“I went looking for the troll because I — I thought I 
could deal with it on my own — you know, because 
I’ve read all about them.” 

Ron dropped his wand. Hermione Granger, telling a 
downright lie to a teacher? 

“If they hadn’t found me, I’d be dead now. Harry 
stuck his wand up its nose and Ron knocked it out 
with its own club. They didn’t have time to come and 
fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when they 
arrived.” 

Page | 199 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry and Ron tried to look as though this story 
wasn’t new to them. 

“Well — in that case ...” said Professor McGonagall, 
staring at the three of them, “Miss Granger, you 
foolish girl, how could you think of tackling a 
mountain troll on your own?” 

Hermione hung her head. Harry was speechless. 
Hermione was the last person to do anything against 
the rules, and here she was, pretending she had, to 
get them out of trouble. It was as if Snape had started 
handing out sweets. 

“Miss Granger, five points will be taken from 
Gryffindor for this,” said Professor McGonagall. “I’m 
very disappointed in you. If you’re not hurt at all, 
you’d better get off to Gryffindor Tower. Students are 
finishing the feast in their Houses.” 

Hermione left. 

Professor McGonagall turned to Harry and Ron. 

“Well, I still say you were lucky, but not many first 
years could have taken on a full-grown mountain 
troll. You each win Gryffindor five points. Professor 
Dumbledore will be informed of this. You may go.” 

They hurried out of the chamber and didn’t speak at 
all until they had climbed two floors up. It was a relief 
to be away from the smell of the troll, quite apart from 
anything else. 

“We should have gotten more than ten points,” Ron 
grumbled. 

“Five, you mean, once she’s taken off Hermione ’s.” 



Page | 200 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Good of her to get us out of trouble like that,” Ron 
admitted. “Mind you, we did save her.” 

“She might not have needed saving if we hadn’t 
locked the thing in with her,” Harry reminded him. 

They had reached the portrait of the Fat Lady. 

“Pig snout,” they said and entered. 

The common room was packed and noisy. Everyone 
was eating the food that had been sent up. Hermione, 
however, stood alone by the door, waiting for them. 
There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of 
them looking at each other, they all said “Thanks,” 
and hurried off to get plates. 

But from that moment on, Hermione Granger became 
their friend. There are some things you can’t share 
without ending up liking each other, and knocking 
out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them. 



Page | 201 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 





QUIDDITCH 

As they entered November, the weather turned very 
cold. The mountains around the school became icy 
gray and the lake like chilled steel. Every morning the 
ground was covered in frost. Hagrid could be seen 
from the upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on 
the Quidditch field, bundled up in a long moleskin 
overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous beaverskin 
boots. 

The Quidditch season had begun. On Saturday, Harry 
would be playing in his first match after weeks of 
training: Gryffindor versus Slytherin. If Gryffindor 
won, they would move up into second place in the 
House Championship. 

Hardly anyone had seen Harry play because Wood 
had decided that, as their secret weapon, Harry 
should be kept, well, secret. But the news that he was 
playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, and Harry 
didn’t know which was worse — people telling him 
he’d be brilliant or people telling him they’d be 
running around underneath him holding a mattress. 
Page | 202 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



It was really lucky that Harry now had Hermione as a 
friend. He didn’t know how he’d have gotten through 
all his homework without her, what with all the last- 
minute Quidditch practice Wood was making them 
do. She had also lent him Quidditch Through the Ages, 
which turned out to be a very interesting read. 

Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of 
committing a Quidditch foul and that all of them had 
happened during a World Cup match in 1473; that 
Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest players, 
and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to 
happen to them; that although people rarely died 
playing Quidditch, referees had been known to vanish 
and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert. 

Hermione had become a bit more relaxed about 
breaking rules since Harry and Ron had saved her 
from the mountain troll, and she was much nicer for 
it. The day before Harry’s first Quidditch match the 
three of them were out in the freezing courtyard 
during break, and she had conjured them up a bright 
blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar. 
They were standing with their backs to it, getting 
warm, when Snape crossed the yard. Harry noticed at 
once that Snape was limping. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione moved closer together to block the fire from 
view; they were sure it wouldn’t be allowed. 
Unfortunately, something about their guilty faces 
caught Snape’s eye. He limped over. He hadn’t seen 
the fire, but he seemed to be looking for a reason to 
tell them off anyway. 

“What’s that you’ve got there, Potter?” 

It was Quidditch Through the Ages. Harry showed him. 



Page | 203 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Library books are not to be taken outside the 
school,” said Snape. “Give it to me. Five points from 
Gryffindor.” 

“He’s just made that rule up,” Harry muttered angrily 
as Snape limped away. “Wonder what’s wrong with 
his leg?” 

“Dunno, but I hope it’s really hurting him,” said Ron 
bitterly. 

The Gryffindor common room was very noisy that 
evening. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat together next 
to a window. Hermione was checking Harry and Ron’s 
Charms homework for them. She would never let 
them copy (“How will you learn?”), but by asking her 
to read it through, they got the right answers anyway. 

Harry felt restless. He wanted Quidditch Through the 
Ages back, to take his mind off his nerves about 
tomorrow. Why should he be afraid of Snape? Getting 
up, he told Ron and Hermione he was going to ask 
Snape if he could have it. 

“Better you than me,” they said together, but Harry 
had an idea that Snape wouldn’t refuse if there were 
other teachers listening. 

He made his way down to the staffroom and knocked. 
There was no answer. He knocked again. Nothing. 

Perhaps Snape had left the book in there? It was 
worth a try. He pushed the door ajar and peered 
inside — and a horrible scene met his eyes. 

Snape and Filch were inside, alone. Snape was 
holding his robes above his knees. One of his legs was 
bloody and mangled. Filch was handing Snape 
bandages. 

Page | 204 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Blasted thing,” Snape was saying. “How are you 
supposed to keep your eyes on all three heads at 
once?” 

Harry tried to shut the door quietly, but — 

“POTTER!” 

Snape ’s face was twisted with fury as he dropped his 
robes quickly to hide his leg. Harry gulped. 

“I just wondered if I could have my book back.” 

“GET OUT! OUT!” 

Harry left, before Snape could take any more points 
from Gryffindor. He sprinted back upstairs. 

“Did you get it?” Ron asked as Harry joined them. 
“What’s the matter?” 

In a low whisper, Harry told them what he’d seen. 

“You know what this means?” he finished 
breathlessly. “He tried to get past that three-headed 
dog at Halloween! That’s where he was going when we 
saw him — he’s after whatever it’s guarding! And I’d 
bet my broomstick he let that troll in, to make a 
diversion!” 

Hermione’s eyes were wide. 

“No — he wouldn’t,” she said. “I know he’s not very 
nice, but he wouldn’t try and steal something 
Dumbledore was keeping safe.” 

“Honestly, Hermione, you think all teachers are saints 
or something,” snapped Ron. “I’m with Harry. I 



Page | 205 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




wouldn’t put anything past Snape. But what’s he 
after? What’s that dog guarding?” 

Harry went to bed with his head buzzing with the 
same question. Neville was snoring loudly, but Harry 
couldn’t sleep. He tried to empty his mind — he 
needed to sleep, he had to, he had his first Quidditch 
match in a few hours — but the expression on 
Snape’s face when Harry had seen his leg wasn’t easy 
to forget. 

The next morning dawned very bright and cold. The 
Great Hall was full of the delicious smell of fried 
sausages and the cheerful chatter of everyone looking 
forward to a good Quidditch match. 

“You’ve got to eat some breakfast.” 

“I don’t want anything.” 

“Just a bit of toast,” wheedled Hermione. 

“I’m not hungry.” 

Harry felt terrible. In an hour’s time he’d be walking 
onto the field. 

“Harry, you need your strength,” said Seamus 
Finnigan. “Seekers are always the ones who get 
clobbered by the other team.” 

“Thanks, Seamus,” said Harry, watching Seamus pile 
ketchup on his sausages. 

By eleven o’clock the whole school seemed to be out 
in the stands around the Quidditch pitch. Many 
students had binoculars. The seats might be raised 
high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what 
was going on sometimes. 

Page | 206 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 

