“I’ve got a couple behind the bar,” she said, looking 
very frightened. “Shall I run and fetch — ?” 

“No, Harry can do it.” 

Harry raised his wand at once. 

“Accio Rosmerta’s Broomsl” 

A second later they heard a loud bang as the front 
door of the pub burst open; two brooms had shot out 
into the street and were racing each other to Harry’s 
side, where they stopped dead, quivering slightly at 
waist height. 

“Rosmerta, please send a message to the Ministry,” 
said Dumbledore, as he mounted the broom nearest 
him. “It might be that nobody within Hogwarts has 
yet realized anything is wrong. . . . Harry, put on your 
Invisibility Cloak.” 



Page | 654 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry pulled his Cloak out of his pocket and threw it 
over himself before mounting his broom: Madam 
Rosmerta was already tottering back toward her pub 
as Harry and Dumbledore kicked off from the ground 
and rose up into the air. As they sped toward the 
castle, Harry glanced sideways at Dumbledore, ready 
to grab him should he fall, but the sight of the Dark 
Mark seemed to have acted upon Dumbledore like a 
stimulant: He was bent low over his broom, his eyes 
fixed upon the Mark, his long silver hair and beard 
flying behind him on the night air. And Harry too 
looked ahead at the skull, and fear swelled inside him 
like a venomous bubble, compressing his lungs, 
driving all other discomfort from his mind. ... 

How long had they been away? Had Ron, Hermione, 
and Ginny’s luck run out by now? Was it one of them 
who had caused the Mark to be set over the school, or 
was it Neville, or Luna, or some other member of the 
D.A.? And if it was ... he was the one who had told 
them to patrol the corridors, he had asked them to 
leave the safety of their beds. ... Would he be 
responsible, again, for the death of a friend? 

As they flew over the dark, twisting lane down which 
they had walked earlier, Harry heard, over the 
whistling of the night air in his ears, Dumbledore 
muttering in some strange language again. He 
thought he understood why as he felt his broom 
shudder when they flew over the boundary wall into 
the grounds: Dumbledore was undoing the 
enchantments he himself had set around the castle 
so they could enter at speed. The Dark Mark was 
glittering directly above the Astronomy Tower, the 
highest of the castle. Did that mean the death had 
occurred there? 



Page | 655 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore had already crossed the crenellated 
ramparts and was dismounting; Harry landed next to 
him seconds later and looked around. 

The ramparts were deserted. The door to the spiral 
staircase that led back into the castle was closed. 
There was no sign of a struggle, of a fight to the 
death, of a body. 

“What does it mean?” Harry asked Dumbledore, 
looking up at the green skull with its serpent’s tongue 
glinting evilly above them. “Is it the real Mark? Has 
someone definitely been — Professor?” 

In the dim green glow from the Mark, Harry saw 
Dumbledore clutching at his chest with his blackened 
hand. 

“Go and wake Severus,” said Dumbledore faintly but 
clearly. “Tell him what has happened and bring him 
to me. Do nothing else, speak to nobody else, and do 
not remove your cloak. I shall wait here.” 

“But — ” 

“You swore to obey me, Harry — go!” 

Harry hurried over to the door leading to the spiral 
staircase, but his hand had only just closed upon the 
iron ring of the door when he heard running footsteps 
on the other side. He looked around at Dumbledore, 
who gestured him to retreat. Harry backed away, 
drawing his wand as he did so. 

The door burst open and somebody erupted through 
it and shouted, “Expelliarmus\” 

Harry’s body became instantly rigid and immobile, 
and he felt himself fall back against the tower wall, 

Page | 656 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




propped like an unsteady statue, unable to move or 
speak. He could not understand how it had happened 
— Expelliarmus was not a Freezing Charm — 

Then, by the light of the Mark, he saw Dumbledore ’s 
wand flying in an arc over the edge of the ramparts 
and understood. ... Dumbledore had wordlessly 
immobilized Harry, and the second he had taken to 
perform the spell had cost him the chance of 
defending himself. 

Standing against the ramparts, very white in the face, 
Dumbledore still showed no sign of panic or distress. 
He merely looked across at his disarmer and said, 
“Good evening, Draco.” 

Malfoy stepped forward, glancing around quickly to 
check that he and Dumbledore were alone. His eyes 
fell upon the second broom. 

“Who else is here?” 

“A question I might ask you. Or are you acting alone?” 

Harry saw Malfoy’s pale eyes shift back to 
Dumbledore in the greenish glare of the Mark. 

“No,” he said. “I’ve got backup. There are Death 
Eaters here in your school tonight.” 

“Well, well,” said Dumbledore, as though Malfoy was 
showing him an ambitious homework project. “Very 
good indeed. You found a way to let them in, did 
you?” 

“Yeah,” said Malfoy, who was panting. “Right under 
your nose and you never realized!” 



Page | 657 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Ingenious,” said Dumbledore. “Yet ... forgive me ... 
where are they now? You seem unsupported.” 

“They met some of your guards. They’re having a fight 
down below. They won’t be long. ... I came on ahead. I 
— I’ve got a job to do.” 

“Well, then, you must get on and do it, my dear boy,” 
said Dumbledore softly. 

There was silence. Harry stood imprisoned within his 
own invisible, paralyzed body, staring at the two of 
them, his ears straining to hear sounds of the Death 
Eaters’ distant fight, and in front of him, Draco 
Malfoy did nothing but stare at Albus Dumbledore, 
who, incredibly, smiled. 

“Draco, Draco, you are not a killer.” 

“How do you know?” said Malfoy at once. 

He seemed to realize how childish the words had 
sounded; Harry saw him flush in the Mark’s greenish 
light. 

“You don’t know what I’m capable of,” said Malfoy 
more forcefully. “You don’t know what I’ve done!” 

“Oh yes, I do,” said Dumbledore mildly. “You almost 
killed Katie Bell and Ronald Weasley. You have been 
trying, with increasing desperation, to kill me all year. 
Forgive me, Draco, but they have been feeble 
attempts. ... So feeble, to be honest, that I wonder 
whether your heart has been really in it.” 

“It has been in it!” said Malfoy vehemently. “I’ve been 
working on it all year, and tonight — ” 



Page | 658 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Somewhere in the depths of the castle below Harry 
heard a muffled yell. Malfoy stiffened and glanced 
over his shoulder. 

“Somebody is putting up a good fight,” said 
Dumbledore conversationally. “But you were saying ... 
yes, you have managed to introduce Death Eaters 
into my school, which, I admit, I thought impossible. 

. . . How did you do it?” 

But Malfoy said nothing: He was still listening to 
whatever was happening below and seemed almost as 
paralyzed as Harry was. 

“Perhaps you ought to get on with the job alone,” 
suggested Dumbledore. “What if your backup has 
been thwarted by my guard? As you have perhaps 
realized, there are members of the Order of the 
Phoenix here tonight too. And after all, you don’t 
really need help. ... I have no wand at the moment. ... 

I cannot defend myself.” 

Malfoy merely stared at him. 

“I see,” said Dumbledore kindly, when Malfoy neither 
moved nor spoke. “You are afraid to act until they join 
you.” 

“I’m not afraid!” snarled Malfoy, though he still made 
no move to hurt Dumbledore. “It’s you who should be 
scared!” 

“But why? I don’t think you will kill me, Draco. Killing 
is not nearly as easy as the innocent believe. ... So tell 
me, while we wait for your friends ... how did you 
smuggle them in here? It seems to have taken you a 
long time to work out how to do it.” 



Page | 659 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy looked as though he was fighting down the 
urge to shout, or to vomit. He gulped and took several 
deep breaths, glaring at Dumbledore, his wand 
pointing directly at the latter’s heart. Then, as though 
he could not help himself, he said, “I had to mend 
that broken Vanishing Cabinet that no one’s used for 
years. The one Montague got lost in last year.” 

“Aaaah.” Dumbledore’s sigh was half a groan. He 
closed his eyes for a moment. “That was clever. ... 
There is a pair, I take it?” 

“In Borgin and Burkes,” said Malfoy, “and they make 
a kind of passage between them. Montague told me 
that when he was stuck in the Hogwarts one, he was 
trapped in limbo but sometimes he could hear what 
was going on at school, and sometimes what was 
going on in the shop, as if the cabinet was traveling 
between them, but he couldn’t make anyone hear 
him. ... In the end, he managed to Apparate out, even 
though he’d never passed his test. He nearly died 
doing it. Everyone thought it was a really good story, 
but I was the only one who realized what it meant — 
even Borgin didn’t know — I was the one who realized 
there could be a way into Hogwarts through the 
cabinets if I fixed the broken one.” 

“Very good,” murmured Dumbledore. “So the Death 
Eaters were able to pass from Borgin and Burkes into 
the school to help you. ... A clever plan, a very clever 
plan ... and, as you say, right under my nose.” 

“Yeah,” said Malfoy, who bizarrely seemed to draw 
courage and comfort from Dumbledore’s praise. 

“Yeah, it was!” 

“But there were times,” Dumbledore went on, “weren’t 
there, when you were not sure you would succeed in 
mending the cabinet? And you resorted to crude and 

Page | 660 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




badly judged measures such as sending me a cursed 
necklace that was bound to reach the wrong hands . . 
poisoning mead there was only the slightest chance I 
might drink. ...” 

“Yeah, well, you still didn’t realize who was behind 
that stuff, did you?” sneered Malfoy, as Dumbledore 
slid a little down the ramparts, the strength in his 
legs apparently fading, and Harry struggled 
fruitlessly, mutely, against the enchantment binding 
him. 

“As a matter of fact, I did,” said Dumbledore. “I was 
sure it was you. 

“Why didn’t you stop me, then?” Malfoy demanded. 

“I tried, Draco. Professor Snape has been keeping 
watch over you on my orders — ” 

“He hasn’t been doing your orders, he promised my 
mother — ” 

“Of course that is what he would tell you, Draco, but 



“He’s a double agent, you stupid old man, he isn’t 
working for you, you just think he is!” 

“We must agree to differ on that, Draco. It so happens 
that I trust Professor Snape — ” 

“Well, you’re losing your grip, then!” sneered Malfoy. 
“He’s been offering me plenty of help — wanting all 
the glory for himself — wanting a bit of the action — 
What are you doing?’ ‘Did you do the necklace, that 
was stupid, it could have blown everything — ’ But I 
haven’t told him what I’ve been doing in the Room of 
Requirement, he’s going to wake up tomorrow and it’ll 
Page | 661 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




all be over and he won’t be the Dark Lord’s favorite 
anymore, he’ll be nothing compared to me, nothing!” 



“Very gratifying,” said Dumbledore mildly. “We all like 
appreciation for our own hard work, of course. But 
you must have had an accomplice, all the same ... 
someone in Hogsmeade, someone who was able to 
slip Katie the — the — aaaah ...” 

Dumbledore closed his eyes again and nodded, as 
though he was about to fall asleep. "... of course ... 
Rosmerta. How long has she been under the Imperius 
Curse?” 

“Got there at last, have you?” Malfoy taunted. 

There was another yell from below, rather louder than 
the last. Malfoy looked nervously over his shoulder 
again, then back at Dumbledore, who went on: “So 
poor Rosmerta was forced to lurk in her own 
bathroom and pass that necklace to any Hogwarts 
student who entered the room unaccompanied? And 
the poisoned mead ... well, naturally, Rosmerta was 
able to poison it for you before she sent the bottle to 
Slughorn, believing that it was to be my Christmas 
present. ... Yes, very neat ... very neat ... Poor Mr. 
Filch would not, of course, think to check a bottle of 
Rosmerta’s. Tell me, how have you been 
communicating with Rosmerta? I thought we had all 
methods of communication in and out of the school 
monitored.” 

“Enchanted coins,” said Malfoy, as though he was 
compelled to keep talking, though his wand hand was 
shaking badly. “I had one and she had the other and I 
could send her messages — ” 

“Isn’t that the secret method of communication the 
group that called themselves Dumbledore ’s Army 

Page | 662 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




used last year?” asked Dumbledore. His voice was 
light and conversational, but Harry saw him slip an 
inch lower down the wall as he said it. 

“Yeah, I got the idea from them,” said Malfoy, with a 
twisted smile. “I got the idea of poisoning the mead 
from the Mudblood Granger as well, I heard her 
talking in the library about Filch not recognizing 
potions.” 

“Please do not use that offensive word in front of me,” 
said Dumbledore. 

Malfoy gave a harsh laugh. “You care about me saying 
‘Mudblood’ when I’m about to kill you?” 

“Yes, I do,” said Dumbledore, and Harry saw his feet 
slide a little on the floor as he struggled to remain 
upright. “But as for being about to kill me, Draco, you 
have had several long minutes now, we are quite 
alone, I am more defenseless than you can have 
dreamed of finding me, and still you have not acted. 



Malfoy’s mouth contorted involuntarily, as though he 
had tasted something very bitter. 

“Now, about tonight,” Dumbledore went on, “I am a 
little puzzled about how it happened. ... You knew 
that I had left the school? But of course,” he 
answered his own question, “Rosmerta saw me 
leaving, she tipped you off using your ingenious 
coins, I’m sure.” 

“That’s right,” said Malfoy. “But she said you were 
just going for a drink, you’d be back. ...” 



Page | 663 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, I certainly did have a drink ... and I came back 
... after a fashion,” mumbled Dumbledore. “So you 
decided to spring a trap for me?” 

“We decided to put the Dark Mark over the tower and 
get you to hurry up here, to see who’d been killed,” 
said Malfoy. “And it worked!” 

“Well ... yes and no ...” said Dumbledore. “But am I to 
take it, then, that nobody has been murdered?” 

“Someone’s dead,” said Malfoy, and his voice seemed 
to go up an octave as he said it. “One of your people 
...I don’t know who, it was dark. ... I stepped over the 
body. ... I was supposed to be waiting up here when 
you got back, only your Phoenix lot got in the way. ...” 

“Yes, they do that,” said Dumbledore. 

There was a bang and shouts from below, louder than 
ever; it sounded as though people were fighting on the 
actual spiral staircase that led to where Dumbledore, 
Malfoy, and Harry stood, and Harry’s heart thundered 
unheard in his invisible chest. ... Someone was dead. 

. . . Malfoy had stepped over the body . . . but who was 
it? 



“There is little time, one way or another,” said 
Dumbledore. “So let us discuss your options, Draco.” 

“My options!” said Malfoy loudly. “I’m standing here 
with a wand — I’m about to kill you — ” 

“My dear boy, let us have no more pretense about 
that. If you were going to kill me, you would have 
done it when you first disarmed me, you would not 
have stopped for this pleasant chat about ways and 
means.” 



Page | 664 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I haven’t got any options!” said Malfoy, and he was 
suddenly white as Dumbledore. “I’ve got to do it! He’ll 
kill me! He’ll kill my whole family!” 

“I appreciate the difficulty of your position,” said 
Dumbledore. “Why else do you think I have not 
confronted you before now? Because I knew that you 
would have been murdered if Lord Voldemort realized 
that I suspected you.” 

Malfoy winced at the sound of the name. 

“I did not dare speak to you of the mission with which 
I knew you had been entrusted, in case he used 
Legilimency against you,” continued Dumbledore. 

“But now at last we can speak plainly to each other. 

... No harm has been done, you have hurt nobody, 
though you are very lucky that your unintentional 
victims survived. ... I can help you, Draco.” 

“No, you can’t,” said Malfoy, his wand hand shaking 
very badly indeed. “Nobody can. He told me to do it or 
he’ll kill me. I’ve got no choice.” 

“Come over to the right side, Draco, and we can hide 
you more completely than you can possibly imagine. 
What is more, I can send members of the Order to 
your mother tonight to hide her likewise. Your father 
is safe at the moment in Azkaban. ... When the time 
comes, we can protect him too. Come over to the right 
side, Draco ... you are not a killer. ...” 

Malfoy stared at Dumbledore. 

“But I got this far, didn’t I?” he said slowly. “They 
thought I’d die in the attempt, but I’m here ... and 
you’re in my power. ... I’m the one with the wand. ... 
You’re at my mercy. ...” 



Page | 665 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No, Draco,” said Dumbledore quietly. “It is my mercy, 
and not yours, that matters now.” 

Malfoy did not speak. His mouth was open, his wand 
hand still trembling. Harry thought he saw it drop by 
a fraction — 

But suddenly footsteps were thundering up the stairs, 
and a second later Malfoy was buffeted out of the way 
as four people in black robes burst through the door 
onto the ramparts. Still paralyzed, his eyes staring 
unblinkingly, Harry gazed in terror upon four 
strangers: It seemed the Death Eaters had won the 
fight below. 

A lumpy-looking man with an odd lopsided leer gave a 
wheezy giggle. 

“Dumbledore cornered!” he said, and he turned to a 
stocky little woman who looked as though she could 
be his sister and who was grinning eagerly. 
“Dumbledore wandless, Dumbledore alone! Well done, 
Draco, well done!” 

“Good evening, Amycus,” said Dumbledore calmly, as 
though welcoming the man to a tea party. “And you’ve 
brought Alecto too. ... Charming ...” 

The woman gave an angry little titter. “Think your 
little jokes’ll help you on your deathbed then?” she 
jeered. 

“Jokes? No, no, these are manners,” replied 
Dumbledore. 

“Do it,” said the stranger standing nearest to Harry, a 
big, rangy man with matted gray hair and whiskers, 
whose black Death Eater’s robes looked 
uncomfortably tight. He had a voice like none that 

Page | 666 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had ever heard: a rasping bark of a voice. Harry 
could smell a powerful mixture of dirt, sweat, and, 
unmistakably, of blood coming from him. His filthy 
hands had long yellowish nails. 

“Is that you, Fenrir?” asked Dumbledore. 

“That’s right,” rasped the other. “Pleased to see me, 
Dumbledore?” 

“No, I cannot say that I am.” 

Greyback grinned, showing pointed teeth. Blood 
trickled down his chin and he licked his lips slowly, 
obscenely. 

“But you know how much I like kids, Dumbledore.” 

“Am I to take it that you are attacking even without 
the full moon now? This is most unusual. ... You have 
developed a taste for human flesh that cannot be 
satisfied once a month?” 

“That’s right,” said Fenrir Greyback. “Shocks you 
that, does it, Dumbledore? Frightens you?” 

“Well, I cannot pretend it does not disgust me a little,” 
said Dumbledore. “And, yes, I am a little shocked that 
Draco here invited you, of all people, into the school 
where his friends live. ...” 

“I didn’t,” breathed Malfoy. He was not looking at 
Fenrir; he did not seem to want to even glance at him. 
“I didn’t know he was going to come — ” 

“I wouldn’t want to miss a trip to Hogwarts, 
Dumbledore,” rasped Greyback. “Not when there are 
throats to be ripped out... Delicious, delicious ...” 



Page | 667 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




And he raised a yellow fingernail and picked at his 
front teeth, leering at Dumbledore. “I could do you for 
afters, Dumbledore.” 

“No,” said the fourth Death Eater sharply. He had a 
heavy, brutal-looking face. “We’ve got orders. Draco’s 
got to do it. Now, Draco, and quickly.” 

Malfoy was showing less resolution than ever. He 
looked terrified as he stared into Dumbledore ’s face, 
which was even paler, and rather lower than usual, 
as he had slid so far down the rampart wall. 

“He’s not long for this world anyway, if you ask me!” 
said the lopsided man, to the accompaniment of his 
sister’s wheezing giggles. “Look at him — what’s 
happened to you, then, Dumby?” 

“Oh, weaker resistance, slower reflexes, Amycus,” 
said Dumbledore. “Old age, in short ... One day, 
perhaps, it will happen to you ... if you are lucky. ...” 

“What’s that mean, then, what’s that mean?” yelled 
the Death Eater, suddenly violent. “Always the same, 
weren’t yeh, Dumby, talking and doing nothing, 
nothing. I don’t even know why the Dark Lord’s 
bothering to kill yer! Come on, Draco, do it!” 

But at that moment there were renewed sounds of 
scuffling from below and a voice shouted, “ They’ve 
blocked the stairs — Reductol REDUCTOl” 

Harry’s heart leapt: So these four had not eliminated 
all opposition, but merely broken through the fight to 
the top of the tower, and, by the sound of it, created a 
barrier behind them — 

“Now, Draco, quickly!” said the brutal-faced man 
angrily. 

Page | 668 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




But Malfoy’s hand was shaking so badly that he could 
barely aim. 

“I’ll do it,” snarled Fenrir, moving toward Dumbledore 
with his hands outstretched, his teeth bared. 

“I said no!” shouted the brutal-faced man; there was a 
flash of light and the werewolf was blasted out of the 
way; he hit the ramparts and staggered, looking 
furious. Harry’s heart was hammering so hard it 
seemed impossible that nobody could hear him 
standing there, imprisoned by Dumbledore ’s spell — 
if he could only move, he could aim a curse from 
under the cloak — 

“Draco, do it or stand aside so one of us — ” screeched 
the woman, but at that precise moment, the door to 
the ramparts burst open once more and there stood 
Snape, his wand clutched in his hand as his black 
eyes swept the scene, from Dumbledore slumped 
against the wall, to the four Death Eaters, including 
the enraged werewolf, and Malfoy. 

“We’ve got a problem, Snape,” said the lumpy 
Amycus, whose eyes and wand were fixed alike upon 
Dumbledore, “the boy doesn’t seem able — ” 

But somebody else had spoken Snape’s name, quite 
softly. 

“Severus ...” 

The sound frightened Harry beyond anything he had 
experienced all evening. For the first time, 

Dumbledore was pleading. 

Snape said nothing, but walked forward and pushed 
Malfoy roughly out of the way. The three Death Eaters 



Page | 669 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




fell back without a word. Even the werewolf seemed 
cowed. 

Snape gazed for a moment at Dumbledore, and there 
was revulsion and hatred etched in the harsh lines of 
his face. 

“Severus ... please ...” 

Snape raised his wand and pointed it directly at 
Dumbledore. 

“Avada KedavraV’ 

A jet of green light shot from the end of Snape’s wand 
and hit Dumbledore squarely in the chest. Harry’s 
scream of horror never left him; silent and unmoving, 
he was forced to watch as Dumbledore was blasted 
into the air. For a split second, he seemed to hang 
suspended beneath the shining skull, and then he fell 
slowly backward, like a great rag doll, over the 
battlements and out of sight. 



Page | 670 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






FLIGHT OF THE PRINCE 

Harry felt as though he too were hurtling through 
space; it had not happened. ...It could not have 
happened. ... 

“Out of here, quickly,” said Snape. 

He seized Malfoy by the scruff of the neck and forced 
him through the door ahead of the rest; Greyback and 
the squat brother and sister followed, the latter both 
panting excitedly. As they vanished through the door, 
Harry realized he could move again. What was now 
holding him paralyzed against the wall was not magic, 
but horror and shock. He threw the Invisibility Cloak 
aside as the brutal-faced Death Eater, last to leave 
the tower top, was disappearing through the door. 

“Petrificus Totalusl” 

The Death Eater buckled as though hit in the back 
with something solid and fell to the ground, rigid as a 
waxwork, but he had barely hit the floor when Harry 



Page | 671 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



was clambering over him and running down the 
darkened staircase. 

Terror tore at Harry’s heart. ... He had to get to 
Dumbledore and he had to catch Snape. ... Somehow 
the two things were linked. ... He could reverse what 
had happened if he had them both together. . . . 
Dumbledore could not have died. ... 

He leapt the last ten steps of the spiral staircase and 
stopped where he landed, his wand raised: The dimly 
lit corridor was full of dust; half the ceiling seemed to 
have fallen in; and a battle was raging before him, but 
even as he attempted to make out who was fighting 
whom, he heard the hated voice shout, “It’s over, time 
to go\” and saw Snape disappearing around the corner 
at the far end of the corridor; he and Malfoy seemed 
to have forced their way through the fight unscathed. 
As Harry plunged after them, one of the fighters 
detached themselves from the fray and flew at him: It 
was the werewolf, Fenrir. He was on top of Harry 
before Harry could raise his wand: Harry fell 
backward, with filthy matted hair in his face, the 
stench of sweat and blood filling his nose and mouth, 
hot greedy breath at his throat — 

“Petrificus Totalusl” 

Harry felt Fenrir collapse against him; with a 
stupendous effort he pushed the werewolf off and 
onto the floor as a jet of green light came flying 
toward him; he ducked and ran, headfirst, into the 
fight. His feet met something squashy and slippery on 
the floor and he stumbled: There were two bodies 
lying there, lying facedown in a pool of blood, but 
there was no time to investigate. Harry now saw red 
hair flying like flames in front of him: Ginny was 
locked in combat with the lumpy Death Eater, 
Amycus, who was throwing hex after hex at her while 
Page | 672 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




she dodged them: Amycus was giggling, enjoying the 
sport: “Crucio — Crucio — you can’t dance forever, 
pretty — ” 

“Impedimenta).” yelled Harry. 

His jinx hit Amycus in the chest: He gave a piglike 
squeal of pain, was lifted off his feet and slammed 
into the opposite wall, slid down it, and fell out of 
sight behind Ron, Professor McGonagall, and Lupin, 
each of whom was battling a separate Death Eater. 
Beyond them, Harry saw Tonks fighting an enormous 
blond wizard who was sending curses flying in all 
directions, so that they ricocheted off the walls 
around them, cracking stone, shattering the nearest 
window — 

“Harry, where did you come from?” Ginny cried, but 
there was no time to answer her. He put his head 
down and sprinted forward, narrowly avoiding a blast 
that erupted over his head, showering them all in bits 
of wall. Snape must not escape, he must catch up 
with Snape — 

“Take that\” shouted Professor McGonagall, and Harry 
glimpsed the female Death Eater, Alecto, sprinting 
away down the corridor with her arms over her head, 
her brother right behind her. He launched himself 
after them but his foot caught on something, and next 
moment he was lying across someone’s legs. Looking 
around, he saw Neville’s pale, round face flat against 
the floor. 

“Neville, are you — ?” 

“M’all right,” muttered Neville, who was clutching his 
stomach, “Harry ... Snape ’n’ Malfoy ... ran past ...” 



Page | 673 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I know, I’m on it!” said Harry, aiming a hex from the 
floor at the enormous blond Death Eater who was 
causing most of the chaos. The man gave a howl of 
pain as the spell hit him in the face: He wheeled 
around, staggered, and then pounded away after the 
brother and sister. Harry scrambled up from the floor 
and began to sprint along the corridor, ignoring the 
bangs issuing from behind him, the yells of the others 
to come back, and the mute call of the figures on the 
ground whose fate he did not yet know. ... 

He skidded around the corner, his trainers slippery 
with blood; Snape had an immense head start. Was it 
possible that he had already entered the cabinet in 
the Room of Requirement, or had the Order made 
steps to secure it, to prevent the Death Eaters 
retreating that way? He could hear nothing but his 
own pounding feet, his own hammering heart as he 
sprinted along the next empty corridor, but then 
spotted a bloody footprint that showed at least one of 
the fleeing Death Eaters was heading toward the front 
doors — perhaps the Room of Requirement was 
indeed blocked — 

He skidded around another corner and a curse flew 
past him; he dived behind a suit of armor that 
exploded. He saw the brother and sister running 
down the marble staircase ahead and aimed jinxes at 
them, but merely hit several bewigged witches in a 
portrait on the landing, who ran screeching into 
neighboring paintings. As he leapt the wreckage of 
armor, Harry heard more shouts and screams; other 
people within the castle seemed to have awoken. ... 

He pelted toward a shortcut, hoping to overtake the 
brother and sister and close in on Snape and Malfoy, 
who must surely have reached the grounds by now. 
Remembering to leap the vanishing step halfway 
down the concealed staircase, he burst through a 
Page | 674 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




tapestry at the bottom and out into a corridor where a 
number of bewildered and pajama-clad Hufflepuffs 
stood. 

“Harry! We heard a noise, and someone said 
something about the Dark Mark — ” began Ernie 
Macmillan. 

“Out of the way!” yelled Harry, knocking two boys 
aside as he sprinted toward the landing and down the 
remainder of the marble staircase. The oak front 
doors had been blasted open, there were smears of 
blood on the flagstones, and several terrified students 
stood huddled against the walls, one or two still 
cowering with their arms over their faces. The giant 
Gryffindor hourglass had been hit by a curse, and the 
rubies within were still falling, with a loud rattle, onto 
the flagstones below. 

Harry flew across the entrance hall and out into the 
dark grounds: He could just make out three figures 
racing across the lawn, heading for the gates beyond 
which they could Disapparate — by the looks of them, 
the huge blond Death Eater and, some way ahead of 
him, Snape and Malfoy ... 

The cold night air ripped at Harry’s lungs as he tore 
after them; he saw a flash of light in the distance that 
momentarily silhouetted his quarry. He did not know 
what it was but continued to run, not yet near 
enough to get a good aim with a curse — 

Another flash, shouts, retaliatory jets of light, and 
Harry understood: Hagrid had emerged from his 
cabin and was trying to stop the Death Eaters 
escaping, and though every breath seemed to shred 
his lungs and the stitch in his chest was like fire, 
Harry sped up as an unbidden voice in his head said: 
not Hagrid . . . not Hagrid too . . . 

Page | 675 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Something caught Harry hard in the small of the back 
and he fell forward, his face smacking the ground, 
blood pouring out of both nostrils: He knew, even as 
he rolled over, his wand ready, that the brother and 
sister he had overtaken using his shortcut were 
closing in behind him. ... 

“Impedimenta).” he yelled as he rolled over again, 
crouching close to the dark ground, and miraculously 
his jinx hit one of them, who stumbled and fell, 
tripping up the other; Harry leapt to his feet and 
sprinted on after Snape. 

And now he saw the vast outline of Hagrid, 
illuminated by the light of the crescent moon revealed 
suddenly behind clouds; the blond Death Eater was 
aiming curse after curse at the gamekeeper; but 
Hagrid’s immense strength and the toughened skin 
he had inherited from his giantess mother seemed to 
be protecting him. Snape and Malfoy, however, were 
still running; they would soon be beyond the gates, 
able to Disapparate — 

Harry tore past Hagrid and his opponent, took aim at 
Snape’s back, and yelled, “Stupefy\” 

He missed; the jet of red light soared past Snape’s 
head; Snape shouted, “Run, Draco\” and turned. 
Twenty yards apart, he and Harry looked at each 
other before raising their wands simultaneously. 

“Cruc — ” 

But Snape parried the curse, knocking Harry 
backward off his feet before he could complete it; 
Harry rolled over and scrambled back up again as the 
huge Death Eater behind him yelled, “Incendiol” Harry 
heard an explosive bang and a dancing orange light 
spilled over all of them: Hagrid’s house was on fire. 
Page | 676 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



