MOCKINGJAY
SUZANNE COLLINS

PART I
"THE ASHES"
1
I stare down at my shoes, watching as a fine layer of
ash settles on the worn leather. This is where the bed I
shared with my sister, Prim, stood. Over there was the
kitchen table. The bricks of the chimney, which collapsed in
a charred heap, provide a point of reference for the rest of
the house. How else could I orient myself in this sea of
gray?
Almost nothing remains of District 12. A month ago,
the Capitol's firebombs obliterated the poor coal miners'
houses in the Seam, the shops in the town, even the Justice
Building. The only area that escaped incineration was the
Victor's Village. I don't know why exactly. Perhaps so
anyone forced to come here on Capitol business would
have somewhere decent to stay. The odd reporter. A
committee assessing the condition of the coal mines. A
squad of Peacekeepers checking for returning refugees.
But no one is returning except me. And that's only for a
brief visit. The authorities in District 13 were against my
coming back. They viewed it as a costly and pointless
venture, given that at least a dozen invisible hovercraft are
circling overhead for my protection and there's no
intelligence to be gained. I had to see it, though. So much
so that I made it a condition of my cooperating with any of
their plans.
Finally, Plutarch Heavensbee, the Head Gamemaker
who had organized the rebels in the Capitol, threw up his
hands. "Let her go. Better to waste a day than another
month. Maybe a little tour of Twelve is just what she needs
to convince her we're on the same side."
The same side. A pain stabs my left temple and I
press my hand against it. Right on the spot where Johanna
Mason hit me with the coil of wire. The memories swirl as I
try to sort out what is true and what is false. What series of
events led me to be standing in the ruins of my city? This is
hard because the effects of the concussion she gave me
haven't completely subsided and my thoughts still have a
tendency to jumble together. Also, the drugs they use to
control my pain and mood sometimes make me see things.
I guess. I'm still not entirely convinced that I was
hallucinating the night the floor of my hospital room
transformed into a carpet of writhing snakes.
I use a technique one of the doctors suggested. I start
with the simplest things I know to be true and work toward
the more complicated. The list begins to roll in my head....
My name is Katniss Everdeen. I am seventeen years
old. My home is District 12. I was in the Hunger Games. I
escaped. The Capitol hates me. Peeta was taken
prisoner. He is thought to be dead. Most likely he is dead.
It is probably best if he is dead....
"Katniss. Should I come down?" My best friend Gale's
voice reaches me through the headset the rebels insisted I
wear. He's up in a hovercraft, watching me carefully, ready
to swoop in if anything goes amiss. I realize I'm crouched
down now, elbows on my thighs, my head braced between
my hands. I must look on the verge of some kind of
breakdown. This won't do. Not when they're finally weaning
me off the medication.
I straighten up and wave his offer away. "No. I'm fine."
To reinforce this, I begin to move away from my old house
and in toward the town. Gale asked to be dropped off in 12
with me, but he didn't force the issue when I refused his
company. He understands I don't want anyone with me
today. Not even him. Some walks you have to take alone.
The summer's been scorching hot and dry as a bone.
There's been next to no rain to disturb the piles of ash left
by the attack. They shift here and there, in reaction to my
footsteps. No breeze to scatter them. I keep my eyes on
what I remember as the road, because when I first landed in
the Meadow, I wasn't careful and I walked right into a rock.
Only it wasn't a rock--it was someone's skull. It rolled over
and over and landed faceup, and for a long time I couldn't
stop looking at the teeth, wondering whose they were,
thinking of how mine would probably look the same way
under similar circumstances.
I stick to the road out of habit, but it's a bad choice,
because it's full of the remains of those who tried to flee.
Some were incinerated entirely. But others, probably
overcome with smoke, escaped the worst of the flames and
now lie reeking in various states of decomposition, carrion
for scavengers, blanketed by flies. I killed you, I think as I
pass a pile. And you. And you.
Because I did. It was my arrow, aimed at the chink in
the force field surrounding the arena, that brought on this
firestorm of retribution. That sent the whole country of
Panem into chaos.
In my head I hear President Snow's words, spoken the
morning I was to begin the Victory Tour. "Katniss
Everdeen, the girl who was on fire, you have provided a
spark that, left unattended, may grow to an inferno that
destroys Panem." It turns out he wasn't exaggerating or
simply trying to scare me. He was, perhaps, genuinely
attempting to enlist my help. But I had already set
something in motion that I had no ability to control.
Burning. Still burning, I think numbly. The fires at the
coal mines belch black smoke in the distance. There's no
one left to care, though. More than ninety percent of the
district's population is dead. The remaining eight hundred
or so are refugees in District 13--which, as far as I'm
concerned, is the same thing as being homeless forever.
I know I shouldn't think that; I know I should be grateful
for the way we have been welcomed. Sick, wounded,
starving, and empty-handed. Still, I can never get around
the fact that District 13 was instrumental in 12's destruction.
This doesn't absolve me of blame--there's plenty of blame
to go around. But without them, I would not have been part
of a larger plot to overthrow the Capitol or had the
wherewithal to do it.
The citizens of District 12 had no organized resistance
movement of their own. No say in any of this. They only had
the misfortune to have me. Some survivors think it's good
luck, though, to be free of District 12 at last. To have
escaped the endless hunger and oppression, the perilous
mines, the lash of our final Head Peacekeeper, Romulus
Thread. To have a new home at all is seen as a wonder
since, up until a short time ago, we hadn't even known that
District 13 still existed.
The credit for the survivors' escape has landed
squarely on Gale's shoulders, although he's loath to accept
it. As soon as the Quarter Quell was over--as soon as I had
been lifted from the arena--the electricity in District 12 was
cut, the televisions went black, and the Seam became so
silent, people could hear one another's heartbeats. No one
did anything to protest or celebrate what had happened in
the arena. Yet within fifteen minutes, the sky was filled with
hoverplanes and the bombs were raining down.
It was Gale who thought of the Meadow, one of the few
places not filled with old wooden homes embedded with
coal dust. He herded those he could in its direction,
including my mother and Prim. He formed the team that
pulled down the fence--now just a harmless chain-link
barrier, with the electricity off--and led the people into the
woods. He took them to the only place he could think of, the
lake my father had shown me as a child. And it was from
there they watched the distant flames eat up everything they
knew in the world.
By dawn the bombers were long gone, the fires dying,
the final stragglers rounded up. My mother and Prim had
set up a medical area for the injured and were attempting
to treat them with whatever they could glean from the
woods. Gale had two sets of bows and arrows, one hunting
knife, one fishing net, and over eight hundred terrified
people to feed. With the help of those who were ablebodied,
they managed for three days. And that's when the
hovercraft unexpectedly arrived to evacuate them to District
13, where there were more than enough clean, white living
compartments, plenty of clothing, and three meals a day.
The compartments had the disadvantage of being
underground, the clothing was identical, and the food was
relatively tasteless, but for the refugees of 12, these were
minor considerations. They were safe. They were being
cared for. They were alive and eagerly welcomed.
This enthusiasm was interpreted as kindness. But a
man named Dalton, a District 10 refugee who'd made it to
13 on foot a few years ago, leaked the real motive to me.
"They need you. Me. They need us all. Awhile back, there
was some sort of pox epidemic that killed a bunch of them
and left a lot more infertile. New breeding stock. That's how
they see us." Back in 10, he'd worked on one of the beef
ranches, maintaining the genetic diversity of the herd with
the implantation of long-frozen cow embryos. He's very
likely right about 13, because there don't seem to be nearly
enough kids around. But so what? We're not being kept in
pens, we're being trained for work, the children are being
educated. Those over fourteen have been given entry-level
ranks in the military and are addressed respectfully as
"Soldier." Every single refugee was granted automatic
citizenship by the authorities of 13.
Still, I hate them. But, of course, I hate almost
everybody now. Myself more than anyone.
The surface beneath my feet hardens, and under the
carpet of ash, I feel the paving stones of the square. Around
the perimeter is a shallow border of refuse where the shops
stood. A heap of blackened rubble has replaced the
Justice Building. I walk to the approximate site of the
bakery Peeta's family owned. Nothing much left but the
melted lump of the oven. Peeta's parents, his two older
brothers--none of them made it to 13. Fewer than a dozen
of what passed for District 12's well-to-do escaped the fire.
Peeta would have nothing to come home to, anyway.
Except me...
I back away from the bakery and bump into something,
lose my balance, and find myself sitting on a hunk of sunheated
metal. I puzzle over what it might have been, then
remember Thread's recent renovations of the square.
Stocks, whipping posts, and this, the remains of the
gallows. Bad. This is bad. It brings on the flood of images
that torments me, awake or asleep. Peeta being tortured--
drowned, burned, lacerated, shocked, maimed, beaten--as
the Capitol tries to get information about the rebellion that
he doesn't know. I squeeze my eyes shut and try to reach
for him across the hundreds and hundreds of miles, to send
my thoughts into his mind, to let him know he is not alone.
But he is. And I can't help him.
Running. Away from the square and to the one place
the fire did not destroy. I pass the wreckage of the mayor's
house, where my friend Madge lived. No word of her or her
family. Were they evacuated to the Capitol because of her
father's position, or left to the flames? Ashes billow up
around me, and I pull the hem of my shirt up over my mouth.
It's not wondering what I breathe in, but who, that threatens
to choke me.
The grass has been scorched and the gray snow fell
here as well, but the twelve fine houses of the Victor's
Village are unscathed. I bolt into the house I lived in for the
past year, slam the door closed, and lean back against it.
The place seems untouched. Clean. Eerily quiet. Why did I
come back to 12? How can this visit help me answer the
question I can't escape?
"What am I going to do?" I whisper to the walls.
Because I really don't know.
People keep talking at me, talking, talking, talking.
Plutarch Heavensbee. His calculating assistant, Fulvia
Cardew. A mishmash of district leaders. Military officials.
But not Alma Coin, the president of 13, who just watches.
She's fifty or so, with gray hair that falls in an unbroken
sheet to her shoulders. I'm somewhat fascinated by her
hair, since it's so uniform, so without a flaw, a wisp, even a
split end. Her eyes are gray, but not like those of people
from the Seam. They're very pale, as if almost all the color
has been sucked out of them. The color of slush that you
wish would melt away.
What they want is for me to truly take on the role they
designed for me. The symbol of the revolution. The
Mockingjay. It isn't enough, what I've done in the past,
defying the Capitol in the Games, providing a rallying point.
I must now become the actual leader, the face, the voice,
the embodiment of the revolution. The person who the
districts--most of which are now openly at war with the
Capitol--can count on to blaze the path to victory. I won't
have to do it alone. They have a whole team of people to
make me over, dress me, write my speeches, orchestrate
my appearances--as if that doesn't sound horribly familiar--
and all I have to do is play my part. Sometimes I listen to
them and sometimes I just watch the perfect line of Coin's
hair and try to decide if it's a wig. Eventually, I leave the
room because my head starts to ache or it's time to eat or if
I don't get aboveground I might start screaming. I don't
bother to say anything. I simply get up and walk out.
Yesterday afternoon, as the door was closing behind
me, I heard Coin say, "I told you we should have rescued
the boy first." Meaning Peeta. I couldn't agree more. He
would've been an excellent mouthpiece.
And who did they fish out of the arena instead? Me,
who won't cooperate. Beetee, an older inventor from 3, who
I rarely see because he was pulled into weapons
development the minute he could sit upright. Literally, they
wheeled his hospital bed into some top secret area and
now he only occasionally shows up for meals. He's very
smart and very willing to help the cause, but not really
firebrand material. Then there's Finnick Odair, the sex
symbol from the fishing district, who kept Peeta alive in the
arena when I couldn't. They want to transform Finnick into a
rebel leader as well, but first they'll have to get him to stay
awake for more than five minutes. Even when he is
conscious, you have to say everything to him three times to
get through to his brain. The doctors say it's from the
electrical shock he received in the arena, but I know it's a
lot more complicated than that. I know that Finnick can't
focus on anything in 13 because he's trying so hard to see
what's happening in the Capitol to Annie, the mad girl from
his district who's the only person on earth he loves.
Despite serious reservations, I had to forgive Finnick
for his role in the conspiracy that landed me here. He, at
least, has some idea of what I'm going through. And it takes
too much energy to stay angry with someone who cries so
much.
I move through the downstairs on hunter's feet,
reluctant to make any sound. I pick up a few
remembrances: a photo of my parents on their wedding
day, a blue hair ribbon for Prim, the family book of
medicinal and edible plants. The book falls open to a page
with yellow flowers and I shut it quickly because it was
Peeta's brush that painted them.
What am I going to do?
Is there any point in doing anything at all? My mother,
my sister, and Gale's family are finally safe. As for the rest
of 12, people are either dead, which is irreversible, or
protected in 13. That leaves the rebels in the districts. Of
course, I hate the Capitol, but I have no confidence that my
being the Mockingjay will benefit those who are trying to
bring it down. How can I help the districts when every time I
make a move, it results in suffering and loss of life? The old
man shot in District 11 for whistling. The crackdown in 12
after I intervened in Gale's whipping. My stylist, Cinna,
being dragged, bloody and unconscious, from the Launch
Room before the Games. Plutarch's sources believe he
was killed during interrogation. Brilliant, enigmatic, lovely
Cinna is dead because of me. I push the thought away
because it's too impossibly painful to dwell on without
losing my fragile hold on the situation entirely.
What am I going to do?
To become the Mockingjay...could any good I do
possibly outweigh the damage? Who can I trust to answer
that question? Certainly not that crew in 13. I swear, now
that my family and Gale's are out of harm's way, I could run
away. Except for one unfinished piece of business. Peeta.
If I knew for sure that he was dead, I could just disappear
into the woods and never look back. But until I do, I'm stuck.
I spin on my heel at the sound of a hiss. In the kitchen
doorway, back arched, ears flattened, stands the ugliest
tomcat in the world. "Buttercup," I say. Thousands of people
are dead, but he has survived and even looks well fed. On
what? He can get in and out of the house through a window
we always left ajar in the pantry. He must have been eating
field mice. I refuse to consider the alternative.
I squat down and extend a hand. "Come here, boy."
Not likely. He's angry at his abandonment. Besides, I'm not
offering food, and my ability to provide scraps has always
been my main redeeming quality to him. For a while, when
we used to meet up at the old house because we both
disliked this new one, we seemed to be bonding a little.
That's clearly over. He blinks those unpleasant yellow eyes.
"Want to see Prim?" I ask. Her name catches his
attention. Besides his own, it's the only word that means
anything to him. He gives a rusty meow and approaches
me. I pick him up, stroking his fur, then go to the closet and
dig out my game bag and unceremoniously stuff him in.
There's no other way I'll be able to carry him on the
hovercraft, and he means the world to my sister. Her goat,
Lady, an animal of actual value, has unfortunately not made
an appearance.
In my headset, I hear Gale's voice telling me we must
go back. But the game bag has reminded me of one more
thing that I want. I sling the strap of the bag over the back of
a chair and dash up the steps to my bedroom. Inside the
closet hangs my father's hunting jacket. Before the Quell, I
brought it here from the old house, thinking its presence
might be of comfort to my mother and sister when I was
dead. Thank goodness, or it'd be ash now.
The soft leather feels soothing and for a moment I'm
calmed by the memories of the hours spent wrapped in it.
Then, inexplicably, my palms begin to sweat. A strange
sensation creeps up the back of my neck. I whip around to
face the room and find it empty. Tidy. Everything in its
place. There was no sound to alarm me. What, then?
My nose twitches. It's the smell. Cloying and artificial. A
dab of white peeks out of a vase of dried flowers on my
dresser. I approach it with cautious steps. There, all but
obscured by its preserved cousins, is a fresh white rose.
Perfect. Down to the last thorn and silken petal.
And I know immediately who's sent it to me.
President Snow.
When I begin to gag at the stench, I back away and
clear out. How long has it been here? A day? An hour? The
rebels did a security sweep of the Victor's Village before I
was cleared to come here, checking for explosives, bugs,
anything unusual. But perhaps the rose didn't seem
noteworthy to them. Only to me.
Downstairs, I snag the game bag off the chair,
bouncing it along the floor until I remember it's occupied.
On the lawn, I frantically signal to the hovercraft while
Buttercup thrashes. I jab him with my elbow, but this only
infuriates him. A hovercraft materializes and a ladder drops
down. I step on and the current freezes me until I'm lifted on
board.
Gale helps me from the ladder. "You all right?"
"Yeah," I say, wiping the sweat off my face with my
sleeve.
He left me a rose! I want to scream, but it's not
information I'm sure I should share with someone like
Plutarch looking on. First of all, because it will make me
sound crazy. Like I either imagined it, which is quite
possible, or I'm overreacting, which will buy me a trip back
to the drug-induced dreamland I'm trying so hard to escape.
No one will fully understand--how it's not just a flower, not
even just President Snow's flower, but a promise of
revenge--because no one else sat in the study with him
when he threatened me before the Victory Tour.
Positioned on my dresser, that white-as-snow rose is
a personal message to me. It speaks of unfinished
business. It whispers, I can find you. I can reach you.
Perhaps I am watching you now.
2
Are there Capitol hoverplanes speeding in to blow us
out of the sky? As we travel over District 12, I watch
anxiously for signs of an attack, but nothing pursues us.
After several minutes, when I hear an exchange between
Plutarch and the pilot confirming that the airspace is clear, I
begin to relax a little.
Gale nods at the howls coming from my game bag.
"Now I know why you had to go back."
"If there was even a chance of his recovery." I dump
the bag onto a seat, where the loathsome creature begins
a low, deep-throated growl. "Oh, shut up," I tell the bag as I
sink into the cushioned window seat across from it.
Gale sits next to me. "Pretty bad down there?"
"Couldn't be much worse," I answer. I look in his eyes
and see my own grief reflected there. Our hands find each
other, holding fast to a part of 12 that Snow has somehow
failed to destroy. We sit in silence for the rest of the trip to
13, which only takes about forty-five minutes. A mere
week's journey on foot. Bonnie and Twill, the District 8
refugees who I encountered in the woods last winter,
weren't so far from their destination after all. They
apparently didn't make it, though. When I asked about them
in 13, no one seemed to know who I was talking about.
Died in the woods, I guess.
From the air, 13 looks about as cheerful as 12. The
rubble isn't smoking, the way the Capitol shows it on
television, but there's next to no life aboveground. In the
seventy-five years since the Dark Days--when 13 was said
to have been obliterated in the war between the Capitol
and the districts--almost all new construction has been
beneath the earth's surface. There was already a
substantial underground facility here, developed over
centuries to be either a clandestine refuge for government
leaders in time of war or a last resort for humanity if life
above became unlivable. Most important for the people of
13, it was the center of the Capitol's nuclear weapons
development program. During the Dark Days, the rebels in
13 wrested control from the government forces, trained
their nuclear missiles on the Capitol, and then struck a
bargain: They would play dead in exchange for being left
alone. The Capitol had another nuclear arsenal out west,
but it couldn't attack 13 without certain retaliation. It was
forced to accept 13's deal. The Capitol demolished the
visible remains of the district and cut off all access from the
outside. Perhaps the Capitol's leaders thought that, without
help, 13 would die off on its own. It almost did a few times,
but it always managed to pull through due to strict sharing
of resources, strenuous discipline, and constant vigilance
against any further attacks from the Capitol.
Now the citizens live almost exclusively underground.
You can go outside for exercise and sunlight but only at very
specific times in your schedule. You can't miss your
schedule. Every morning, you're supposed to stick your
right arm in this contraption in the wall. It tattoos the smooth
inside of your forearm with your schedule for the day in a
sickly purple ink. 7:00--Breakfast. 7:30--Kitchen Duties.
8:30--Education Center, Room 17. And so on. The ink is
indelible until 22:00--Bathing. That's when whatever keeps
it water resistant breaks down and the whole schedule
rinses away. The lights-out at 22:30 signals that everyone
not on the night shift should be in bed.
At first, when I was so ill in the hospital, I could forgo
being imprinted. But once I moved into Compartment 307
with my mother and sister, I was expected to get with the
program. Except for showing up for meals, though, I pretty
much ignore the words on my arm. I just go back to our
compartment or wander around 13 or fall asleep
somewhere hidden. An abandoned air duct. Behind the
water pipes in the laundry. There's a closet in the Education
Center that's great because no one ever seems to need
school supplies. They're so frugal with things here, waste is
practically a criminal activity. Fortunately, the people of 12
have never been wasteful. But once I saw Fulvia Cardew
crumple up a sheet of paper with just a couple of words
written on it and you would've thought she'd murdered
someone from the looks she got. Her face turned tomato
red, making the silver flowers inlaid in her plump cheeks
even more noticeable. The very portrait of excess. One of
my few pleasures in 13 is watching the handful of
pampered Capitol "rebels" squirming as they try to fit in.
I don't know how long I'll be able to get away with my
complete disregard for the clockwork precision of
attendance required by my hosts. Right now, they leave me
alone because I'm classified as mentally disoriented--it
says so right on my plastic medical bracelet--and everyone
has to tolerate my ramblings. But that can't last forever.
Neither can their patience with the Mockingjay issue.
From the landing pad, Gale and I walk down a series
of stairways to Compartment 307. We could take the
elevator, only it reminds me too much of the one that lifted
me into the arena. I'm having a hard time adjusting to being
underground so much. But after the surreal encounter with
the rose, for the first time the descent makes me feel safer.
I hesitate at the door marked 307, anticipating the
questions from my family. "What am I going to tell them
about Twelve?" I ask Gale.
"I doubt they'll ask for details. They saw it burn. They'll
mostly be worried about how you're handling it." Gale
touches my cheek. "Like I am."
I press my face against his hand for a moment. "I'll
survive."
Then I take a deep breath and open the door. My
mother and sister are home for 18:00--Reflection, a half
hour of downtime before dinner. I see the concern on their
faces as they try to gauge my emotional state. Before
anyone can ask anything, I empty my game bag and it
becomes 18:00--Cat Adoration. Prim just sits on the floor
weeping and rocking that awful Buttercup, who interrupts
his purring only for an occasional hiss at me. He gives me a
particularly smug look when she ties the blue ribbon around
his neck.
My mother hugs the wedding photo tightly against her
chest and then places it, along with the book of plants, on
our government-issued chest of drawers. I hang my father's
jacket on the back of a chair. For a moment, the place
almost seems like home. So I guess the trip to 12 wasn't a
complete waste.
We're heading down to the dining hall for 18:30--
Dinner when Gale's communicuff begins to beep. It looks
like an oversized watch, but it receives print messages.
Being granted a communicuff is a special privilege that's
reserved for those important to the cause, a status Gale
achieved by his rescue of the citizens of 12. "They need the
two of us in Command," he says.
Trailing a few steps behind Gale, I try to collect myself
before I'm thrown into what's sure to be another relentless
Mockingjay session. I linger in the doorway of Command,
the high-tech meeting/war council room complete with
computerized talking walls, electronic maps showing the
troop movements in various districts, and a giant
rectangular table with control panels I'm not supposed to
touch. No one notices me, though, because they're all
gathered at a television screen at the far end of the room
that airs the Capitol broadcast around the clock. I'm
thinking I might be able to slip away when Plutarch, whose
ample frame has been blocking the television, catches
sight of me and waves urgently for me to join them. I
reluctantly move forward, trying to imagine how it could be
of interest to me. It's always the same. War footage.
Propaganda. Replaying the bombings of District 12. An
ominous message from President Snow. So it's almost
entertaining to see Caesar Flickerman, the eternal host of
the Hunger Games, with his painted face and sparkly suit,
preparing to give an interview. Until the camera pulls back
and I see that his guest is Peeta.
A sound escapes me. The same combination of gasp
and groan that comes from being submerged in water,
deprived of oxygen to the point of pain. I push people aside
until I am right in front of him, my hand resting on the screen.
I search his eyes for any sign of hurt, any reflection of the
agony of torture. There is nothing. Peeta looks healthy to
the point of robustness. His skin is glowing, flawless, in that
full-body-polish way. His manner's composed, serious. I
can't reconcile this image with the battered, bleeding boy
who haunts my dreams.
Caesar settles himself more comfortably in the chair
across from Peeta and gives him a long look.
"So...Peeta...welcome back."
Peeta smiles slightly. "I bet you thought you'd done
your last interview with me, Caesar."
"I confess, I did," says Caesar. "The night before the
Quarter Quell...well, who ever thought we'd see you again?"
"It wasn't part of my plan, that's for sure," says Peeta
with a frown.
Caesar leans in to him a little. "I think it was clear to all
of us what your plan was. To sacrifice yourself in the arena
so that Katniss Everdeen and your child could survive."
"That was it. Clear and simple." Peeta's fingers trace
the upholstered pattern on the arm of the chair. "But other
people had plans as well."
Yes, other people had plans, I think. Has Peeta
guessed, then, how the rebels used us as pawns? How my
rescue was arranged from the beginning? And finally, how
our mentor, Haymitch Abernathy, betrayed us both for a
cause he pretended to have no interest in?
In the silence that follows, I notice the lines that have
formed between Peeta's eyebrows. He has guessed or he
has been told. But the Capitol has not killed or even
punished him. For right now, that exceeds my wildest
hopes. I drink in his wholeness, the soundness of his body
and mind. It runs through me like the morphling they give
me in the hospital, dulling the pain of the last weeks.
"Why don't you tell us about that last night in the
arena?" suggests Caesar. "Help us sort a few things out."
Peeta nods but takes his time speaking. "That last
night...to tell you about that last night...well, first of all, you
have to imagine how it felt in the arena. It was like being an
insect trapped under a bowl filled with steaming air. And all
around you, jungle...green and alive and ticking. That giant
clock ticking away your life. Every hour promising some
new horror. You have to imagine that in the past two days,
sixteen people have died--some of them defending you. At
the rate things are going, the last eight will be dead by
morning. Save one. The victor. And your plan is that it won't
be you."
My body breaks out in a sweat at the memory. My
hand slides down the screen and hangs limply at my side.
Peeta doesn't need a brush to paint images from the
Games. He works just as well in words.
"Once you're in the arena, the rest of the world
becomes very distant," he continues. "All the people and
things you loved or cared about almost cease to exist. The
pink sky and the monsters in the jungle and the tributes who
want your blood become your final reality, the only one that
ever mattered. As bad as it makes you feel, you're going to
have to do some killing, because in the arena, you only get
one wish. And it's very costly."
"It costs your life," says Caesar.
"Oh, no. It costs a lot more than your life. To murder
innocent people?" says Peeta. "It costs everything you are."
"Everything you are," repeats Caesar quietly.
A hush has fallen over the room, and I can feel it
spreading across Panem. A nation leaning in toward its
screens. Because no one has ever talked about what it's
really like in the arena before.
Peeta goes on. "So you hold on to your wish. And that
last night, yes, my wish was to save Katniss. But even
without knowing about the rebels, it didn't feel right.
Everything was too complicated. I found myself regretting I
hadn't run off with her earlier in the day, as she had
suggested. But there was no getting out of it at that point."
"You were too caught up in Beetee's plan to electrify
the salt lake," says Caesar.
"Too busy playing allies with the others. I should have
never let them separate us!" Peeta bursts out. "That's when
I lost her."
"When you stayed at the lightning tree, and she and
Johanna Mason took the coil of wire down to the water,"
Caesar clarifies.
"I didn't want to!" Peeta flushes in agitation. "But I
couldn't argue with Beetee without indicating we were
about to break away from the alliance. When that wire was
cut, everything just went insane. I can only remember bits
and pieces. Trying to find her. Watching Brutus kill Chaff.
Killing Brutus myself. I know she was calling my name. Then
the lightning bolt hit the tree, and the force field around the
arena...blew out."
"Katniss blew it out, Peeta," says Caesar. "You've
seen the footage."
"She didn't know what she was doing. None of us
could follow Beetee's plan. You can see her trying to figure
out what to do with that wire," Peeta snaps back.
"All right. It just looks suspicious," says Caesar. "As if
she was part of the rebels' plan all along."
Peeta's on his feet, leaning in to Caesar's face, hands
locked on the arms of his interviewer's chair. "Really? And
was it part of her plan for Johanna to nearly kill her? For that
electric shock to paralyze her? To trigger the bombing?"
He's yelling now. "She didn't know, Caesar! Neither of us
knew anything except that we were trying to keep each
other alive!"
Caesar places his hand on Peeta's chest in a gesture
that's both self-protective and conciliatory. "Okay, Peeta, I
believe you."
"Okay." Peeta withdraws from Caesar, pulling back his
hands, running them through his hair, mussing his carefully
styled blond curls. He slumps back in his chair, distraught.
Caesar waits a moment, studying Peeta. "What about
your mentor, Haymitch Abernathy?"
Peeta's face hardens. "I don't know what Haymitch
knew."
"Could he have been part of the conspiracy?" asks
Caesar.
"He never mentioned it," says Peeta.
Caesar presses on. "What does your heart tell you?"
"That I shouldn't have trusted him," says Peeta. "That's
all."
I haven't seen Haymitch since I attacked him on the
hovercraft, leaving long claw marks down his face. I know
it's been bad for him here. District 13 strictly forbids any
production or consumption of intoxicating beverages, and
even the rubbing alcohol in the hospital is kept under lock
and key. Finally, Haymitch is being forced into sobriety, with
no secret stashes or home-brewed concoctions to ease his
transition. They've got him in seclusion until he's dried out,
as he's not deemed fit for public display. It must be
excruciating, but I lost all my sympathy for Haymitch when I
realized how he had deceived us. I hope he's watching the
Capitol broadcast now, so he can see that Peeta has cast
him off as well.
Caesar pats Peeta's shoulder. "We can stop now if
you want."
"Was there more to discuss?" says Peeta wryly.
"I was going to ask your thoughts on the war, but if
you're too upset..." begins Caesar.
"Oh, I'm not too upset to answer that." Peeta takes a
deep breath and then looks straight into the camera. "I want
everyone watching--whether you're on the Capitol or the
rebel side--to stop for just a moment and think about what
this war could mean. For human beings. We almost went
extinct fighting one another before. Now our numbers are
even fewer. Our conditions more tenuous. Is this really what
we want to do? Kill ourselves off completely? In the hopes
that--what? Some decent species will inherit the smoking
remains of the earth?"
"I don't really...I'm not sure I'm following..." says
Caesar.
"We can't fight one another, Caesar," Peeta explains.
"There won't be enough of us left to keep going. If
everybody doesn't lay down their weapons--and I mean, as
in very soon--it's all over, anyway."
"So...you're calling for a cease-fire?" Caesar asks.
"Yes. I'm calling for a cease-fire," says Peeta tiredly.
"Now why don't we ask the guards to take me back to my
quarters so I can build another hundred card houses?"
Caesar turns to the camera. "All right. I think that wraps
it up. So back to our regularly scheduled programming."
Music plays them out, and then there's a woman
reading a list of expected shortages in the Capitol--fresh
fruit, solar batteries, soap. I watch her with uncharacteristic
absorption, because I know everyone will be waiting for my
reaction to the interview. But there's no way I can process it
all so quickly--the joy of seeing Peeta alive and unharmed,
his defense of my innocence in collaborating with the
rebels, and his undeniable complicity with the Capitol now
that he's called for a cease-fire. Oh, he made it sound as if
he were condemning both sides in the war. But at this point,
with only minor victories for the rebels, a cease-fire could
only result in a return to our previous status. Or worse.
Behind me, I can hear the accusations against Peeta
building. The words traitor, liar, and enemy bounce off the
walls. Since I can neither join in the rebels' outrage nor
counter it, I decide the best thing to do is clear out. As I
reach the door, Coin's voice rises above the others. "You
have not been dismissed, Soldier Everdeen."
One of Coin's men lays a hand on my arm. It's not an
aggressive move, really, but after the arena, I react
defensively to any unfamiliar touch. I jerk my arm free and
take off running down the halls. Behind me, there's the
sound of a scuffle, but I don't stop. My mind does a quick
inventory of my odd little hiding places, and I wind up in the
supply closet, curled up against a crate of chalk.
"You're alive," I whisper, pressing my palms against
my cheeks, feeling the smile that's so wide it must look like
a grimace. Peeta's alive. And a traitor. But at the moment, I
don't care. Not what he says, or who he says it for, only that
he is still capable of speech.
After a while, the door opens and someone slips in.
Gale slides down beside me, his nose trickling blood.
"What happened?" I ask.
"I got in Boggs's way," he answers with a shrug. I use
my sleeve to wipe his nose. "Watch it!"
I try to be gentler. Patting, not wiping. "Which one is
he?"
"Oh, you know. Coin's right-hand lackey. The one who
tried to stop you." He pushes my hand away. "Quit! You'll
bleed me to death."
The trickle has turned to a steady stream. I give up on
the first-aid attempts. "You fought with Boggs?"
"No, just blocked the doorway when he tried to follow
you. His elbow caught me in the nose," says Gale.
"They'll probably punish you," I say.
"Already have." He holds up his wrist. I stare at it
uncomprehendingly. "Coin took back my communicuff."
I bite my lip, trying to remain serious. But it seems so
ridiculous. "I'm sorry, Soldier Gale Hawthorne."
"Don't be, Soldier Katniss Everdeen." He grins. "I felt
like a jerk walking around with it anyway." We both start
laughing. "I think it was quite a demotion."
This is one of the few good things about 13. Getting
Gale back. With the pressure of the Capitol's arranged
marriage between Peeta and me gone, we've managed to
regain our friendship. He doesn't push it any further--try to
kiss me or talk about love. Either I've been too sick, or he's
willing to give me space, or he knows it's just too cruel with
Peeta in the hands of the Capitol. Whatever the case, I've
got someone to tell my secrets to again.
"Who are these people?" I say.
"They're us. If we'd had nukes instead of a few lumps
of coal," he answers.
"I like to think Twelve wouldn't have abandoned the rest
of the rebels back in the Dark Days," I say.
"We might have. If it was that, surrender, or start a
nuclear war," says Gale. "In a way, it's remarkable they
survived at all."
Maybe it's because I still have the ashes of my own
district on my shoes, but for the first time, I give the people
of 13 something I have withheld from them: credit. For
staying alive against all odds. Their early years must have
been terrible, huddled in the chambers beneath the ground
after their city was bombed to dust. Population decimated,
no possible ally to turn to for aid. Over the past seventy-five
years, they've learned to be self-sufficient, turned their
citizens into an army, and built a new society with no help
from anyone. They would be even more powerful if that pox
epidemic hadn't flattened their birthrate and made them so
desperate for a new gene pool and breeders. Maybe they
are militaristic, overly programmed, and somewhat lacking
in a sense of humor. They're here. And willing to take on the
Capitol.
"Still, it took them long enough to show up," I say.
"It wasn't simple. They had to build up a rebel base in
the Capitol, get some sort of underground organized in the
districts," he says. "Then they needed someone to set the
whole thing in motion. They needed you."
"They needed Peeta, too, but they seem to have
forgotten that," I say.
Gale's expression darkens. "Peeta might have done a
lot of damage tonight. Most of the rebels will dismiss what
he said immediately, of course. But there are districts
where the resistance is shakier. The cease-fire's clearly
President Snow's idea. But it seems so reasonable coming
out of Peeta's mouth."
I'm afraid of Gale's answer, but I ask anyway. "Why do
you think he said it?"
"He might have been tortured. Or persuaded. My
guess is he made some kind of deal to protect you. He'd
put forth the idea of the cease-fire if Snow let him present
you as a confused pregnant girl who had no idea what was
going on when she was taken prisoner by the rebels. This
way, if the districts lose, there's still a chance of leniency for
you. If you play it right." I must still look perplexed because
Gale delivers the next line very slowly. "Katniss...he's still
trying to keep you alive."
To keep me alive? And then I understand. The Games
are still on. We have left the arena, but since Peeta and I
weren't killed, his last wish to preserve my life still stands.
His idea is to have me lie low, remain safe and imprisoned,
while the war plays out. Then neither side will really have
cause to kill me. And Peeta? If the rebels win, it will be
disastrous for him. If the Capitol wins, who knows? Maybe
we'll both be allowed to live--if I play it right--to watch the
Games go on....
Images flash through my mind: the spear piercing
Rue's body in the arena, Gale hanging senseless from the
whipping post, the corpse-littered wasteland of my home.
And for what? For what? As my blood turns hot, I remember
other things. My first glimpse of an uprising in District 8.
The victors locked hand in hand the night before the
Quarter Quell. And how it was no accident, my shooting that
arrow into the force field in the arena. How badly I wanted it
to lodge deep in the heart of my enemy.
I spring up, upsetting a box of a hundred pencils,
sending them scattering around the floor.
"What is it?" Gale asks.
"There can't be a cease-fire." I lean down, fumbling as I
shove the sticks of dark gray graphite back into the box.
"We can't go back."
"I know." Gale sweeps up a handful of pencils and taps
them on the floor into perfect alignment.
"Whatever reason Peeta had for saying those things,
he's wrong." The stupid sticks won't go in the box and I
snap several in my frustration.
"I know. Give it here. You're breaking them to bits." He
pulls the box from my hands and refills it with swift, concise
motions.
"He doesn't know what they did to Twelve. If he
could've seen what was on the ground--" I start.
"Katniss, I'm not arguing. If I could hit a button and kill
every living soul working for the Capitol, I would do it.
Without hesitation." He slides the last pencil into the box
and flips the lid closed. "The question is, what are you
going to do?"
It turns out the question that's been eating away at me
has only ever had one possible answer. But it took Peeta's
ploy for me to recognize it.
What am I going to do?
I take a deep breath. My arms rise slightly--as if
recalling the black-and-white wings Cinna gave me--then
come to rest at my sides.
"I'm going to be the Mockingjay."
3
Buttercup's eyes reflect the faint glow of the safety light
over the door as he lies in the crook of Prim's arm, back on
the job, protecting her from the night. She's snuggled close
to my mother. Asleep, they look just as they did the morning
of the reaping that landed me in my first Games. I have a
bed to myself because I'm recuperating and because no
one can sleep with me anyway, what with the nightmares
and the thrashing around.
After tossing and turning for hours, I finally accept that it
will be a wakeful night. Under Buttercup's watchful eye, I
tiptoe across the cold tiled floor to the dresser.
The middle drawer contains my government-issued
clothes. Everyone wears the same gray pants and shirt, the
shirt tucked in at the waist. Underneath the clothes, I keep
the few items I had on me when I was lifted from the arena.
My mockingjay pin. Peeta's token, the gold locket with
photos of my mother and Prim and Gale inside. A silver
parachute that holds a spile for tapping trees, and the pearl
Peeta gave me a few hours before I blew out the force field.
District 13 confiscated my tube of skin ointment for use in
the hospital, and my bow and arrows because only guards
have clearance to carry weapons. They're in safekeeping in
the armory.
I feel around for the parachute and slide my fingers
inside until they close around the pearl. I sit back on my bed
cross-legged and find myself rubbing the smooth iridescent
surface of the pearl back and forth against my lips. For
some reason, it's soothing. A cool kiss from the giver
himself.
"Katniss?" Prim whispers. She's awake, peering at
me through the darkness. "What's wrong?"
"Nothing. Just a bad dream. Go back to sleep." It's
automatic. Shutting Prim and my mother out of things to
shield them.
Careful not to rouse my mother, Prim eases herself
from the bed, scoops up Buttercup, and sits beside me.
She touches the hand that has curled around the pearl.
"You're cold." Taking a spare blanket from the foot of the
bed, she wraps it around all three of us, enveloping me in
her warmth and Buttercup's furry heat as well. "You could
tell me, you know. I'm good at keeping secrets. Even from
Mother."
She's really gone, then. The little girl with the back of
her shirt sticking out like a duck tail, the one who needed
help reaching the dishes, and who begged to see the
frosted cakes in the bakery window. Time and tragedy have
forced her to grow too quickly, at least for my taste, into a
young woman who stitches bleeding wounds and knows
our mother can hear only so much.
"Tomorrow morning, I'm going to agree to be the
Mockingjay," I tell her.
"Because you want to or because you feel forced into
it?" she asks.
I laugh a little. "Both, I guess. No, I want to. I have to, if it
will help the rebels defeat Snow." I squeeze the pearl more
tightly in my fist. "It's just...Peeta. I'm afraid if we do win, the
rebels will execute him as a traitor."
Prim thinks this over. "Katniss, I don't think you
understand how important you are to the cause. Important
people usually get what they want. If you want to keep
Peeta safe from the rebels, you can."
I guess I'm important. They went to a lot of trouble to
rescue me. They took me to 12. "You mean...I could
demand that they give Peeta immunity? And they'd have to
agree to it?"
"I think you could demand almost anything and they'd
have to agree to it." Prim wrinkles her brow. "Only how do
you know they'll keep their word?"
I remember all of the lies Haymitch told Peeta and me
to get us to do what he wanted. What's to keep the rebels
from reneging on the deal? A verbal promise behind closed
doors, even a statement written on paper--these could
easily evaporate after the war. Their existence or validity
denied. Any witnesses in Command will be worthless. In
fact, they'd probably be the ones writing out Peeta's death
warrant. I'll need a much larger pool of witnesses. I'll need
everyone I can get.
"It will have to be public," I say. Buttercup gives a flick
of his tail that I take as agreement. "I'll make Coin announce
it in front of the entire population of Thirteen."
Prim smiles. "Oh, that's good. It's not a guarantee, but
it will be much harder for them to back out of their promise."
I feel the kind of relief that follows an actual solution. "I
should wake you up more often, little duck."
"I wish you would," says Prim. She gives me a kiss.
"Try and sleep now, all right?" And I do.
In the morning, I see that 7:00--Breakfast is directly
followed by 7:30--Command, which is fine since I may as
well start the ball rolling. At the dining hall, I flash my
schedule, which includes some kind of ID number, in front
of a sensor. As I slide my tray along the metal shelf before
the vats of food, I see breakfast is its usual dependable
self--a bowl of hot grain, a cup of milk, and a small scoop of
fruit or vegetables. Today, mashed turnips. All of it comes
from 13's underground farms. I sit at the table assigned to
the Everdeens and the Hawthornes and some other
refugees, and shovel my food down, wishing for seconds,
but there are never seconds here. They have nutrition down
to a science. You leave with enough calories to take you to
the next meal, no more, no less. Serving size is based on
your age, height, body type, health, and amount of physical
labor required by your schedule. The people from 12 are
already getting slightly larger portions than the natives of 13
in an effort to bring us up to weight. I guess bony soldiers
tire too quickly. It's working, though. In just a month, we're
starting to look healthier, particularly the kids.
Gale sets his tray beside me and I try not to stare at his
turnips too pathetically, because I really want more, and
he's already too quick to slip me his food. Even though I
turn my attention to neatly folding my napkin, a spoonful of
turnips slops into my bowl.
"You've got to stop that," I say. But since I'm already
scooping up the stuff, it's not too convincing. "Really. It's
probably illegal or something." They have very strict rules
about food. For instance, if you don't finish something and
want to save it for later, you can't take it from the dining hall.
Apparently, in the early days, there was some incident of
food hoarding. For a couple of people like Gale and me,
who've been in charge of our families' food supply for
years, it doesn't sit well. We know how to be hungry, but not
how to be told how to handle what provisions we have. In
some ways, District 13 is even more controlling than the
Capitol.
"What can they do? They've already got my
communicuff," says Gale.
As I scrape my bowl clean, I have an inspiration. "Hey,
maybe I should make that a condition of being the
Mockingjay."
"That I can feed you turnips?" he says.
"No, that we can hunt." That gets his attention. "We'd
have to give everything to the kitchen. But still, we could..." I
don't have to finish because he knows. We could be
aboveground. Out in the woods. We could be ourselves
again.
"Do it," he says. "Now's the time. You could ask for the
moon and they'd have to find some way to get it."
He doesn't know that I'm already asking for the moon
by demanding they spare Peeta's life. Before I can decide
whether or not to tell him, a bell signals the end of our
eating shift. The thought of facing Coin alone makes me
nervous. "What are you scheduled for?"
Gale checks his arm. "Nuclear History class. Where,
by the way, your absence has been noted."
"I have to go to Command. Come with me?" I ask.
"All right. But they might throw me out after yesterday."
As we go to drop off our trays, he says, "You know, you
better put Buttercup on your list of demands, too. I don't
think the concept of useless pets is well known here."
"Oh, they'll find him a job. Tattoo it on his paw every
morning," I say. But I make a mental note to include him for
Prim's sake.
By the time we get to Command, Coin, Plutarch, and
all their people have already assembled. The sight of Gale
raises some eyebrows, but no one throws him out. My
mental notes have become too jumbled, so I ask for a
piece of paper and a pencil right off. My apparent interest
in the proceedings--the first I've shown since I've been here-
-takes them by surprise. Several looks are exchanged.
Probably they had some extra-special lecture planned for
