



louder than a whisper, “wondering, wondering, why 
the Elder Wand refuses to be what it ought to be, 
refuses to perform as legend says it must perform for 
its rightful owner ... and I think I have the answer.” 

Snape did not speak. 

“Perhaps you already know it? You are a clever man, 
after all, Severus. You have been a good and faithful 
servant, and I regret what must happen.” 

“My Lord — ” 

“The Elder Wand cannot serve me properly, Severus, 
because I am not its true master. The Elder Wand 
belongs to the wizard who killed its last owner. You 
killed Albus Dumbledore. While you live, Severus, the 
Elder Wand cannot be truly mine.” 

“My Lord!” Snape protested, raising his wand. 

“It cannot be any other way,” said Voldemort. “I must 
master the wand, Severus. Master the wand, and I 
master Potter at last.” 

And Voldemort swiped the air with the Elder Wand. It 
did nothing to Snape, who for a split second seemed 
to think he had been reprieved: But then Voldemort’s 
intention became clear. The snake’s cage was rolling 
through the air, and before Snape could do anything 
more than yell, it had encased him, head and 
shoulders, and Voldemort spoke in Parseltongue. 

“Kill.” 

There was a terrible scream. Harry saw Snape ’s face 
losing the little color it had left; it whitened as his 
black eyes widened, as the snake’s fangs pierced his 



Page | 742 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




neck, as he failed to push the enchanted cage off 
himself, as his knees gave way and he fell to the floor. 

“I regret it,” said Voldemort coldly. 

He turned away; there was no sadness in him, no 
remorse. It was time to leave this shack and take 
charge, with a wand that would now do his full 
bidding. He pointed it at the starry cage holding the 
snake, which drifted upward, off Snape, who fell 
sideways onto the floor, blood gushing from the 
wounds in his neck. Voldemort swept from the room 
without a backward glance, and the great serpent 
floated after him in its huge protective sphere. 

Back in the tunnel and his own mind, Harry opened 
his eyes: He had drawn blood biting down on his 
knuckles in the effort not to shout out. Now he was 
looking through the tiny crack between crate and 
wall, watching a foot in a black boot trembling on the 
floor. 

“Harry!” breathed Hermione behind him, but he had 
already pointed his wand at the crate blocking his 
view. It lifted an inch into the air and drifted sideways 
silently. As quietly as he could, he pulled himself up 
into the room. 

He did not know why he was doing it, why he was 
approaching the dying man: He did not know what he 
felt as he saw Snape’s white face, and the fingers 
trying to staunch the bloody wound at his neck. 

Harry took off the Invisibility Cloak and looked down 
upon the man he hated, whose widening black eyes 
found Harry as he tried to speak. Harry bent over 
him, and Snape seized the front of his robes and 
pulled him close. 



Page | 743 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




A terrible rasping, gurgling noise issued from Snape’s 
throat. 

“Take ... it. ... Take ... it. ...” 

Something more than blood was leaking from Snape. 
Silvery blue, neither gas nor liquid, it gushed from his 
mouth and his ears and his eyes, and Harry knew 
what it was, but did not know what to do — 

A flask, conjured from thin air, was thrust into his 
shaking hands by Hermione. Harry lifted the silvery 
substance into it with his wand. When the flask was 
full to the brim, and Snape looked as though there 
was no blood left in him, his grip on Harry’s robes 
slackened. 

“Look ... at ... me. ...” he whispered. 

The green eyes found the black, but after a second, 
something in the depths of the dark pair seemed to 
vanish, leaving them fixed, blank, and empty. The 
hand holding Harry thudded to the floor, and Snape 
moved no more. 



Page | 744 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 






THE PRINCE’S TALE 

Harry remained kneeling at Snape’s side, simply 
staring down at him, until quite suddenly a high, cold 
voice spoke so close to them that Harry jumped to his 
feet, the flask gripped tightly in his hands, thinking 
that Voldemort had reentered the room. 

Voldemort ’s voice reverberated from the walls and 
floor, and Harry realized that he was talking to 
Hogwarts and to all the surrounding area, that the 
residents of Hogsmeade and all those still fighting in 
the castle would hear him as clearly as if he stood 
beside them, his breath on the back of their necks, a 
deathblow away. 

“You have fought,” said the high, cold voice, 

“valiantly. Lord Voldemort knows how to value 
bravery. 

“Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue 
to resist me, you will all die, one by one. I do not wish 
this to happen. Every drop of magical blood spilled is 
a loss and a waste. 

Page | 745 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 



“Lord Voldemort is merciful. I command my forces to 
retreat immediately. 



“You have one hour. Dispose of your dead with 
dignity. Treat your injured. 

“I speak now, Harry Potter, directly to you. You have 
permitted your friends to die for you rather than face 
me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden 
Forest. If, at the end of that hour, you have not come 
to me, have not given yourself up, then battle 
recommences. This time, I shall enter the fray myself, 
Harry Potter, and I shall find you, and I shall punish 
every last man, woman, and child who has tried to 
conceal you from me. One hour.” 

Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads frantically, 
looking at Harry. 

“Don’t listen to him,” said Ron. 

“It’ll be all right,” said Hermione wildly. “Let’s — let’s 
get back to the castle, if he’s gone to the forest we’ll 
need to think of a new plan — ” 

She glanced at Snape’s body, then hurried back to 
the tunnel entrance. Ron followed her. Harry gathered 
up the Invisibility Cloak, then looked down at Snape. 
He did not know what to feel, except shock at the way 
Snape had been killed, and the reason for which it 
had been done. ... 

They crawled back through the tunnel, none of them 
talking, and Harry wondered whether Ron and 
Hermione could still hear Voldemort ringing in their 
heads, as he could. 



Page | 746 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




You have permitted your friends to die for you rather 
than face me yourself I shall wait for one hour in the 
Forbidden Forest. . . . One hour. . . . 

Small bundles seemed to litter the lawn at the front of 
the castle. It could only be an hour or so from dawn, 
yet it was pitch-black. The three of them hurried 
toward the stone steps. A lone clog, the size of a small 
boat, lay abandoned in front of them. There was no 
other sign of Grawp or of his attacker. 

The castle was unnaturally silent. There were no 
flashes of light now, no bangs or screams or shouts. 
The flagstones of the deserted entrance hall were 
stained with blood. Emeralds were still scattered all 
over the floor, along with pieces of marble and 
splintered wood. Part of the banisters had been blown 
away. 

“Where is everyone?” whispered Hermione. 

Ron led the way to the Great Hall. Harry stopped in 
the doorway. 

The House tables were gone and the room was 
crowded. The survivors stood in groups, their arms 
around each other’s necks. The injured were being 
treated upon the raised platform by Madam Pomfrey 
and a group of helpers. Firenze was amongst the 
injured; his flank poured blood and he shook where 
he lay, unable to stand. 

The dead lay in a row in the middle of the Hall. Harry 
could not see Fred’s body, because his family 
surrounded him. George was kneeling at his head; 
Mrs. Weasley was lying across Fred’s chest, her body 
shaking, Mr. Weasley stroking her hair while tears 
cascaded down his cheeks. 



Page | 747 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




Without a word to Harry, Ron and Hermione walked 
away. Harry saw Hermione approach Ginny, whose 
face was swollen and blotchy, and hug her. Ron 
joined Bill, Fleur, and Percy, who flung an arm 
around Ron’s shoulders. As Ginny and Hermione 
moved closer to the rest of the family, Harry had a 
clear view of the bodies lying next to Fred: Remus and 
Tonks, pale and still and peaceful-looking, apparently 
asleep beneath the dark, enchanted ceiling. 

The Great Hall seemed to fly away, become smaller, 
shrink, as Harry reeled backward from the doorway. 
He could not draw breath. He could not bear to look 
at any of the other bodies, to see who else had died 
for him. He could not bear to join the Weasleys, could 
not look into their eyes, when if he had given himself 
up in the first place, Fred might never have died. ... 

He turned away and ran up the marble staircase. 
Lupin, Tonks ... He yearned not to feel. ... He wished 
he could rip out his heart, his innards, everything 
that was screaming inside him. ... 

The castle was completely empty; even the ghosts 
seemed to have joined the mass mourning in the 
Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping, clutching the 
crystal flask of Snape’s last thoughts, and he did not 
slow down until he reached the stone gargoyle 
guarding the headmaster’s office. 

“Password?” 

“Dumbledore!” said Harry without thinking, because 
it was he whom he yearned to see, and to his surprise 
the gargoyle slid aside, revealing the spiral staircase 
behind. 

But when Harry burst into the circular office he found 
a change. The portraits that hung all around the 

Page | 748 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




walls were empty. Not a single headmaster or 
headmistress remained to see him; all, it seemed, had 
flitted away, charging through the paintings that lined 
the castle, so that they could have a clear view of 
what was going on. 

Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumbledore’s deserted 
frame, which hung directly behind the headmaster’s 
chair, then turned his back on it. The stone Pensieve 
lay in the cabinet where it had always been: Harry 
heaved it onto the desk and poured Snape’s memories 
into the wide basin with its runic markings around 
the edge. To escape into someone else’s head would 
be a blessed relief. ... Nothing that even Snape had 
left him could be worse than his own thoughts. The 
memories swirled, silver white and strange, and 
without hesitating, with a feeling of reckless 
abandonment, as though this would assuage his 
torturing grief, Harry dived. 

He fell headlong into sunlight, and his feet found 
warm ground. When he straightened up, he saw that 
he was in a nearly deserted playground. A single huge 
chimney dominated the distant skyline. Two girls 
were swinging backward and forward, and a skinny 
boy was watching them from behind a clump of 
bushes. His black hair was overlong and his clothes 
were so mismatched that it looked deliberate: too 
short jeans, a shabby, overlarge coat that might have 
belonged to a grown man, an odd smocklike shirt. 

Harry moved closer to the boy. Snape looked no more 
than nine or ten years old, sallow, small, stringy. 
There was undisguised greed in his thin face as he 
watched the younger of the two girls swinging higher 
and higher than her sister. 

“Lily, don’t do it!” shrieked the elder of the two. 



Page | 749 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height 
of its arc and flown into the air, quite literally flown, 
launched herself skyward with a great shout of 
laughter, and instead of crumpling on the playground 
asphalt, she soared like a trapeze artist through the 
air, staying up far too long, landing far too lightly. 

“Mummy told you not to!” 

Petunia stopped her swing by dragging the heels of 
her sandals on the ground, making a crunching, 
grinding sound, then leapt up, hands on hips. 

“Mummy said you weren’t allowed, Lily!” 

“But I’m fine,” said Lily, still giggling. “Tuney, look at 
this. Watch what I can do.” 

Petunia glanced around. The playground was 
deserted apart from themselves and, though the girls 
did not know it, Snape. Lily had picked up a fallen 
flower from the bush behind which Snape lurked. 
Petunia advanced, evidently torn between curiosity 
and disapproval. Lily waited until Petunia was near 
enough to have a clear view, then held out her palm. 
The flower sat there, opening and closing its petals, 
like some bizarre, many-lipped oyster. 

“Stop it!” shrieked Petunia. 

“It’s not hurting you,” said Lily, but she closed her 
hand on the blossom and threw it back to the ground. 

“It’s not right,” said Petunia, but her eyes had 
followed the flower’s flight to the ground and lingered 
upon it. “How do you do it?” she added, and there 
was definite longing in her voice. 



Page | 750 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” Snape could no longer contain 
himself, but had jumped out from behind the bushes. 
Petunia shrieked and ran backward toward the 
swings, but Lily, though clearly startled, remained 
where she was. Snape seemed to regret his 
appearance. A dull flush of color mounted the sallow 
cheeks as he looked at Lily. 

“What’s obvious?” asked Lily. 

Snape had an air of nervous excitement. With a 
glance at the distant Petunia, now hovering beside the 
swings, he lowered his voice and said, “I know what 
you are.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“You’re ... you’re a witch,” whispered Snape. 

She looked affronted. 

“ That’s not a very nice thing to say to somebody!” 

She turned, nose in the air, and marched off toward 
her sister. 

“No!” said Snape. He was highly colored now, and 
Harry wondered why he did not take off the 
ridiculously large coat, unless it was because he did 
not want to reveal the smock beneath it. He flapped 
after the girls, looking ludicrously batlike, like his 
older self. 

The sisters considered him, united in disapproval, 
both holding on to one of the swing poles as though it 
was the safe place in tag. 



Page | 751 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You are,” said Snape to Lily. “You are a witch. I’ve 
been watching you for a while. But there’s nothing 
wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a wizard.” 

Petunia’s laugh was like cold water. 

“Wizard!” she shrieked, her courage returned now 
that she had recovered from the shock of his 
unexpected appearance. “I know who you are. You’re 
that Snape boy! They live down Spinner’s End by the 
river,” she told Lily, and it was evident from her tone 
that she considered the address a poor 
recommendation. “Why have you been spying on us?” 

“Haven’t been spying,” said Snape, hot and 
uncomfortable and dirty-haired in the bright sunlight. 
“Wouldn’t spy on you, anyway,” he added spitefully, 

“ you’re a Muggle.” 

Though Petunia evidently did not understand the 
word, she could hardly mistake the tone. 

“Lily, come on, we’re leaving!” she said shrilly. Lily 
obeyed her sister at once, glaring at Snape as she left. 
He stood watching them as they marched through the 
playground gate, and Harry, the only one left to 
observe him, recognized Snape ’s bitter 
disappointment, and understood that Snape had been 
planning this moment for a while, and that it had all 
gone wrong. . . . 

The scene dissolved, and before Harry knew it, re- 
formed around him. He was now in a small thicket of 
trees. He could see a sunlit river glittering through 
their trunks. The shadows cast by the trees made a 
basin of cool green shade. Two children sat facing 
each other, cross-legged on the ground. Snape had 
removed his coat now; his odd smock looked less 
peculiar in the half light. 

Page | 752 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




"... and the Ministry can punish you if you do magic 
outside school, you get letters.” 

“But I have done magic outside school!” 

“We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let 
you off when you’re a kid and you can’t help it. But 
once you’re eleven,” he nodded importantly, “and they 
start training you, then you’ve got to go careful.” 

There was a little silence. Lily had picked up a fallen 
twig and twirled it in the air, and Harry knew that she 
was imagining sparks trailing from it. Then she 
dropped the twig, leaned in toward the boy, and said, 
“It is real, isn’t it? It’s not a joke? Petunia says you’re 
lying to me. Petunia says there isn’t a Hogwarts. It is 
real, isn’t it?” 

“It’s real for us,” said Snape. “Not for her. But we’ll get 
the letter, you and me.” 

“Really?” whispered Lily. 

“Definitely,” said Snape, and even with his poorly cut 
hair and his odd clothes, he struck an oddly 
impressive figure sprawled in front of her, brimful of 
confidence in his destiny. 

“And will it really come by owl?” Lily whispered. 

“Normally,” said Snape. “But you’re Muggle-born, so 
someone from the school will have to come and 
explain to your parents.” 

“Does it make a difference, being Muggle-born?” 

Snape hesitated. His black eyes, eager in the greenish 
gloom, moved over the pale face, the dark red hair. 



Page | 753 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” he said. “It doesn’t make any difference.” 

“Good,” said Lily, relaxing: It was clear that she had 
been worrying. 

“You’ve got loads of magic,” said Snape. “I saw that. 
All the time I was watching you ...” 

His voice trailed away; she was not listening, but had 
stretched out on the leafy ground and was looking up 
at the canopy of leaves overhead. He watched her as 
greedily as he had watched her in the playground. 

“How are things at your house?” Lily asked. 

A little crease appeared between his eyes. 

“Fine,” he said. 

“They’re not arguing anymore?” 

“Oh yes, they’re arguing,” said Snape. He picked up a 
fistful of leaves and began tearing them apart, 
apparently unaware of what he was doing. “But it 
won’t be that long and I’ll be gone.” 

“Doesn’t your dad like magic?” 

“He doesn’t like anything, much,” said Snape. 

“Severus?” 

A little smile twisted Snape ’s mouth when she said 
his name. 

“Yeah?” 

“Tell me about the dementors again.” 



Page | 754 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“What d’you want to know about them for?” 

“If I use magic outside school — ” 

“They wouldn’t give you to the dementors for that! 
Dementors are for people who do really bad stuff. 
They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban. You’re not 
going to end up in Azkaban, you’re too — ” 

He turned red again and shredded more leaves. Then 
a small rustling noise behind Harry made him turn: 
Petunia, hiding behind a tree, had lost her footing. 

“Tuney!” said Lily, surprise and welcome in her voice, 
but Snape had jumped to his feet. 

“Who’s spying now?” he shouted. “What d’you want?” 

Petunia was breathless, alarmed at being caught. 
Harry could see her struggling for something hurtful 
to say. 

“What is that you’re wearing, anyway?” she said, 
pointing at Snape’s chest. “Your mum’s blouse?” 

There was a crack: A branch over Petunia’s head had 
fallen. Lily screamed: The branch caught Petunia on 
the shoulder, and she staggered backward and burst 
into tears. 

“Tuney!” 

But Petunia was running away. Lily rounded on 
Snape. 

“Did you make that happen?” 

“No.” He looked both defiant and scared. 



Page | 755 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“You did!” She was backing away from him. “You did). 
You hurt her!” 



“No — no I didn’t!” 

But the lie did not convince Lily: After one last 
burning look, she ran from the little thicket, off after 
her sister, and Snape looked miserable and confused. 



And the scene re-formed. Harry looked around: He 
was on platform nine and three-quarters, and Snape 
stood beside him, slightly hunched, next to a thin, 
sallow-faced, sour-looking woman who greatly 
resembled him. Snape was staring at a family of four 
a short distance away. The two girls stood a little 
apart from their parents. Lily seemed to be pleading 
with her sister; Harry moved closer to listen. 

"... I’m sorry, Tuney, I’m sorry! Listen — ” She caught 
her sister’s hand and held tight to it, even though 
Petunia tried to pull it away. “Maybe once I’m there — 
no, listen, Tuney! Maybe once I’m there, I’ll be able to 
go to Professor Dumbledore and persuade him to 
change his mind!” 

“I don’t — want — to — go!” said Petunia, and she 
dragged her hand back out of her sister’s grasp. “You 
think I want to go to some stupid castle and learn to 
be a — a — ” 

Her pale eyes roved over the platform, over the cats 
mewling in their owners’ arms, over the owls 
fluttering and hooting at each other in cages, over the 
students, some already in their long black robes, 
loading trunks onto the scarlet steam engine or else 
greeting one another with glad cries after a summer 
apart. 

Page | 756 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“ — you think I want to be a — a freak?” 

Lily’s eyes filled with tears as Petunia succeeded in 
tugging her hand away. 

“I’m not a freak,” said Lily. “That’s a horrible thing to 
say.” 

“That’s where you’re going,” said Petunia with relish. 
“A special school for freaks. You and that Snape boy 
... weirdos, that’s what you two are. It’s good you’re 
being separated from normal people. It’s for our 
safety.” 

Lily glanced toward her parents, who were looking 
around the platform with an air of wholehearted 
enjoyment, drinking in the scene. Then she looked 
back at her sister, and her voice was low and fierce. 

“You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when 
you wrote to the headmaster and begged him to take 
you.” 

Petunia turned scarlet. 

“Beg? I didn’t beg!” 

“I saw his reply. It was very kind.” 

“You shouldn’t have read — ” whispered Petunia, “that 
was my private — how could you — ?” 

Lily gave herself away by half-glancing toward where 
Snape stood nearby. Petunia gasped. 

“That boy found it! You and that boy have been 
sneaking in my room!” 



Page | 757 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“No — not sneaking — ” Now Lily was on the 
defensive. “Severus saw the envelope, and he couldn’t 
believe a Muggle could have contacted Hogwarts, 
that’s all! He says there must be wizards working 
undercover in the postal service who take care of — ” 

“Apparently wizards poke their noses in everywhere!” 
said Petunia, now as pale as she had been flushed. 

“ Freak).” she spat at her sister, and she flounced off to 
where her parents stood. ... 

The scene dissolved again. Snape was hurrying along 
the corridor of the Hogwarts Express as it clattered 
through the countryside. He had already changed into 
his school robes, had perhaps taken the first 
opportunity to take off his dreadful Muggle clothes. At 
last he stopped, outside a compartment in which a 
group of rowdy boys were talking. Hunched in a 
corner seat beside the window was Lily, her face 
pressed against the windowpane. 

Snape slid open the compartment door and sat down 
opposite Lily. She glanced at him and then looked 
back out of the window. She had been crying. 

“I don’t want to talk to you,” she said in a constricted 
voice. 

“Why not?” 

“Tuney h-hates me. Because we saw that letter from 
Dumbledore.” 

“So what?” 

She threw him a look of deep dislike. 

“So she’s my sister!” 



Page | 758 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s only a — ” He caught himself quickly; Lily, too 
busy trying to wipe her eyes without being noticed, 
did not hear him. 

“But we’re going!” he said, unable to suppress the 
exhilaration in his voice. “This is it! We’re off to 
Hogwarts!” 

She nodded, mopping her eyes, but in spite of herself, 
she half smiled. 

“You’d better be in Slytherin,” said Snape, encouraged 
that she had brightened a little. 

“Slytherin?” 

One of the boys sharing the compartment, who had 
shown no interest at all in Lily or Snape until that 
point, looked around at the word, and Harry, whose 
attention had been focused entirely on the two beside 
the window, saw his father: slight, black-haired like 
Snape, but with that indefinable air of having been 
well-cared-for, even adored, that Snape so 
conspicuously lacked. 

“Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, 
wouldn’t you?” James asked the boy lounging on the 
seats opposite him, and with a jolt, Harry realized 
that it was Sirius. Sirius did not smile. 

“My whole family have been in Slytherin,” he said. 

“Blimey,” said James, “and I thought you seemed all 
right!” 

Sirius grinned. 

“Maybe I’ll break the tradition. Where are you 
heading, if you’ve got the choice?” 

Page | 759 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




James lifted an invisible sword. 



“ ‘Gryffindor, where dwell the brave at heart!’ Like my 
dad.” 

Snape made a small, disparaging noise. James turned 
on him. 

“Got a problem with that?” 

“No,” said Snape, though his slight sneer said 
otherwise. “If you’d rather be brawny than brainy — ” 

“Where ’re you hoping to go, seeing as you’re neither?” 
interjected Sirius. 

James roared with laughter. Lily sat up, rather 
flushed, and looked from James to Sirius in dislike. 

“Come on, Severus, let’s find another compartment.” 

“Oooooo ...” 

James and Sirius imitated her lofty voice; James tried 
to trip Snape as he passed. 

“See ya, Snivellus!” a voice called, as the 
compartment door slammed. ... 

And the scene dissolved once more. ... 

Harry was standing right behind Snape as they faced 
the candlelit House tables, lined with rapt faces. Then 
Professor McGonagall said, “Evans, Lily!” 

He watched his mother walk forward on trembling 
legs and sit down upon the rickety stool. Professor 
McGonagall dropped the Sorting Hat onto her head, 



Page | 760 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




and barely a second after it had touched the dark red 
hair, the hat cried, “ Gryffindoii” 



Harry heard Snape let out a tiny groan. Lily took off 
the hat, handed it back to Professor McGonagall, then 
hurried toward the cheering Gryffindors, but as she 
went she glanced back at Snape, and there was a sad 
little smile on her face. Harry saw Sirius move up the 
bench to make room for her. She took one look at 
him, seemed to recognize him from the train, folded 
her arms, and firmly turned her back on him. 

The roll call continued. Harry watched Lupin, 
Pettigrew, and his father join Lily and Sirius at the 
Gryffindor table. At last, when only a dozen students 
remained to be sorted, Professor McGonagall called 
Snape. 

Harry walked with him to the stool, watched him 
place the hat upon his head. “Slytherinl” cried the 
Sorting Hat. 

And Severus Snape moved off to the other side of the 
Hall, away from Lily, to where the Slytherins were 
cheering him, to where Lucius Malfoy, a prefect badge 
gleaming upon his chest, patted Snape on the back as 
he sat down beside him. ... 

And the scene changed. ... 

Lily and Snape were walking across the castle 
courtyard, evidently arguing. Harry hurried to catch 
up with them, to listen in. As he reached them, he 
realized how much taller they both were: A few years 
seemed to have passed since their Sorting. 

"... thought we were supposed to be friends?” Snape 
was saying. “Best friends?” 

Page | 761 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




“We are, Sev, but I don’t like some of the people you’re 
hanging round with! I’m sorry, but I detest Avery and 
Mulciber! Mulciber\ What do you see in him, Sev, he’s 
creepy! D’you know what he tried to do to Mary 
Macdonald the other day?” 

Lily had reached a pillar and leaned against it, 
looking up into the thin, sallow face. 

“That was nothing,” said Snape. “It was a laugh, 
that’s all — ” 

“It was Dark Magic, and if you think that’s funny — ” 

“What about the stuff Potter and his mates get up 
to?” demanded Snape. His color rose again as he said 
it, unable, it seemed, to hold in his resentment. 

“What’s Potter got to do with anything?” said Lily. 

“They sneak out at night. There’s something weird 
about that Lupin. Where does he keep going?” 

“He’s ill,” said Lily. “They say he’s ill — ” 

“Every month at the full moon?” said Snape. 

“I know your theory,” said Lily, and she sounded cold. 
“Why are you so obsessed with them anyway? Why do 
you care what they’re doing at night?” 

“I’m just trying to show you they’re not as wonderful 
as everyone seems to think they are.” 

The intensity of his gaze made her blush. 

“They don’t use Dark Magic, though.” She dropped 
her voice. “And you’re being really ungrateful. I heard 
what happened the other night. You went sneaking 

Page | 762 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




down that tunnel by the Whomping Willow, and 
James Potter saved you from whatever’s down there 



Snape’s whole face contorted and he spluttered, 
“Saved? Saved? You think he was playing the hero? 

He was saving his neck and his friends’ too! You’re 
not going to — I won’t let you — ” 

“Let me? Let me?” 

Lily’s bright green eyes were slits. Snape backtracked 
at once. 

“I didn’t mean — I just don’t want to see you made a 
fool of — He fancies you, James Potter fancies you!” 
The words seemed wrenched from him against his 
will. “And he’s not ... everyone thinks ... big Quidditch 
hero — ” Snape’s bitterness and dislike were rendering 
him incoherent, and Lily’s eyebrows were traveling 
farther and farther up her forehead. 

“I know James Potter’s an arrogant toerag,” she said, 
cutting across Snape. “I don’t need you to tell me 
that. But Mulciber’s and Avery’s idea of humor is just 
evil. Evil, Sev. I don’t understand how you can be 
friends with them.” 

Harry doubted that Snape had even heard her 
strictures on Mulciber and Avery. The moment she 
had insulted James Potter, his whole body had 
relaxed, and as they walked away there was a new 
spring in Snape’s step. ... 

And the scene dissolved. ... 

Harry watched again as Snape left the Great Hall after 
sitting his O.W.L. in Defense Against the Dark Arts, 
watched as he wandered away from the castle and 

Page | 763 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling 




strayed inadvertently close to the place beneath the 
beech tree where James, Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew 
sat together. But Harry kept his distance this time, 
because he knew what happened after James had 
hoisted Severus into the air and taunted him; he 
knew what had been done and said, and it gave him 
no pleasure to hear it again. ... He watched as Lily 
joined the group and went to Snape’s defense. 
Distantly he heard Snape shout at her in his 
humiliation and his fury, the unforgivable word: 
“MudbloocL.” 

The scene changed. ... 

