
“That’s three Galleons, nine Sickles, and a Knut,” said 
Fred, examining the many boxes in Ron’s arms. 
“Cough up.” 

“I’m your brother!” 



Page | 135 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“And that’s our stuff you’re nicking. Three Galleons, 
nine Sickles. I’ll knock off the Knut.” 

“But I haven’t got three Galleons, nine Sickles!” 

“You’d better put it back then, and mind you put it on 
the right shelves.” 

Ron dropped several boxes, swore, and made a rude 
hand gesture at Fred that was unfortunately spotted 
by Mrs. Weasley, who had chosen that moment to 
appear. 

“If I see you do that again I’ll jinx your fingers 
together,” she said sharply. 

“Mum, can I have a Pygmy Puff?” said Ginny at once. 
“A what?” said Mrs. Weasley warily. 

“Look, they’re so sweet. ...” 

Mrs. Weasley moved aside to look at the Pygmy Puffs, 
and Harry, Ron, and Hermione momentarily had an 
unimpeded view out of the window. Draco Malfoy was 
hurrying up the street alone. As he passed Weasleys’ 
Wizard Wheezes, he glanced over his shoulder. 
Seconds later, he moved beyond the scope of the 
window and they lost sight of him. 

“Wonder where his mummy is?” said Harry, frowning. 

“Given her the slip by the looks of it,” said Ron. 

“Why, though?” said Hermione. 

Harry said nothing; he was thinking too hard. 

Narcissa Malfoy would not have let her precious son 
out of her sight willingly; Malfoy must have made a 

Page | 136 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




real effort to free himself from her clutches. Harry, 
knowing and loathing Malfoy, was sure the reason 
could not be innocent. 

He glanced around. Mrs. Weasley and Ginny were 
bending over the Pygmy Puffs. Mr. Weasley was 
delightedly examining a pack of Muggle marked 
playing cards. Fred and George were both helping 
customers. On the other side of the glass, Hagrid was 
standing with his back to them, looking up and down 
the street. 

“Get under here, quick,” said Harry, pulling his 
Invisibility Cloak out of his bag. 

“Oh — I don’t know, Harry,” said Hermione, looking 
uncertainly toward Mrs. Weasley. 

“Come on\” said Ron. 

She hesitated for a second longer, then ducked under 
the cloak with Harry and Ron. Nobody noticed them 
vanish; they were all too interested in Fred and 
George’s products. Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
squeezed their way out of the door as quickly as they 
could, but by the time they gained the street, Malfoy 
had disappeared just as successfully as they had. 

“He was going in that direction,” murmured Harry as 
quietly as possible, so that the humming Hagrid 
would not hear them. “C’mon.” 

They scurried along, peering left and right, through 
shop windows and doors, until Hermione pointed 
ahead. 

“That’s him, isn’t it?” she whispered. “Turning left?” 
“Big surprise,” whispered Ron. 

Page | 137 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




For Malfoy had glanced around, then slid into 
Knockturn Alley and out of sight. 



“Quick, or we’ll lose him,” said Harry, speeding up. 

“Our feet’ll be seen!” said Hermione anxiously, as the 
cloak flapped a little around their ankles; it was much 
more difficult hiding all three of them under the cloak 
nowadays. 

“It doesn’t matter,” said Harry impatiently. “Just 
hurry!” 

But Knockturn Alley, the side street devoted to the 
Dark Arts, looked completely deserted. They peered 
into windows as they passed, but none of the shops 
seemed to have any customers at all. Harry supposed 
it was a bit of a giveaway in these dangerous and 
suspicious times to buy Dark artifacts — or at least, 
to be seen buying them. 

Hermione gave his arm a hard pinch. 

“Ouch!” 

“Shh! Look! He’s in there!” she breathed in Harry’s 
ear. 

They had drawn level with the only shop in 
Knockturn Alley that Harry had ever visited, Borgin 
and Burkes, which sold a wide variety of sinister 
objects. There in the midst of the cases full of skulls 
and old bottles stood Draco Malfoy with his back to 
them, just visible beyond the very same large black 
cabinet in which Harry had once hidden to avoid 
Malfoy and his father. Judging by the movements of 
Malfoy’s hands, he was talking animatedly. The 
proprietor of the shop, Mr. Borgin, an oily-haired, 



Page | 138 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




stooping man, stood facing Malfoy. He was wearing a 
curious expression of mingled resentment and fear. 



“If only we could hear what they’re saying!” said 
Hermione. 

“We can!” said Ron excitedly. “Hang on — damn — ” 

He dropped a couple more of the boxes he was still 
clutching as he fumbled with the largest. 

“Extendable Ears, look!” 

“Fantastic!” said Hermione, as Ron unraveled the 
long, fleshcolored strings and began to feed them 
toward the bottom of the door. “Oh, I hope the door 
isn’t Imperturbable — ” 

“No!” said Ron gleefully. “Listen!” 

They put their heads together and listened intently to 
the ends of the strings, through which Malfoy’s voice 
could be heard loud and clear, as though a radio had 
been turned on. 

"... you know how to fix it?” 

“Possibly,” said Borgin, in a tone that suggested he 
was unwilling to commit himself. “I’ll need to see it, 
though. Why don’t you bring it into the shop?” 

“I can’t,” said Malfoy. “It’s got to stay put. I just need 
you to tell me how to do it.” 

Harry saw Borgin lick his lips nervously. 

“Well, without seeing it, I must say it will be a very 
difficult job, perhaps impossible. I couldn’t guarantee 
anything.” 

Page | 139 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No?” said Malfoy, and Harry knew, just by his tone, 
that Malfoy was sneering. “Perhaps this will make you 
more confident.” 

He moved toward Borgin and was blocked from view 
by the cabinet. Harry, Ron, and Hermione shuffled 
sideways to try and keep him in sight, but all they 
could see was Borgin, looking very frightened. 

“Tell anyone,” said Malfoy, “and there will be 
retribution. You know Fenrir Greyback? He’s a family 
friend. He’ll be dropping in from time to time to make 
sure you’re giving the problem your full attention.” 

“There will be no need for — ” 

“I’ll decide that,” said Malfoy. “Well, I’d better be off. 
And don’t forget to keep that one safe, I’ll need it.” 

“Perhaps you’d like to take it now?” 

“No, of course I wouldn’t, you stupid little man, how 
would I look carrying that down the street? Just don’t 
sell it.” 

“Of course not ... sir.” 

Borgin made a bow as deep as the one Harry had 
once seen him give Lucius Malfoy. 

“Not a word to anyone, Borgin, and that includes my 
mother, understand?” 

“Naturally, naturally,” murmured Borgin, bowing 
again. 

Next moment, the bell over the door tinkled loudly as 
Malfoy stalked out of the shop looking very pleased 
with himself. He passed so close to Harry, Ron, and 

Page | 140 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione that they felt the cloak flutter around their 
knees again. Inside the shop, Borgin remained frozen; 
his unctuous smile had vanished; he looked worried. 

“What was that about?” whispered Ron, reeling in the 
Extendable Ears. 

“Dunno,” said Harry, thinking hard. “He wants 
something mended . . . and he wants to reserve 
something in there. ... Could you see what he pointed 
at when he said ‘that one’?” 

“No, he was behind that cabinet — ” 

“You two stay here,” whispered Hermione. 

“What are you — ?” 

But Hermione had already ducked out from under the 
cloak. She checked her hair in the reflection in the 
glass, then marched into the shop, setting the bell 
tinkling again. Ron hastily fed the Extendable Ears 
back under the door and passed one of the strings to 
Harry. 

“Hello, horrible morning, isn’t it?” Hermione said 
brightly to Borgin, who did not answer, but cast her a 
suspicious look. Humming cheerily, Hermione strolled 
through the jumble of objects on display. 

“Is this necklace for sale?” she asked, pausing beside 
a glass-fronted case. 

“If you’ve got one and a half thousand Galleons,” said 
Mr. Borgin coldly. 

“Oh — er — no, I haven’t got quite that much,” said 
Hermione, walking on. “And ... what about this lovely 
— um — skull?” 

Page | 141 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Sixteen Galleons.” 



“So it’s for sale, then? It isn’t being ... kept for 
anyone?” 

Mr. Borgin squinted at her. Harry had the nasty 
feeling he knew exactly what Hermione was up to. 
Apparently Hermione felt she had been rumbled too 
because she suddenly threw caution to the winds. 

“The thing is, that — er — boy who was in here just 
now, Draco Malfoy, well, he’s a friend of mine, and I 
want to get him a birthday present, but if he’s already 
reserved anything, I obviously don’t want to get him 
the same thing, so ... um ...” 

It was a pretty lame story in Harry’s opinion, and 
apparently Borgin thought so too. 

“Out,” he said sharply. “Get out!” 

Hermione did not wait to be asked twice, but hurried 
to the door with Borgin at her heels. As the bell 
tinkled again, Borgin slammed the door behind her 
and put up the closed sign. 

“Ah well,” said Ron, throwing the cloak back over 
Hermione. “Worth a try, but you were a bit obvious — 



“Well, next time you can show me how it’s done, 
Master of Mystery!” she snapped. 

Ron and Hermione bickered all the way back to 
Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes, where they were forced to 
stop so that they could dodge undetected around a 
very anxious-looking Mrs. Weasley and Hagrid, who 
had clearly noticed their absence. Once in the shop, 
Harry whipped off the Invisibility Cloak, hid it in his 
Page | 142 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




bag, and joined in with the other two when they 
insisted, in answer to Mrs. Weasley’s accusations, 
that they had been in the back room all along, and 
that she could not have looked properly. 



Page | 143 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




7 




THE SLUG CLUB 

Harry spent a lot of the last week of the holidays 
pondering the meaning of Malfoy’s behavior in 
Knockturn Alley. What disturbed him most was the 
satisfied look on Malfoy’s face as he had left the shop. 
Nothing that made Malfoy look that happy could be 
good news. To his slight annoyance, however, neither 
Ron nor Hermione seemed quite as curious about 
Malfoy’s activities as he was; or at least, they seemed 
to get bored of discussing it after a few days. 

“Yes, I’ve already agreed it was fishy, Harry,” said 
Hermione a little impatiently. She was sitting on the 
windowsill in Fred and George’s room with her feet up 
on one of the cardboard boxes and had only 
grudgingly looked up from her new copy of Advanced 
Rune Translation. “But haven’t we agreed there could 
be a lot of explanations?” 

“Maybe he’s broken his Hand of Glory,” said Ron 
vaguely, as he attempted to straighten his 



Page | 144 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



broomstick’s bent tail twigs. “Remember that 
shriveled-up arm Malfoy had?” 

“But what about when he said, ‘Don’t forget to keep 
that one safe’?” asked Harry for the umpteenth time. 
“That sounded to me like Borgin’s got another one of 
the broken objects, and Malfoy wants both.” 

“You reckon?” said Ron, now trying to scrape some 
dirt off his broom handle. 

“Yeah, I do,” said Harry. When neither Ron nor 
Hermione answered, he said, “Malfoy’s father’s in 
Azkaban. Don’t you think Malfoy’d like revenge?” 

Ron looked up, blinking. 

“Malfoy, revenge? What can he do about it?” 

“That’s my point, I don’t know!” said Harry, 
frustrated. “But he’s up to something and I think we 
should take it seriously. His father’s a Death Eater 
and — ” 

Harry broke off, his eyes fixed on the window behind 
Hermione, his mouth open. A startling thought had 
just occurred to him. 

“Harry?” said Hermione in an anxious voice. “What’s 
wrong?” 

“Your scar’s not hurting again, is it?” asked Ron 
nervously. 

“He’s a Death Eater,” said Harry slowly. “He’s 
replaced his father as a Death Eater!” 



Page | 145 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




There was a silence; then Ron erupted in laughter. 
“Malfoy? He’s sixteen, Harry! You think You-Know- 
Who would let Malfoy join?” 

“It seems very unlikely, Harry,” said Hermione in a 
repressive sort of voice. “What makes you think — ?” 

“In Madam Malkin’s. She didn’t touch him, but he 
yelled and jerked his arm away from her when she 
went to roll up his sleeve. It was his left arm. He’s 
been branded with the Dark Mark.” 

Ron and Hermione looked at each other. 

“Well ...” said Ron, sounding thoroughly unconvinced. 

“I think he just wanted to get out of there, Harry,” 
said Hermione. 

“He showed Borgin something we couldn’t see,” Harry 
pressed on stubbornly. “Something that seriously 
scared Borgin. It was the Mark, I know it — he was 
showing Borgin who he was dealing with, you saw 
how seriously Borgin took him!” 

Ron and Hermione exchanged another look. 

“I’m not sure, Harry. ...” 

“Yeah, I still don’t reckon You-Know-Who would let 
Malfoy join. ...” 

Annoyed, but absolutely convinced he was right, 

Harry snatched up a pile of filthy Quidditch robes and 
left the room; Mrs. Weasley had been urging them for 
days not to leave their washing and packing until the 
last moment. On the landing he bumped into Ginny, 
who was returning to her room carrying a pile of 
freshly laundered clothes. 

Page | 146 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I wouldn’t go in the kitchen just now,” she warned 
him. “There’s a lot of Phlegm around.” 



“I’ll be careful not to slip in it.” Harry smiled. 

Sure enough, when he entered the kitchen it was to 
find Fleur sitting at the kitchen table, in full flow 
about plans for her wedding to Bill, while Mrs. 
Weasley kept watch over a pile of self-peeling sprouts, 
looking bad-tempered. 

“... Bill and I ’ave almost decided on only two 
bridesmaids, Ginny and Gabrielle will look very sweet 
togezzer. I am theenking of dressing zem in pale gold 
— pink would of course be ’orrible with Ginny’s ’air — 



“Ah, Harry!” said Mrs. Weasley loudly, cutting across 
Fleur’s monologue. “Good, I wanted to explain about 
the security arrangements for the journey to 
Hogwarts tomorrow. We’ve got Ministry cars again, 
and there will be Aurors waiting at the station — ” 

“Is Tonks going to be there?” asked Harry, handing 
over his Quidditch things. 

“No, I don’t think so, she’s been stationed somewhere 
else from what Arthur said.” 

“She has let ’erself go, zat Tonks,” Fleur mused, 
examining her own stunning reflection in the back of 
a teaspoon. “A big mistake if you ask — ” 

“Yes, thank you,” said Mrs. Weasley tartly, cutting 
across Fleur again. “You’d better get on, Harry, I want 
the trunks ready tonight, if possible, so we don’t have 
the usual last-minute scramble.” 



Page | 147 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




And in fact, their departure the following morning was 
smoother than usual. The Ministry cars glided up to 
the front of the Burrow to find them waiting, trunks 
packed; Hermione’s cat, Crookshanks, safely enclosed 
in his traveling basket; and Hedwig; Ron’s owl, 
Pigwidgeon; and Ginny’s new purple Pygmy Puff, 
Arnold, in cages. 

“Au revoir, ’Ariy,” said Fleur throatily, kissing him 
good-bye. Ron hurried forward, looking hopeful, but 
Ginny stuck out her foot and Ron fell, sprawling in 
the dust at Fleur’s feet. Furious, red-faced, and dirt- 
spattered, he hurried into the car without saying 
good-bye. 

There was no cheerful Hagrid waiting for them at 
King’s Cross Station. Instead, two grim-faced, 
bearded Aurors in dark Muggle suits moved forward 
the moment the cars stopped and, flanking the party, 
marched them into the station without speaking. 

“Quick, quick, through the barrier,” said Mrs. 

Weasley, who seemed a little flustered by this austere 
efficiency. “Harry had better go first, with — ” 

She looked inquiringly at one of the Aurors, who 
nodded briefly, seized Harry’s upper arm, and 
attempted to steer him toward the barrier between 
platforms nine and ten. 

“I can walk, thanks,” said Harry irritably, jerking his 
arm out of the Auror’s grip. He pushed his trolley 
directly at the solid barrier, ignoring his silent 
companion, and found himself, a second later, 
standing on platform nine and three-quarters, where 
the scarlet Hogwarts Express stood belching steam 
over the crowd. 



Page | 148 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione and the Weasleys joined him within 
seconds. Without waiting to consult his grim-faced 
Auror, Harry motioned to Ron and Hermione to follow 
him up the platform, looking for an empty 
compartment. 

“We can’t, Harry,” said Hermione, looking apologetic. 
“Ron and I’ve got to go to the prefects’ carriage first 
and then patrol the corridors for a bit.” 

“Oh yeah, I forgot,” said Harry. 

“You’d better get straight on the train, all of you, 
you’ve only got a few minutes to go,” said Mrs. 
Weasley, consulting her watch. “Well, have a lovely 
term, Ron. ...” 

“Mr. Weasley, can I have a quick word?” said Harry, 
making up his mind on the spur of the moment. 

“Of course,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked slightly 
surprised, but followed Harry out of earshot of the 
others nevertheless. 

Harry had thought it through carefully and come to 
the conclusion that, if he was to tell anyone, Mr. 
Weasley was the right person; firstly, because he 
worked at the Ministry and was therefore in the best 
position to make further investigations, and secondly, 
because he thought that there was not too much risk 
of Mr. Weasley exploding with anger. 

He could see Mrs. Weasley and the grim-faced Auror 
casting the pair of them suspicious looks as they 
moved away. 

“When we were in Diagon Alley,” Harry began, but Mr. 
Weasley forestalled him with a grimace. 



Page | 149 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Am I about to discover where you, Ron, and 
Hermione disappeared to while you were supposed to 
be in the back room of Fred and George’s shop?” 

“How did you — ?” 

“Harry, please. You’re talking to the man who raised 
Fred and George.” 

“Er ... yeah, all right, we weren’t in the back room.” 

“Very well, then, let’s hear the worst.” 

“Well, we followed Draco Malfoy. We used my 
Invisibility Cloak.” 

“Did you have any particular reason for doing so, or 
was it a mere whim?” 

“Because I thought Malfoy was up to something,” said 
Harry, disregarding Mr. Weasley’s look of mingled 
exasperation and amusement. “He’d given his mother 
the slip and I wanted to know why.” 

“Of course you did,” said Mr. Weasley, sounding 
resigned. “Well? Did you find out why?” 

“He went into Borgin and Burkes,” said Harry, “and 
started bullying the bloke in there, Borgin, to help 
him fix something. And he said he wanted Borgin to 
keep something else for him. He made it sound like it 
was the same kind of thing that needed fixing. Like 
they were a pair. And ...” 

Harry took a deep breath. 

“There’s something else. We saw Malfoy jump about a 
mile when Madam Malkin tried to touch his left arm. I 



Page | 150 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




think he’s been branded with the Dark Mark. I think 
he’s replaced his father as a Death Eater.” 

Mr. Weasley looked taken aback. After a moment he 
said, “Harry, I doubt whether You-Know-Who would 
allow a sixteen-year-old — ” 

“Does anyone really know what You-Know-Who would 
or wouldn’t do?” asked Harry angrily. “Mr. Weasley, 
I’m sorry, but isn’t it worth investigating? If Malfoy 
wants something fixing, and he needs to threaten 
Borgin to get it done, it’s probably something Dark or 
dangerous, isn’t it?” 

“I doubt it, to be honest, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley 
slowly. “You see, when Lucius Malfoy was arrested, 
we raided his house. We took away everything that 
might have been dangerous.” 

“I think you missed something,” said Harry 
stubbornly. 

“Well, maybe,” said Mr. Weasley, but Harry could tell 
that Mr. Weasley was humoring him. 

There was a whistle behind them; nearly everyone 
had boarded the train and the doors were closing. 

“You’d better hurry,” said Mr. Weasley, as Mrs. 
Weasley cried, “Harry, quickly!” 

He hurried forward and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley helped 
him load his trunk onto the train. 

“Now, dear, you’re coming to us for Christmas, it’s all 
fixed with Dumbledore, so we’ll see you quite soon,” 
said Mrs. Weasley through the window, as Harry 
slammed the door shut behind him and the train 



Page | 151 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




began to move. “You make sure you look after 
yourself and — ” 



The train was gathering speed. 

“ — be good and — ” 

She was jogging to keep up now. 
stay safe!” 

Harry waved until the train had turned a corner and 
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were lost to view, then turned 
to see where the others had got to. He supposed Ron 
and Hermione were cloistered in the prefects’ 
carriage, but Ginny was a little way along the 
corridor, chatting to some friends. He made his way 
toward her, dragging his trunk. 

People stared shamelessly as he approached. They 
even pressed their faces against the windows of their 
compartments to get a look at him. He had expected 
an upswing in the amount of gaping and gawping he 
would have to endure this term after all the “Chosen 
One” rumors in the Daily Prophet, but he did not 
enjoy the sensation of standing in a very bright 
spotlight. He tapped Ginny on the shoulder. 

“Fancy trying to find a compartment?” 

“I can’t, Harry, I said I’d meet Dean,” said Ginny 
brightly. “See you later.” 

“Right,” said Harry. He felt a strange twinge of 
annoyance as she walked away, her long red hair 
dancing behind her; he had become so used to her 
presence over the summer that he had almost 
forgotten that Ginny did not hang around with him, 
Ron, and Hermione while at school. Then he blinked 
Page | 152 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




and looked around: He was surrounded by 
mesmerized girls. 

“Hi, Harry!” said a familiar voice from behind him. 

“Neville!” said Harry in relief, turning to see a round- 
faced boy struggling toward him. 

“Hello, Harry,” said a girl with long hair and large 
misty eyes, who was just behind Neville. 

“Luna, hi, how are you?” 

“Very well, thank you,” said Luna. She was clutching 
a magazine to her chest; large letters on the front 
announced that there was a pair of free Spectrespecs 
inside. 

“Quibbler still going strong, then?” asked Harry, who 
felt a certain fondness for the magazine, having given 
it an exclusive interview the previous year. 

“Oh yes, circulation’s well up,” said Luna happily. 

“Let’s find seats,” said Harry, and the three of them 
set off along the train through hordes of silently 
staring students. At last they found an empty 
compartment, and Harry hurried inside gratefully. 

“They’re even staring at us!” said Neville, indicating 
himself and Luna. “Because we’re with you!” 

“They’re staring at you because you were at the 
Ministry too,” said Harry, as he hoisted his trunk into 
the luggage rack. “Our little adventure there was all 
over the Daily Prophet, you must’ve seen it.” 

“Yes, I thought Gran would be angry about all the 
publicity,” said Neville, “but she was really pleased. 

Page | 153 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Says I’m starting to live up to my dad at long last. She 
bought me a new wand, look!” 



He pulled it out and showed it to Harry. 

“Cherry and unicorn hair,” he said proudly. “We think 
it was one of the last Ollivander ever sold, he 
vanished next day — oi, come back here, Trevor!” 

And he dived under the seat to retrieve his toad as it 
made one of its frequent bids for freedom. 

“Are we still doing D.A. meetings this year, Harry?” 
asked Luna, who was detaching a pair of psychedelic 
spectacles from the middle of The Quibbler. 

“No point now we’ve got rid of Umbridge, is there?” 
said Harry, sitting down. Neville bumped his head 
against the seat as he emerged from under it. He 
looked most disappointed. 

“I liked the D.A.! I learned loads with you!” 

“I enjoyed the meetings too,” said Luna serenely. “It 
was like having friends.” 

This was one of those uncomfortable things Luna 
often said and which made Harry feel a squirming 
mixture of pity and embarrassment. Before he could 
respond, however, there was a disturbance outside 
their compartment door; a group of fourth-year girls 
was whispering and giggling together on the other 
side of the glass. 

“You ask him!” 

“No, you!” 

“I’ll do it!” 

Page | 154 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




And one of them, a bold-looking girl with large dark 
eyes, a prominent chin, and long black hair pushed 
her way through the door. 

“Hi, Harry, I’m Romilda, Romilda Vane,” she said 
loudly and confidently. “Why don’t you join us in our 
compartment? You don’t have to sit with them,” she 
added in a stage whisper, indicating Neville’s bottom, 
which was sticking out from under the seat again as 
he groped around for Trevor, and Luna, who was now 
wearing her free Spectrespecs, which gave her the 
look of a demented, multicolored owl. 

“They’re friends of mine,” said Harry coldly. 

“Oh,” said the girl, looking very surprised. “Oh. 

Okay.” 

And she withdrew, sliding the door closed behind her. 

“People expect you to have cooler friends than us,” 
said Luna, once again displaying her knack for 
embarrassing honesty. 

“You are cool,” said Harry shortly. “None of them was 
at the Ministry. They didn’t fight with me.” 

“That’s a very nice thing to say,” beamed Luna. Then 
she pushed her Spectrespecs farther up her nose and 
settled down to read The Quibbler. 

“We didn’t face him, though,” said Neville, emerging 
from under the seat with fluff and dust in his hair 
and a resigned-looking Trevor in his hand. “You did. 
You should hear my gran talk about you. ‘That Harry 
Potter’s got more backbone than the whole Ministry of 
Magic put together*.’ She’d give anything to have you 
as a grandson. ...” 



Page | 155 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry laughed uncomfortably and changed the 
subject to O.W.L. results as soon as he could. While 
Neville recited his grades and wondered aloud 
whether he would be allowed to take a 
Transfiguration N.E.W.T. with only an “Acceptable,” 
Harry watched him without really listening. 

Neville’s childhood had been blighted by Voldemort 
just as much as Harry’s had, but Neville had no idea 
how close he had come to having Harry’s destiny. The 
prophecy could have referred to either of them, yet, 
for his own inscrutable reasons, Voldemort had 
chosen to believe that Harry was the one meant. 

Had Voldemort chosen Neville, it would be Neville 
sitting opposite Harry bearing the lightning-shaped 
scar and the weight of the prophecy. ... Or would it? 
Would Neville’s mother have died to save him, as Lily 
had died for Harry? Surely she would. ... But what if 
she had been unable to stand between her son and 
Voldemort? Would there then have been no “Chosen 
One” at all? An empty seat where Neville now sat and 
a scarless Harry who would have been kissed good- 
bye by his own mother, not Ron’s? 

“You all right, Harry? You look funny,” said Neville. 

Harry started. “Sorry — I — ” 

“Wrackspurt got you?” asked Luna sympathetically, 
peering at Harry through her enormous colored 
spectacles. 

“I — what?” 

“A Wrackspurt ... They’re invisible. They float in 
through your ears and make your brain go fuzzy,” she 
said. “I thought I felt one zooming around in here.” 



Page | 156 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




She flapped her hands at thin air, as though beating 
off large invisible moths. Harry and Neville caught 
each other’s eyes and hastily began to talk of 
Quidditch. 

The weather beyond the train windows was as patchy 
as it had been all summer; they passed through 
stretches of the chilling mist, then out into weak, 
clear sunlight. It was during one of the clear spells, 
when the sun was visible almost directly overhead, 
that Ron and Hermione entered the compartment at 
last. 

“Wish the lunch trolley would hurry up, I’m starving,” 
said Ron longingly, slumping into the seat beside 
Harry and rubbing his stomach. “Hi, Neville. Hi, 

Luna. Guess what?” he added, turning to Harry. 
“Malfoy’s not doing prefect duty. He’s just sitting in 
his compartment with the other Slytherins, we saw 
him when we passed.” 

Harry sat up straight, interested. It was not like 
Malfoy to pass up the chance to demonstrate his 
power as prefect, which he had happily abused all the 
previous year. 

“What did he do when he saw you?” 

“The usual,” said Ron indifferently, demonstrating a 
rude hand gesture. “Not like him, though, is it? Well 
— that is” — he did the hand gesture again — “but 
why isn’t he out there bullying first years? 

“Dunno,” said Harry, but his mind was racing. Didn’t 
this look as though Malfoy had more important things 
on his mind than bullying younger students? 



Page | 157 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Maybe he preferred the Inquisitorial Squad,” said 
Hermione. “Maybe being a prefect seems a bit tame 
after that.” 



“I don’t think so,” said Harry. “I think he’s — ” 

But before he could expound on his theory, the 
compartment door slid open again and a breathless 
third -year girl stepped inside. 

“I’m supposed to deliver these to Neville Longbottom 
and Harry P-Potter,” she faltered, as her eyes met 
Harry’s and she turned scarlet. She was holding out 
two scrolls of parchment tied with violet ribbon. 
Perplexed, Harry and Neville took the scroll addressed 
to each of them and the girl stumbled back out of the 
compartment. 

“What is it?” Ron demanded, as Harry unrolled his. 
“An invitation,” said Harry. 
