And then the thing beneath the hood, whatever it 
was, drew a long, slow, rattling breath, as though it 
were trying to suck something more than air from its 
surroundings. 

An intense cold swept over them all. Harry felt his 
own breath catch in his chest. The cold went deeper 



Page | 92 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




than his skin. It was inside his chest, it was inside 
his very heart. ... 



Harry’s eyes rolled up into his head. He couldn’t see. 
He was drowning in cold. There was a rushing in his 
ears as though of water. He was being dragged 
downward, the roaring growing louder . . . 

And then, from far away, he heard screaming, 
terrible, terrified, pleading screams. He wanted to 
help whoever it was, he tried to move his arms, but 
couldn’t ... a thick white fog was swirling around him, 
inside him — 

“Harry! Harry! Are you all right?” 

Someone was slapping his face. 

“W — what?” 

Harry opened his eyes; there were lanterns above 
him, and the floor was shaking — the Hogwarts 
Express was moving again and the lights had come 
back on. He seemed to have slid out of his seat onto 
the floor. Ron and Hermione were kneeling next to 
him, and above them he could see Neville and 
Professor Lupin watching. Harry felt very sick; when 
he put up his hand to push his glasses back on, he 
felt cold sweat on his face. 

Ron and Hermione heaved him back onto his seat. 

“Are you okay?” Ron asked nervously. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, looking quickly toward the door. 
The hooded creature had vanished. “What happened? 
Where’s that — that thing? Who screamed?” 

“No one screamed,” said Ron, more nervously still. 

Page | 93 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked around the bright compartment. Ginny 
and Neville looked back at him, both very pale. 

“But I heard screaming — ” 

A loud snap made them all jump. Professor Lupin was 
breaking an enormous slab of chocolate into pieces. 

“Here,” he said to Harry, handing him a particularly 
large piece. “Eat it. It’ll help.” 

Harry took the chocolate but didn’t eat it. 

“What was that thing?” he asked Lupin. 

“A dementor,” said Lupin, who was now giving 
chocolate to everyone else. “One of the dementors of 
Azkaban.” 

Everyone stared at him. Professor Lupin crumpled up 
the empty chocolate wrapper and put it in his pocket. 

“Eat,” he repeated. “It’ll help. I need to speak to the 
driver, excuse me ...” 

He strolled past Harry and disappeared into the 
corridor. 

“Are you sure you’re okay, Harry?” said Hermione, 
watching Harry anxiously. 

“I don’t get it. ... What happened?” said Harry, wiping 
more sweat off his face. 

“Well — that thing — the dementor — stood there and 
looked around (I mean, I think it did, I couldn’t see its 
face) — and you — you — ” 



Page | 94 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I thought you were having a fit or something,” said 
Ron, who still looked scared. “You went sort of rigid 
and fell out of your seat and started twitching — ” 

“And Professor Lupin stepped over you, and walked 
toward the dementor, and pulled out his wand,” said 
Hermione, “and he said, ‘None of us is hiding Sirius 
Black under our cloaks. Go.’ But the dementor didn’t 
move, so Lupin muttered something, and a silvery 
thing shot out of his wand at it, and it turned around 
and sort of glided away. ...” 

“It was horrible,” said Neville, in a higher voice than 
usual. “Did you feel how cold it got when it came in?” 

“I felt weird,” said Ron, shifting his shoulders 
uncomfortably. “Like I’d never be cheerful again. ...” 

Ginny, who was huddled in her corner looking nearly 
as bad as Harry felt, gave a small sob; Hermione went 
over and put a comforting arm around her. 

“But didn’t any of you — fall off your seats?” said 
Harry awkwardly. 

“No,” said Ron, looking anxiously at Harry again. 
“Ginny was shaking like mad, though. ...” 

Harry didn’t understand. He felt weak and shivery, as 
though he were recovering from a bad bout of flu; he 
also felt the beginnings of shame. Why had he gone to 
pieces like that, when no one else had? 

Professor Lupin had come back. He paused as he 
entered, looked around, and said, with a small smile, 
“I haven’t poisoned that chocolate, you know. ...” 



Page | 95 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry took a bite and to his great surprise felt 
warmth spread suddenly to the tips of his fingers and 
toes. 

“Well be at Hogwarts in ten minutes,” said Professor 
Lupin. “Are you all right, Harry?” 

Harry didn’t ask how Professor Lupin knew his name. 

“Fine,” he muttered, embarrassed. 

They didn’t talk much during the remainder of the 
journey. At long last, the train stopped at Hogsmeade 
station, and there was a great scramble to get 
outside; owls hooted, cats meowed, and Neville’s pet 
toad croaked loudly from under his hat. It was 
freezing on the tiny platform; rain was driving down 
in icy sheets. 

“Firs’ years this way!” called a familiar voice. Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione turned and saw the gigantic 
outline of Hagrid at the other end of the platform, 
beckoning the terrified-looking new students forward 
for their traditional journey across the lake. 

“All righ’, you three?” Hagrid yelled over the heads of 
the crowd. They waved at him, but had no chance to 
speak to him because the mass of people around 
them was shunting them away along the platform. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed the rest of the 
school along the platform and out onto a rough mud 
track, where at least a hundred stagecoaches awaited 
the remaining students, each pulled, Harry could only 
assume, by an invisible horse, because when they 
climbed inside and shut the door, the coach set off all 
by itself, bumping and swaying in procession. 

The coach smelled faintly of mold and straw. Harry 
felt better since the chocolate, but still weak. Ron and 

Page | 96 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione kept looking at him sideways, as though 
frightened he might collapse again. 

As the carriage trundled toward a pair of magnificent 
wrought iron gates, flanked with stone columns 
topped with winged boars, Harry saw two more 
towering, hooded dementors, standing guard on 
either side. A wave of cold sickness threatened to 
engulf him again; he leaned back into the lumpy seat 
and closed his eyes until they had passed the gates. 
The carriage picked up speed on the long, sloping 
drive up to the castle; Hermione was leaning out of 
the tiny window, watching the many turrets and 
towers draw nearer. At last, the carriage swayed to a 
halt, and Hermione and Ron got out. 

As Harry stepped down, a drawling, delighted voice 
sounded in his ear. 

“You fainted, Potter? Is Longbottom telling the truth? 
You actually fainted?” 

Malfoy elbowed past Hermione to block Harry’s way 
up the stone steps to the castle, his face gleeful and 
his pale eyes glinting maliciously. 

“Shove off, Malfoy,” said Ron, whose jaw was 
clenched. 

“Did you faint as well, Weasley?” said Malfoy loudly. 
“Did the scary old dementor frighten you too, 
Weasley?” 

“Is there a problem?” said a mild voice. Professor 
Lupin had just gotten out of the next carriage. 

Malfoy gave Professor Lupin an insolent stare, which 
took in the patches on his robes and the delapidated 
suitcase. With a tiny hint of sarcasm in his voice, he 

Page | 97 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




said, “Oh, no — er — Professor,” then he smirked at 
Crabbe and Goyle and led them up the steps into the 
castle. 

Hermione prodded Ron in the back to make him 
hurry, and the three of them joined the crowd 
swarming up the steps, through the giant oak front 
doors, into the cavernous entrance hall, which was lit 
with flaming torches, and housed a magnificent 
marble staircase that led to the upper floors. 

The door into the Great Hall stood open at the right; 
Harry followed the crowd toward it, but had barely 
glimpsed the enchanted ceiling, which was black and 
cloudy tonight, when a voice called, “Potter! Granger! 

I want to see you both!” 

Harry and Hermione turned around, surprised. 
Professor McGonagall, Transfiguration teacher and 
head of Gryffindor House, was calling over the heads 
of the crowd. She was a stern-looking witch who wore 
her hair in a tight bun; her sharp eyes were framed 
with square spectacles. Harry fought his way over to 
her with a feeling of foreboding: Professor McGonagall 
had a way of making him feel he must have done 
something wrong. 

“There’s no need to look so worried — I just want a 
word in my office,” she told them. “Move along there, 
Weasley.” 

Ron stared as Professor McGonagall ushered 
Harry and Hermione away from the chattering crowd; 
they accompanied her across the entrance hall, up 
the marble staircase, and along a corridor. 

Once they were in her office, a small room with a 
large, welcoming fire, Professor McGonagall motioned 
Harry and Hermione to sit down. She settled herself 

Page | 98 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




behind her desk and said abruptly, “Professor Lupin 
sent an owl ahead to say that you were taken ill on 
the train, Potter.” 

Before Harry could reply, there was a soft knock on 
the door and Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, came 
bustling in. 

Harry felt himself going red in the face. It was bad 
enough that he’d passed out, or whatever he had 
done, without everyone making all this fuss. 

“I’m fine,” he said, “I don’t need anything — ” 

“Oh, it’s you, is it?” said Madam Pomfrey, ignoring 
this and bending down to stare closely at him. “I 
suppose you’ve been doing something dangerous 
again?” 

“It was a dementor, Poppy,” said Professor 
McGonagall. 

They exchanged a dark look, and Madam Pomfrey 
clucked disapprovingly. 

“Setting dementors around a school,” she muttered, 
pushing back Harry’s hair and feeling his forehead. 
“He won’t be the last one who collapses. Yes, he’s all 
clammy. Terrible things, they are, and the effect they 
have on people who are already delicate — ” 

“I’m not delicate!” said Harry crossly. 

“Of course you’re not,” said Madam Pomfrey 
absentmindedly, now taking his pulse. 

“What does he need?” said Professor McGonagall 
crisply. “Bed rest? Should he perhaps spend tonight 
in the hospital wing?” 

Page | 99 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm /ine!” said Harry, jumping up. The thought of 
what Draco Malfoy would say if he had to go to the 
hospital wing was torture. 

“Well, he should have some chocolate, at the very 
least,” said Madam Pomfrey, who was now trying to 
peer into Harry’s eyes. 

“I’ve already had some,” said Harry. “Professor Lupin 
gave me some. He gave it to all of us.” 

“Did he, now?” said Madam Pomfrey approvingly. “So 
we’ve finally got a Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher who knows his remedies?” 

“Are you sure you feel all right, Potter?” Professor 
McGonagall said sharply. 

“Yes,” said Harry. 

“Very well. Kindly wait outside while I have a quick 
word with Miss Granger about her course schedule, 
then we can go down to the feast together.” 

Harry went back into the corridor with Madam 
Pomfrey, who left for the hospital wing, muttering to 
herself. He had to wait only a few minutes; then 
Hermione emerged looking very happy about 
something, followed by Professor McGonagall, and the 
three of them made their way back down the marble 
staircase to the Great Hall. 

It was a sea of pointed black hats; each of the long 
House tables was lined with students, their faces 
glimmering by the light of thousands of candles, 
which were floating over the tables in midair. 

Professor Flitwick, who was a tiny little wizard with a 
shock of white hair, was carrying an ancient hat and 
a three-legged stool out of the hall. 

Page | 100 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh,” said Hermione softly, “we’ve missed the 
Sorting!” 

New students at Hogwarts were sorted into Houses by 
trying on the Sorting Hat, which shouted out the 
House they were best suited to (Gryffindor, 

Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff, or Slytherin). Professor 
McGonagall strode off toward her empty seat at the 
staff table, and Harry and Hermione set off in the 
other direction, as quietly as possible, toward the 
Gryffindor table. People looked around at them as 
they passed along the back of the hall, and a few of 
them pointed at Harry. Had the story of his collapsing 
in front of the dementor traveled that fast? 

He and Hermione sat down on either side of Ron, who 
had saved them seats. 

“What was all that about?” he muttered to Harry. 

Harry started to explain in a whisper, but at that 
moment the headmaster stood up to speak, and he 
broke off. 

Professor Dumbledore, though very old, always gave 
an impression of great energy. He had several feet of 
long silver hair and beard, half-moon spectacles, and 
an extremely crooked nose. He was often described as 
the greatest wizard of the age, but that wasn’t why 
Harry respected him. You couldn’t help trusting Albus 
Dumbledore, and as Harry watched him beaming 
around at the students, he felt really calm for the first 
time since the dementor had entered the train 
compartment. 

“Welcome!” said Dumbledore, the candlelight 
shimmering on his beard. “Welcome to another year 
at Hogwarts! I have a few things to say to you all, and 
as one of them is very serious, I think it best to get it 

Page | 101 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




out of the way before you become befuddled by our 
excellent feast. ...” 

Dumbledore cleared his throat and continued, “As 
you will all be aware after their search of the 
Hogwarts Express, our school is presently playing 
host to some of the dementors of Azkaban, who are 
here on Ministry of Magic business.” 

He paused, and Harry remembered what Mr. Weasley 
had said about Dumbledore not being happy with the 
dementors guarding the school. 

“They are stationed at every entrance to the grounds,” 
Dumbledore continued, “and while they are with us, I 
must make it plain that nobody is to leave school 
without permission. Dementors are not to be fooled 
by tricks or disguises — or even Invisibility Cloaks,” 
he added blandly, and Harry and Ron glanced at each 
other. “It is not in the nature of a dementor to 
understand pleading or excuses. I therefore warn 
each and every one of you to give them no reason to 
harm you. I look to the prefects, and our new Head 
Boy and Girl, to make sure that no student runs afoul 
of the dementors,” he said. 

Percy, who was sitting a few seats down from Harry, 
puffed out his chest again and stared around 
impressively. Dumbledore paused again; he looked 
very seriously around the hall, and nobody moved or 
made a sound. 

“On a happier note,” he continued, “I am pleased to 
welcome two new teachers to our ranks this year. 

“First, Professor Lupin, who has kindly consented to 
fill the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher.” 



Page | 102 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




There was some scattered, rather unenthusiastic 
applause. Only those who had been in the 
compartment on the train with Professor Lupin 
clapped hard, Harry among them. Professor Lupin 
looked particularly shabby next to all the other 
teachers in their best robes. 

“Look at Snape!” Ron hissed in Harry’s ear. 

Professor Snape, the Potions master, was staring 
along the staff table at Professor Lupin. It was 
common knowledge that Snape wanted the Defense 
Against the Dark Arts job, but even Harry, who hated 
Snape, was startled at the expression twisting his 
thin, sallow face. It was beyond anger: it was loathing. 
Harry knew that expression only too well; it was the 
look Snape wore every time he set eyes on Harry. 

“As to our second new appointment,” Dumbledore 
continued as the lukewarm applause for Professor 
Lupin died away. “Well, I am sorry to tell you that 
Professor Kettleburn, our Care of Magical Creatures 
teacher, retired at the end of last year in order to 
enjoy more time with his remaining limbs. However, I 
am delighted to say that his place will be filled by 
none other than Rubeus Hagrid, who has agreed to 
take on this teaching job in addition to his 
gamekeeping duties.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione stared at one another, 
stunned. Then they joined in with the applause, 
which was tumultuous at the Gryffindor table in 
particular. Harry leaned forward to see Hagrid, who 
was ruby-red in the face and staring down at his 
enormous hands, his wide grin hidden in the tangle of 
his black beard. 



Page | 103 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“We should’ve known!” Ron roared, pounding the 
table. “Who else would have assigned us a biting 
book?” 



Harry, Ron, and Hermione were the last to stop 
clapping, and as Professor Dumbledore started 
speaking again, they saw that Hagrid was wiping his 
eyes on the tablecloth. 

“Well, I think that’s everything of importance,” said 
Dumbledore. “Let the feast begin!” 

The golden plates and goblets before them filled 
suddenly with food and drink. Harry, suddenly 
ravenous, helped himself to everything he could reach 
and began to eat. 

It was a delicious feast; the hall echoed with talk, 
laughter, and the clatter of knives and forks. Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione, however, were eager for it to 
finish so that they could talk to Hagrid. They knew 
how much being made a teacher would mean to him. 
Hagrid wasn’t a fully qualified wizard; he had been 
expelled from Hogwarts in his third year for a crime 
he had not committed. It had been Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione who had cleared Hagrid ’s name last year. 

At long last, when the last morsels of pumpkin tart 
had melted from the golden platters, Dumbledore 
gave the word that it was time for them all to go to 
bed, and they got their chance. 

“Congratulations, Hagrid!” Hermione squealed as they 
reached the teachers’ table. 

“All down ter you three,” said Hagrid, wiping his 
shining face on his napkin as he looked up at them. 
“Can’ believe it ... great man, Dumbledore ... came 
straight down to me hut after Professor Kettleburn 

Page | 104 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




said he’d had enough. ... It’s what I always wanted. 



Overcome with emotion, he buried his face in his 
napkin, and Professor McGonagall shooed them away. 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione joined the Gryffindors 
streaming up the marble staircase and, very tired 
now, along more corridors, up more and more stairs, 
to the hidden entrance to Gryffindor Tower. A large 
portrait of a fat lady in a pink dress asked them, 
“Password?” 

“Coming through, coming through!” Percy called from 
behind the crowd. “The new password’s ‘Fortuna 
Major’!” 

“Oh no,” said Neville Longbottom sadly. He always 
had trouble remembering the passwords. 

Through the portrait hole and across the common 
room, the girls and boys divided toward their separate 
staircases. Harry climbed the spiral stair with no 
thought in his head except how glad he was to be 
back. They reached their familiar, circular dormitory 
with its five four-poster beds, and Harry, looking 
around, felt he was home at last. 



Page | 105 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 







TALONS AND TEA LEAVES 

When Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the Great 
Hall for breakfast the next day, the first thing they 
saw was Draco Malfoy, who seemed to be entertaining 
a large group of Slytherins with a very funny story. As 
they passed, Malfoy did a ridiculous impression of a 
swooning fit and there was a roar of laughter. 

“Ignore him,” said Hermione, who was right behind 
Harry. “Just ignore him, it’s not worth it. ...” 

“Hey, Potter!” shrieked Pansy Parkinson, a Slytherin 
girl with a face like a pug. “Potter! The dementors are 
coming, Potter! Woooooooo!” 

Harry dropped into a seat at the Gryffindor table, next 
to George Weasley. 

“New third-year course schedules,” said George, 
passing them over. “What’s up with you, Harry?” 

“Malfoy,” said Ron, sitting down on George’s other 
side and glaring over at the Slytherin table. 

Page | 106 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



George looked up in time to see Malfoy pretending to 
faint with terror again. 

“That little git,” he said calmly. “He wasn’t so cocky 
last night when the dementors were down at our end 
of the train. Came running into our compartment, 
didn’t he, Fred?” 

“Nearly wet himself,” said Fred, with a contemptuous 
glance at Malfoy. 

“I wasn’t too happy myself,” said George. “They’re 
horrible things, those dementors. ...” 

“Sort of freeze your insides, don’t they?” said Fred. 

“You didn’t pass out, though, did you?” said Harry in 
a low voice. 

“Forget it, Harry,” said George bracingly. “Dad had to 
go out to Azkaban one time, remember, Fred? And he 
said it was the worst place he’d ever been, he came 
back all weak and shaking. . . . They suck the 
happiness out of a place, dementors. Most of the 
prisoners go mad in there.” 

“Anyway, we’ll see how happy Malfoy looks after our 
first Quidditch match,” said Fred. “Gryffindor versus 
Slytherin, first game of the season, remember?” 

The only time Harry and Malfoy had faced each other 
in a Quidditch match, Malfoy had definitely come off 
worse. Feeling slightly more cheerful, Harry helped 
himself to sausages and fried tomatoes. 

Hermione was examining her new schedule. 

“Ooh, good, we’re starting some new subjects today,” 
she said happily. 

Page | 107 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Hermione,” said Ron, frowning as he looked over her 
shoulder, “they’ve messed up your schedule. Look — 
they’ve got you down for about ten subjects a day. 
There isn’t enough time.” 

“I’ll manage. I’ve fixed it all with Professor 
McGonagall.” 

“But look,” said Ron, laughing, “see this morning? 
Nine o’clock, Divination. And underneath, nine 
o’clock, Muggle Studies. And” — Ron leaned closer to 
the schedule, disbelieving — “ look — underneath 
that, Arithmancy, nine o’clock. I mean, I know you’re 
good, Hermione, but no one’s that good. How’re you 
supposed to be in three classes at once?” 

“Don’t be silly,” said Hermione shortly. “Of course I 
won’t be in three classes at once.” 

“Well, then — ” 

“Pass the marmalade,” said Hermione. 

“But — ” 

“Oh, Ron, what’s it to you if my schedule’s a bit full?” 
Hermione snapped. “I told you, I’ve fixed it all with 
Professor McGonagall.” 

Just then, Hagrid entered the Great Hall. He was 
wearing his long moleskin overcoat and was 
absentmindedly swinging a dead polecat from one 
enormous hand. 

“All righ’?” he said eagerly, pausing on the way to the 
staff table. “Yer in my firs’ ever lesson! Right after 
lunch! Bin up since five gettin’ everythin’ ready. ... 
Hope it’s okay. ... Me, a teacher ... hones’ly. ...” 



Page | 108 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He grinned broadly at them and headed off to the 
staff table, still swinging the polecat. 

“Wonder what he’s been getting ready?” said Ron, a 
note of anxiety in his voice. 

The hall was starting to empty as people headed off 
toward their first lesson. Ron checked his course 
schedule. 

“We’d better go, look, Divination’s at the top of North 
Tower. It’ll take us ten minutes to get there. ...” 

They finished their breakfasts hastily, said good-bye 
to Fred and George, and walked back through the 
hall. As they passed the Slytherin table, Malfoy did 
yet another impression of a fainting fit. The shouts of 
laughter followed Harry into the entrance hall. 

The journey through the castle to North Tower was a 
long one. Two years at Hogwarts hadn’t taught them 
everything about the castle, and they had never been 
inside North Tower before. 

“There’s — got — to — be — a — shortcut,” Ron 
panted as they climbed their seventh long staircase 
and emerged on an unfamiliar landing, where there 
was nothing but a large painting of a bare stretch of 
grass hanging on the stone wall. 

“I think it’s this way,” said Hermione, peering down 
the empty passage to the right. 

“Can’t be,” said Ron. “That’s south, look, you can see 
a bit of the lake out of the window ...” 

Harry was watching the painting. A fat, dapple-gray 
pony had just ambled onto the grass and was grazing 
nonchalantly. Harry was used to the subjects of 

Page | 109 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hogwarts paintings moving around and leaving their 
frames to visit one another, but he always enjoyed 
watching it. A moment later, a short, squat knight in 
a suit of armor clanked into the picture after his 
pony. By the look of the grass stains on his metal 
knees, he had just fallen off. 

“Aha!” he yelled, seeing Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 
“What villains are these, that trespass upon my 
private lands! Come to scorn at my fall, perchance? 
Draw, you knaves, you dogs!” 

They watched in astonishment as the little knight 
tugged his sword out of its scabbard and began 
brandishing it violently, hopping up and down in 
rage. But the sword was too long for him; a 
particularly wild swing made him overbalance, and he 
landed facedown in the grass. 

“Are you all right?” said Harry, moving closer to the 
picture. 

“Get back, you scurvy braggart! Back, you rogue!” 

The knight seized his sword again and used it to push 
himself back up, but the blade sank deeply into the 
grass and, though he pulled with all his might, he 
couldn’t get it out again. Finally, he had to flop back 
down onto the grass and push up his visor to mop his 
sweating face. 

“Listen,” said Harry, taking advantage of the knight’s 
exhaustion, “we’re looking for the North Tower. You 
don’t know the way, do you?” 

“A quest!” The knight’s rage seemed to vanish 
instantly. He clanked to his feet and shouted, “Come 
follow me, dear friends, and we shall find our goal, or 
else shall perish bravely in the charge!” 

Page | 110 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He gave the sword another fruitless tug, tried and 
failed to mount the fat pony, gave up, and cried, “On 
foot then, good sirs and gentle lady! On! On!” 

And he ran, clanking loudly, into the left side of the 
frame and out of sight. 

They hurried after him along the corridor, following 
the sound of his armor. Every now and then they 
spotted him running through a picture ahead. 

“Be of stout heart, the worst is yet to come!” yelled the 
knight, and they saw him reappear in front of an 
alarmed group of women in crinolines, whose picture 
hung on the wall of a narrow spiral staircase. 

Puffing loudly, Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the 
tightly spiraling steps, getting dizzier and dizzier, 
until at last they heard the murmur of voices above 
them and knew they had reached the classroom. 

“Farewell!” cried the knight, popping his head into a 
painting of some sinister-looking monks. “Farewell, 
my comrades-in-arms! If ever you have need of noble 
heart and steely sinew, call upon Sir Cadogan!” 

“Yeah, well call you,” muttered Ron as the knight 
disappeared, “if we ever need someone mental.” 

They climbed the last few steps and emerged onto a 
tiny landing, where most of the class was already 
assembled. There were no doors off this landing, but 
Ron nudged Harry and pointed at the ceiling, where 
there was a circular trapdoor with a brass plaque on 
it. 

“ ‘Sibyll Trelawney, Divination teacher,’ ” Harry read. 
“How’re we supposed to get up there?” 



Page | 111 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




As though in answer to his question, the trapdoor 
suddenly opened, and a silvery ladder descended 
right at Harry’s feet. Everyone got quiet. 

“After you,” said Ron, grinning, so Harry climbed the 
ladder first. 

He emerged into the strangest-looking classroom he 
had ever seen. In fact, it didn’t look like a classroom 
at all, more like a cross between someone’s attic and 
an old-fashioned tea shop. At least twenty small, 
circular tables were crammed inside it, all 
surrounded by chintz armchairs and fat little poufs. 
Everything was lit with a dim, crimson light; the 
curtains at the windows were all closed, and the 
many lamps were draped with dark red scarves. It 
was stiflingly warm, and the fire that was burning 
under the crowded mantelpiece was giving off a 
heavy, sickly sort of perfume as it heated a large 
copper kettle. The shelves running around the 
circular walls were crammed with dusty-looking 
feathers, stubs of candles, many packs of tattered 
playing cards, countless silvery crystal balls, and a 
huge array of teacups. 

Ron appeared at Harry’s shoulder as the class 
assembled around them, all talking in whispers. 

“Where is she?” Ron said. 

A voice came suddenly out of the shadows, a soft, 
misty sort of voice. 

“Welcome,” it said. “How nice to see you in the 
physical world at last.” 

Harry’s immediate impression was of a large, 
glittering insect. Professor Trelawney moved into the 
firelight, and they saw that she was very thin; her 

Page | 112 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




large glasses magnified her eyes to several times their 
natural size, and she was draped in a gauzy spangled 
shawl. Innumerable chains and beads hung around 
her spindly neck, and her arms and hands were 
encrusted with bangles and rings. 

“Sit, my children, sit,” she said, and they all climbed 
awkwardly into armchairs or sank onto poufs. Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione sat themselves around the same 
round table. 

“Welcome to Divination,” said Professor Trelawney, 
who had seated herself in a winged armchair in front 
of the fire. “My name is Professor Trelawney. You may 
not have seen me before. I find that descending too 
often into the hustle and bustle of the main school 
clouds my Inner Eye.” 

Nobody said anything to this extraordinary 
pronouncement. Professor Trelawney delicately 
rearranged her shawl and continued, “So you have 
chosen to study Divination, the most difficult of all 
magical arts. I must warn you at the outset that if 
you do not have the Sight, there is very little I will be 
able to teach you. Books can take you only so far in 
this field. ...” 

At these words, both Harry and Ron glanced, 
grinning, at Hermione, who looked startled at the 
news that books wouldn’t be much help in this 
subject. 

“Many witches and wizards, talented though they are 
in the area of loud bangs and smells and sudden 
disappearings, are yet unable to penetrate the veiled 
mysteries of the future,” Professor Trelawney went on, 
her enormous, gleaming eyes moving from face to 
nervous face. “It is a Gift granted to few. You, boy,” 



Page | 113 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




she said suddenly to Neville, who almost toppled off 
his pouf. “Is your grandmother well?” 



“I think so,” said Neville tremulously. 

“I wouldn’t be so sure if I were you, dear,” said 
Professor Trelawney, the firelight glinting on her long 
emerald earrings. Neville gulped. Professor Trelawney 
continued placidly. “We will be covering the basic 
methods of Divination this year. The first term will be 
devoted to reading the tea leaves. Next term we shall 
progress to palmistry. By the way, my dear,” she shot 
suddenly at Parvati Patil, “beware a red-haired man.” 

Parvati gave a startled look at Ron, who was right 
behind her, and edged her chair away from him. 

“In the second term,” Professor Trelawney went on, 

“we shall progress to the crystal ball — if we have 
finished with fire omens, that is. Unfortunately, 
classes will be disrupted in February by a nasty bout 
of flu. I myself will lose my voice. And around Easter, 
one of our number will leave us forever.” 

A very tense silence followed this pronouncement, but 
Professor Trelawney seemed unaware of it. 

“I wonder, dear,” she said to Lavender Brown, who 
was nearest and shrank back in her chair, “if you 
could pass me the largest silver teapot?” 

Lavender, looking relieved, stood up, took an 
enormous teapot from the shelf, and put it down on 
the table in front of Professor Trelawney. 

“Thank you, my dear. Incidentally, that thing you are 
dreading — it will happen on Friday the sixteenth of 
October.” 

Page | 114 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Lavender trembled. 



“Now, I want you all to divide into pairs. Collect a 
teacup from the shelf, come to me, and I will fill it. 
Then sit down and drink, drink until only the dregs 
