None of them spoke as they changed into their scarlet 
robes. Harry wondered if they were feeling like he 
was: as though he’d eaten something extremely 
wriggly for breakfast. In what seemed like no time at 
all, Wood was saying, “Okay, it’s time, let’s go — ” 

They walked out onto the field to a tidal wave of noise. 
Three-quarters of the crowd was wearing scarlet 
rosettes, waving scarlet flags with the Gryffindor lion 
upon them, or brandishing banners with slogans like 
“GO GRYFFINDOR!” and “LIONS FOR THE CUP!” 
Behind the Slytherin goal posts, however, two 
hundred people were wearing green; the silver serpent 
of Slytherin glittered on their flags, and Professor 
Snape sat in the very front row, wearing green like 
everyone else, and a very grim smile. 

“And here are the Gryffindors!” yelled Lee Jordan, 
who was acting as commentator as usual. “Potter, 

Bell, Johnson, Spinnet, Weasley, Weasley, and Wood. 
Widely acknowledged as the best team Hogwarts has 
seen in a good few years — ” 

Lee’s comments were drowned by a tide of “boos” from 
the Slytherin end. 

“And here come the Slytherin team, led by Captain 
Flint. He’s made some changes in the lineup and 
seems to be going for size rather than skill — ” 

More boos from the Slytherin crowd. Harry, however, 
thought Lee had a point. Malfoy was easily the 

Page | 340 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




smallest person on the Slytherin team; the rest of 
them were enormous. 



“Captains, shake hands!” said Madam Hooch. 

Flint and Wood approached each other and grasped 
each other’s hand very tightly; it looked as though 
each was trying to break the other’s fingers. 

“Mount your brooms!” said Madam Hooch. “Three ... 
two ... one ...” 

The sound of her whistle was lost in the roar from the 
crowd as fourteen brooms rose into the air. Harry felt 
his hair fly back off his forehead; his nerves left him 
in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw 
Malfoy on his tail, and sped off in search of the 
Snitch. 

“And it’s Gryffindor in possession, Alicia Spinnet of 
Gryffindor with the Quaffle, heading straight for the 
Slytherin goal posts, looking good, Alicia! Argh, no — 
Quaffle intercepted by Warrington, Warrington of 
Slytherin tearing up the field — WHAM! — nice 
Bludger work there by George Weasley, Warrington 
drops the Quaffle, it’s caught by — Johnson, 
Gryffindor back in possession, come on, Angelina — 
nice swerve around Montague — duck, Angelina, 
that’s a Bludger] — SHE SCORES! TEN-ZERO TO 
GRYFFINDOR!” 

Angelina punched the air as she soared around the 
end of the field; the sea of scarlet below was 
screaming its delight — 

“OUCH!” 

Angelina was nearly thrown from her broom as 
Marcus Flint went smashing into her. 

Page | 341 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sorry!” said Flint as the crowd below booed. “Sorry, 
didn’t see her!” 

A moment later, Fred Weasley chucked his Beater’s 
club at the back of Flint’s head. Flint’s nose smashed 
into the handle of his broom and began to bleed. 

“That will do!” shrieked Madam Hooch, zooming 
between them. “Penalty shot to Gryffindor for an 
unprovoked attack on their Chaser! Penalty shot to 
Slytherin for deliberate damage to their Chaser!” 

“Come off it, Miss!” howled Fred, but Madam Hooch 
blew her whistle and Alicia flew forward to take the 
penalty. 

“Come on, Alicia!” yelled Lee into the silence that had 
descended on the crowd. “YES! SHE’S BEATEN THE 
KEEPER! TWENTY-ZERO TO GRYFFINDOR!” 

Harry turned the Firebolt sharply to watch Flint, still 
bleeding freely, fly forward to take the Slytherin 
penalty. Wood was hovering in front of the Gryffindor 
goal posts, his jaw clenched. 

“ ’Course, Wood’s a superb Keeper!” Lee Jordan told 
the crowd as Flint waited for Madam Hooch’s whistle. 
“Superb! Very difficult to pass — very difficult indeed 

— YES! I DONT BELIEVE IT! HE’S SAVED IT!” 

Relieved, Harry zoomed away, gazing around for the 
Snitch, but still making sure he caught every word of 
Lee’s commentary. It was essential that he hold 
Malfoy off the Snitch until Gryffindor was more than 
fifty points up — 

“Gryffindor in possession, no, Slytherin in possession 

— no! — Gryffindor back in possession and it’s Katie 



Page | 342 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Bell, Katie Bell for Gryffindor with the Quaffle, she’s 
streaking up the field — THAT WAS DELIBERATE!” 



Montague, a Slytherin Chaser, had swerved in front of 
Katie, and instead of seizing the Quaffle had grabbed 
her head. Katie cartwheeled in the air, managed to 
stay on her broom, but dropped the Quaffle. 

Madam Hooch’s whistle rang out again as she soared 
over to Montague and began shouting at him. A 
minute later, Katie had put another penalty past the 
Slytherin Seeker. 

“THIRTY-ZERO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEATING 



“Jordan, if you can’t commentate in an unbiased way 

— !” 

“I’m telling it like it is, Professor!” 

Harry felt a huge jolt of excitement. He had seen the 
Snitch — it was shimmering at the foot of one of the 
Gryffindor goal posts — but he mustn’t catch it yet — 
and if Malfoy saw it — 

Faking a look of sudden concentration, Harry pulled 
his Firebolt around and sped off toward the Slytherin 
end — it worked. Malfoy went haring after him, 
clearly thinking Harry had seen the Snitch there. ... 

WHOOSH. 

One of the Bludgers came streaking past Harry’s right 
ear, hit by the gigantic Slytherin Beater, Derrick. 

Then again — 

WHOOSH. 

Page | 343 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The second Bludger grazed Harry’s elbow. The other 
Beater, Bole, was closing in. 

Harry had a fleeting glimpse of Bole and Derrick 
zooming toward him, clubs raised — 

He turned the Firebolt upward at the last second, and 
Bole and Derrick collided with a sickening crunch. 

“Ha haaa!” yelled Lee Jordan as the Slytherin Beaters 
lurched away from each other, clutching their heads. 
“Too bad, boys! You’ll need to get up earlier than that 
to beat a Firebolt! And it’s Gryffindor in possession 
again, as Johnson takes the Quaffle — Flint alongside 
her — poke him in the eye, Angelina! — it was a joke, 
Professor, it was a joke — oh no — Flint in 
possession, Flint flying toward the Gryffindor goal 
posts, come on now, Wood, save — !” 

But Flint had scored; there was an eruption of cheers 
from the Slytherin end, and Lee swore so badly that 
Professor McGonagall tried to tug the magical 
megaphone away from him. 

“Sorry, Professor, sorry! Won’t happen again! So, 
Gryffindor in the lead, thirty points to ten, and 
Gryffindor in possession — ” 

It was turning into the dirtiest game Harry had ever 
played in. Enraged that Gryffindor had taken such an 
early lead, the Slytherins were rapidly resorting to any 
means to take the Quaffle. Bole hit Alicia with his 
club and tried to say he’d thought she was a Bludger. 
George Weasley elbowed Bole in the face in 
retaliation. Madam Hooch awarded both teams 
penalties, and Wood pulled off another spectacular 
save, making the score forty-ten to Gryffindor. 



Page | 344 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The Snitch had disappeared again. Malfoy was still 
keeping close to Harry as he soared over the match, 
looking around for it — once Gryffindor was fifty 
points ahead — 

Katie scored. Fifty-ten. Fred and George Weasley were 
swooping around her, clubs raised, in case any of the 
Slytherins were thinking of revenge. Bole and Derrick 
took advantage of Fred’s and George’s absence to aim 
both Bludgers at Wood; they caught him in the 
stomach, one after the other, and he rolled over in the 
air, clutching his broom, completely winded. 

Madam Hooch was beside herself. 

“YOU DO NOT ATTACK THE KEEPER UNLESS THE 
QUAFFLE IS WITHIN THE SCORING AREA!” she 
shrieked at Bole and Derrick. “Gryffindor penalty!” 

And Angelina scored. Sixty-ten. Moments later, Fred 
Weasley pelted a Bludger at Warrington, knocking the 
Quaffle out of his hands; Alicia seized it and put it 
through the Slytherin goal — seventy-ten. 

The Gryffindor crowd below was screaming itself 
hoarse — Gryffindor was sixty points in the lead, and 
if Harry caught the Snitch now, the Cup was theirs. 
Harry could almost feel hundreds of eyes following 
him as he soared around the field, high above the rest 
of the game, with Malfoy speeding along behind him. 

And then he saw it. The Snitch was sparkling twenty 
feet above him. 

Harry put on a huge burst of speed; the wind was 
roaring in his ears; he stretched out his hand, but 
suddenly, the Firebolt was slowing down — 



Page | 345 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Horrified, he looked around. Malfoy had thrown 
himself forward, grabbed hold of the Firebolt’s tail, 
and was pulling it back. 

“You — ” 

Harry was angry enough to hit Malfoy, but couldn’t 
reach — Malfoy was panting with the effort of holding 
onto the Firebolt, but his eyes were sparkling 
maliciously. He had achieved what he’d wanted to do 
— the Snitch had disappeared again. 

“Penalty! Penalty to Gryffindor! I’ve never seen such 
tactics!” Madam Hooch screeched, shooting up to 
where Malfoy was sliding back onto his Nimbus Two 
Thousand and One. 

“YOU CHEATING SCUM!” Lee Jordan was howling 
into the megaphone, dancing out of Professor 
McGonagall’s reach. “YOU FILTHY, CHEATING B — ” 

Professor McGonagall didn’t even bother to tell him 
off. She was actually shaking her finger in Malfoy’s 
direction, her hat had fallen off, and she too was 
shouting furiously. 

Alicia took Gryffindor’s penalty, but she was so angry 
she missed by several feet. The Gryffindor team was 
losing concentration and the Slytherins, delighted by 
Malfoy’s foul on Harry, were being spurred on to 
greater heights. 

“Slytherin in possession, Slytherin heading for goal — 
Montague scores — ” Lee groaned. “Seventy-twenty to 
Gryffindor. ...” 

Harry was now marking Malfoy so closely their knees 
kept hitting each other. Harry wasn’t going to let 
Malfoy anywhere near the Snitch. ... 

Page | 346 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Get out of it, Potter!” Malfoy yelled in frustration as 
he tried to turn and found Harry blocking him. 

“Angelina Johnson gets the Quaffle for Gryffindor, 
come on, Angelina, COME ON!” 

Harry looked around. Every single Slytherin player 
apart from Malfoy was streaking up the pitch toward 
Angelina, including the Slytherin Keeper — they were 
all going to block her — 

Harry wheeled the Firebolt around, bent so low he 
was lying flat along the handle, and kicked it forward. 
Like a bullet, he shot toward the Slytherins. 

“AAAAAAARRRGH ! ” 

They scattered as the Firebolt zoomed toward them; 
Angelina’s way was clear. 

“SHE SCORES! SHE SCORES! Gryffindor leads by 
eighty points to twenty!” 

Harry, who had almost pelted headlong into the 
stands, skidded to a halt in midair, reversed, and 
zoomed back into the middle of the field. 

And then he saw something to make his heart stand 
still. Malfoy was diving, a look of triumph on his face 
— there, a few feet above the grass below, was a tiny, 
golden glimmer — 

Harry urged the Firebolt downward, but Malfoy was 
miles ahead — 

“Go! Go! Go!” Harry urged his broom. He was gaining 
on Malfoy — Harry flattened himself to the broom 
handle as Bole sent a Bludger at him — he was at 
Malfoy’s ankles — he was level — 

Page | 347 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry threw himself forward, took both hands off his 
broom. He knocked Malfoy’s arm out of the way and 



“YES!” 

He pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the 
stadium exploded. Harry soared above the crowd, an 
odd ringing in his ears. The tiny golden ball was held 
tight in his fist, beating its wings hopelessly against 
his fingers. 

Then Wood was speeding toward him, half-blinded by 
tears; he seized Harry around the neck and sobbed 
unrestrainedly into his shoulder. Harry felt two large 
thumps as Fred and George hit them; then 
Angelina’s, Alicia’s, and Katie’s voices, “We’ve won the 
Cup\ We’ve won the Cup\” Tangled together in a 
many-armed hug, the Gryffindor team sank, yelling 
hoarsely, back to earth. 

Wave upon wave of crimson supporters was pouring 
over the barriers onto the field. Hands were raining 
down on their backs. Harry had a confused 
impression of noise and bodies pressing in on him. 
Then he, and the rest of the team, were hoisted onto 
the shoulders of the crowd. Thrust into the light, he 
saw Hagrid, plastered with crimson rosettes — “Yeh 
beat ’em, Harry, yeh beat ’em! Wait till I tell 
Buckbeak!” There was Percy, jumping up and down 
like a maniac, all dignity forgotten. Professor 
McGonagall was sobbing harder even than Wood, 
wiping her eyes with an enormous Gryffindor flag; 
and there, fighting their way toward Harry, were Ron 
and Hermione. Words failed them. They simply 
beamed as Harry was borne toward the stands, where 
Dumbledore stood waiting with the enormous 
Quidditch Cup. 



Page | 348 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




If only there had been a dementor around. ... As a 
sobbing Wood passed Harry the Cup, as he lifted it 
into the air, Harry felt he could have produced the 
world’s best Patronus. 



Page | 349 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY’S 
PREDICTION 

Harry’s euphoria at finally winning the Quidditch Cup 
lasted at least a week. Even the weather seemed to be 
celebrating; as June approached, the days became 
cloudless and sultry, and all anybody felt like doing 
was strolling onto the grounds and flopping down on 
the grass with several pints of iced pumpkin juice, 
perhaps playing a casual game of Gobstones or 
watching the giant squid propel itself dreamily across 
the surface of the lake. 

But they couldn’t. Exams were nearly upon them, and 
instead of lazing around outside, the students were 
forced to remain inside the castle, trying to bully their 
brains into concentrating while enticing wafts of 
summer air drifted in through the windows. Even 
Fred and George Weasley had been spotted working; 
they were about to take their O.W.L.s (Ordinary 
Wizarding Levels). Percy was getting ready to take his 
N.E.W.T.s (Nastily Exhausting Wizarding Tests), the 
highest qualification Hogwarts offered. As Percy 

Page | 350 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



hoped to enter the Ministry of Magic, he needed top 
grades. He was becoming increasingly edgy, and gave 
very severe punishments to anybody who disturbed 
the quiet of the common room in the evenings. In fact, 
the only person who seemed more anxious than Percy 
was Hermione. 

Harry and Ron had given up asking her how she was 
managing to attend several classes at once, but they 
couldn’t restrain themselves when they saw the exam 
schedule she had drawn up for herself. The first 
column read: 

Monday 

9 o’clock, Arithmancy 
9 o’clock, Transfiguration 
Lunch 

1 o’clock, Charms 
1 o’clock, Ancient Runes 

“Hermione?” Ron said cautiously, because she was 
liable to explode when interrupted these days. “Er — 
are you sure you’ve copied down these times right?” 

“What?” snapped Hermione, picking up the exam 
schedule and examining it. “Yes, of course I have.” 

“Is there any point asking how you’re going to sit for 
two exams at once?” said Harry. 

“No,” said Hermione shortly. “Have either of you seen 
my copy of Numerology and Gramatica?” 



Page | 351 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, yeah, I borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading,” 
said Ron, but very quietly. Hermione started shifting 
heaps of parchment around on her table, looking for 
the book. Just then, there was a rustle at the window 
and Hedwig fluttered through it, a note clutched tight 
in her beak. 

“It’s from Hagrid,” said Harry, ripping the note open. 
“Buckbeak’s appeal — it’s set for the sixth.” 

“That’s the day we finish our exams,” said Hermione, 
still looking everywhere for her Arithmancy book. 

“And they’re coming up here to do it,” said Harry, still 
reading from the letter. “Someone from the Ministry of 
Magic and — and an executioner.” 

Hermione looked up, startled. 

“They’re bringing the executioner to the appeal! But 
that sounds as though they’ve already decided!” 

“Yeah, it does,” said Harry slowly. 

“They can’t!” Ron howled. “I’ve spent ages reading up 
on stuff for him; they can’t just ignore it all!” 

But Harry had a horrible feeling that the Committee 
for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures had had its 
mind made up for it by Mr. Malfoy. Draco, who had 
been noticeably subdued since Gryffindor’s triumph 
in the Quidditch final, seemed to regain some of his 
old swagger over the next few days. From sneering 
comments Harry overheard, Malfoy was certain 
Buckbeak was going to be killed, and seemed 
thoroughly pleased with himself for bringing it about. 
It was all Harry could do to stop himself imitating 
Hermione and hitting Malfoy in the face on these 
occasions. And the worst thing of all was that they 
Page | 352 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




had no time or opportunity to go and see Hagrid, 
because the strict new security measures had not 
been lifted, and Harry didn’t dare retrieve his 
Invisibility Cloak from below the one-eyed witch. 

k k k 



Exam week began and an unnatural hush fell over 
the castle. The third years emerged from 
Transfiguration at lunchtime on Monday, limp and 
ashen-faced, comparing results and bemoaning the 
difficulty of the tasks they had been set, which had 
included turning a teapot into a tortoise. Hermione 
irritated the rest by fussing about how her tortoise 
had looked more like a turtle, which was the least of 
everyone else’s worries. 

“Mine still had a spout for a tail, what a nightmare. 



“Were the tortoises supposed to breathe steam?” 

“It still had a willow-patterned shell, d’you think 
that 11 count against me?” 

Then, after a hasty lunch, it was straight back 
upstairs for the Charms exam. Hermione had been 
right; Professor Flitwick did indeed test them on 
Cheering Charms. Harry slightly overdid his out of 
nerves and Ron, who was partnering him, ended up 
in fits of hysterical laughter and had to be led away to 
a quiet room for an hour before he was ready to 
perform the charm himself. After dinner, the students 
hurried back to their common rooms, not to relax, 
but to start studying for Care of Magical Creatures, 
Potions, and Astronomy. 



Page | 353 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid presided over the Care of Magical Creatures 
exam the following morning with a very preoccupied 
air indeed; his heart didn’t seem to be in it at all. He 
had provided a large tub of fresh flobberworms for the 
class, and told them that to pass the test, their 
flobberworm had to still be alive at the end of one 
hour. As flobberworms flourished best if left to their 
own devices, it was the easiest exam any of them had 
ever taken, and also gave Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
plenty of opportunity to speak to Hagrid. 

“Beaky’s gettin’ a bit depressed,” Hagrid told them, 
bending low on the pretense of checking that Harry’s 
flobberworm was still alive. “Bin cooped up too long. 
But still ... we’ll know day after tomorrow — one way 
or the other — ” 

They had Potions that afternoon, which was an 
unqualified disaster. Try as Harry might, he couldn’t 
get his Confusing Concoction to thicken, and Snape, 
standing watch with an air of vindictive pleasure, 
scribbled something that looked suspiciously like a 
zero onto his notes before moving away. 

Then came Astronomy at midnight, up on the tallest 
tower; History of Magic on Wednesday morning, in 
which Harry scribbled everything Florean Fortescue 
had ever told him about medieval witch-hunts, while 
wishing he could have had one of Fortescue ’s choco- 
nut sundaes with him in the stifling classroom. 
Wednesday afternoon meant Herbology, in the 
greenhouses under a baking-hot sun; then back to 
the common room once more, with sunburnt necks, 
thinking longingly of this time next day, when it 
would all be over. 

Their second to last exam, on Thursday morning, was 
Defense Against the Dark Arts. Professor Lupin had 
compiled the most unusual exam any of them had 

Page | 354 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




ever taken; a sort of obstacle course outside in the 
sun, where they had to wade across a deep paddling 
pool containing a grindylow, cross a series of potholes 
full of Red Caps, squish their way across a patch of 
marsh while ignoring misleading directions from a 
hinkypunk, then climb into an old trunk and battle 
with a new boggart. 

“Excellent, Harry,” Lupin muttered as Harry climbed 
out of the trunk, grinning. “Full marks.” 

Flushed with his success, Harry hung around to 
watch Ron and Hermione. Ron did very well until he 
reached the hinkypunk, which successfully confused 
him into sinking waist-high into the quagmire. 
Hermione did everything perfectly until she reached 
the trunk with the boggart in it. After about a minute 
inside it, she burst out again, screaming. 

“Hermione!” said Lupin, startled. “What’s the matter?” 

“P — P — Professor McGonagall!” Hermione gasped, 
pointing into the trunk. “Sh — she said I’d failed 
everything!” 

It took a little while to calm Hermione down. When at 
last she had regained a grip on herself, she, Harry, 
and Ron went back to the castle. Ron was still slightly 
inclined to laugh at Hermione ’s boggart, but an 
argument was averted by the sight that met them on 
the top of the steps. 

Cornelius Fudge, sweating slightly in his pinstriped 
cloak, was standing there staring out at the grounds. 
He started at the sight of Harry. 

“Hello there, Harry!” he said. “Just had an exam, I 
expect? Nearly finished?” 



Page | 355 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Harry. Hermione and Ron, not being on 
speaking terms with the Minister of Magic, hovered 
awkwardly in the background. 

“Lovely day,” said Fudge, casting an eye over the lake. 
“Pity ... pity ...” 

He sighed deeply and looked down at Harry. 

“I’m here on an unpleasant mission, Harry. The 
Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures 
required a witness to the execution of a mad 
hippogriff. As I needed to visit Hogwarts to check on 
the Black situation, I was asked to step in.” 

“Does that mean the appeal’s already happened?” Ron 
interrupted, stepping forward. 

“No, no, it’s scheduled for this afternoon,” said Fudge, 
looking curiously at Ron. 

“Then you might not have to witness an execution at 
all!” said Ron stoutly. “The hippogriff might get off!” 

Before Fudge could answer, two wizards came 
through the castle doors behind him. One was so 
ancient he appeared to be withering before their very 
eyes; the other was tall and strapping, with a thin 
black mustache. Harry gathered that they were 
representatives of the Committee for the Disposal of 
Dangerous Creatures, because the very old wizard 
squinted toward Hagrid’s cabin and said in a feeble 
voice, “Dear, dear, I’m getting too old for this. ... Two 
o’clock, isn’t it, Fudge?” 

The black-mustached man was fingering something in 
his belt; Harry looked and saw that he was running 
one broad thumb along the blade of a shining axe. 

Ron opened his mouth to say something, but 

Page | 356 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione nudged him hard in the ribs and jerked her 
head toward the entrance hall. 

“Why’d you stop me?” said Ron angrily as they 
entered the Great Hall for lunch. “Did you see them? 
They’ve even got the axe ready! This isn’t justice!” 

“Ron, your dad works for the Ministry, you can’t go 
saying things like that to his boss!” said Hermione, 
but she too looked very upset. “As long as Hagrid 
keeps his head this time, and argues his case 
properly, they can’t possibly execute Buckbeak. ...” 

But Harry could tell Hermione didn’t really believe 
what she was saying. All around them, people were 
talking excitedly as they ate their lunch, happily 
anticipating the end of the exams that afternoon, but 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione, lost in worry about Hagrid 
and Buckbeak, didn’t join in. 

Harry’s and Ron’s last exam was Divination; 
Hermione’s, Muggle Studies. They walked up the 
marble staircase together; Hermione left them on the 
first floor and Harry and Ron proceeded all the way 
up to the seventh, where many of their class were 
sitting on the spiral staircase to Professor Trelawney’s 
classroom, trying to cram in a bit of last-minute 
studying. 

“She’s seeing us all separately,” Neville informed them 
as they went to sit down next to him. He had his copy 
of Unfogging the Future open on his lap at the pages 
devoted to crystal gazing. “Have either of you ever 
seen anything in a crystal ball?” he asked them 
unhappily. 

“Nope,” said Ron in an offhand voice. He kept 
checking his watch; Harry knew that he was counting 
down the time until Buckbeak’s appeal started. 

Page | 357 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The line of people outside the classroom shortened 
very slowly. As each person climbed back down the 
silver ladder, the rest of the class hissed, “What did 
she ask? Was it okay?” 

But they all refused to say. 

“She says the crystal ball’s told her that if I tell you, 

I’ll have a horrible accident!” squeaked Neville as he 
clambered back down the ladder toward Harry and 
Ron, who had now reached the landing. 

“That’s convenient,” snorted Ron. “You know, I’m 
starting to think Hermione was right about her” — he 
jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor overhead — 
“she’s a right old fraud.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, looking at his own watch. It was 
now two o’clock. “Wish she’d hurry up ...” 

Parvati came back down the ladder glowing with 
pride. 

“She says I’ve got all the makings of a true Seer,” she 
informed Harry and Ron. “I saw loads of stuff. ... Well, 
good luck!” 

She hurried off down the spiral staircase toward 
Lavender. 

“Ronald Weasley,” said the familiar, misty voice from 
over their heads. Ron grimaced at Harry and climbed 
the silver ladder out of sight. Harry was now the only 
person left to be tested. He settled himself on the floor 
with his back against the wall, listening to a fly 
buzzing in the sunny window, his mind across the 
grounds with Hagrid. 



Page | 358 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Finally, after about twenty minutes, Ron’s large feet 
reappeared on the ladder. 

“How’d it go?” Harry asked him, standing up. 

“Rubbish,” said Ron. “Couldn’t see a thing, so I made 
some stuff up. Don’t think she was convinced, 
though. ...” 

“Meet you in the common room,” Harry muttered as 
Professor Trelawney’s voice called, “Harry Potter!” 

The tower room was hotter than ever before; the 
curtains were closed, the fire was alight, and the 
usual sickly scent made Harry cough as he stumbled 
through the clutter of chairs and tables to where 
Professor Trelawney sat waiting for him before a large 
crystal ball. 

“Good day, my dear,” she said softly. “If you would 
kindly gaze into the Orb. ... Take your time, now ... 
then tell me what you see within it. ...” 

Harry bent over the crystal ball and stared, stared as 
hard as he could, willing it to show him something 
other than swirling white fog, but nothing happened. 

“Well?” Professor Trelawney prompted delicately. 
“What do you see?” 

The heat was overpowering and his nostrils were 
stinging with the perfumed smoke wafting from the 
fire beside them. He thought of what Ron had just 
said, and decided to pretend. 

“Er — ” said Harry, “a dark shape ... um ...” 

“What does it resemble?” whispered Professor 
Trelawney. “Think, now ...” 

Page | 359 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry cast his mind around and it landed on 
Buckbeak. 

“A hippogriff,” he said firmly. 

“Indeed!” whispered Professor Trelawney, scribbling 
keenly on the parchment perched upon her knees. 
“My boy, you may well be seeing the outcome of poor 
Hagrid’s trouble with the Ministry of Magic! Look 
closer. . . . Does the hippogriff appear to . . . have its 
head?” 

“Yes,” said Harry firmly. 

“Are you sure?” Professor Trelawney urged him. “Are 
you quite sure, dear? You don’t see it writhing on the 
ground, perhaps, and a shadowy figure raising an axe 
behind it?” 

“No!” said Harry, starting to feel slightly sick. 

“No blood? No weeping Hagrid?” 

“No!” said Harry again, wanting more than ever to 
leave the room and the heat. “It looks fine, it’s — 
flying away. ...” 

Professor Trelawney sighed. 

“Well, dear, I think we’ll leave it there. ... A little 
disappointing ... but I’m sure you did your best.” 

Relieved, Harry got up, picked up his bag and turned 
to go, but then a loud, harsh voice spoke behind him. 

“It will happen tonight.” 



Page | 360 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry wheeled around. Professor Trelawney had gone 
rigid in her armchair; her eyes were unfocused and 
her mouth sagging. 

“S — sorry?” said Harry. 

But Professor Trelawney didn’t seem to hear him. Her 
eyes started to roll. Harry sat there in a panic. She 
looked as though she was about to have some sort of 
seizure. He hesitated, thinking of running to the 
hospital wing — and then Professor Trelawney spoke 
again, in the same harsh voice, quite unlike her own: 

“The Dark Lord lies alone and friendless, abandoned 
by his followers. His servant has been chained these 
twelve years. Tonight, before midnight ... the servant 
will break free and set out to rejoin his master. The 
Dark Lord will rise again with his servant’s aid, 
greater and more terrible than ever he was. Tonight ... 
before midnight . . . the servant . . . will set out ... to 
rejoin ... his master. ...” 

Professor Trelawney’s head fell forward onto her 
chest. She made a grunting sort of noise. Harry sat 
there, staring at her. Then, quite suddenly, Professor 
Trelawney’s head snapped up again. 

“I’m so sorry, dear boy,” she said dreamily, “the heat 
of the day, you know ... I drifted off for a moment. ...” 

Harry sat there, staring at her. 

“Is there anything wrong, my dear?” 

“You — you just told me that the — the Dark Lord’s 
going to rise again ... that his servant’s going to go 
back to him. ...” 

Professor Trelawney looked thoroughly startled. 

Page | 361 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“The Dark Lord? He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? My 
dear boy, that’s hardly something to joke about. ... 
Rise again, indeed — ” 

“But you just said it! You said the Dark Lord — ” 

“I think you must have dozed off too, dear!” said 
Professor Trelawney. “I would certainly not presume 
to predict anything quite as far-fetched as that\” 

Harry climbed back down the ladder and the spiral 
staircase, wondering ... had he just heard Professor 
Trelawney make a real prediction? Or had that been 
her idea of an impressive end to the test? 

Five minutes later he was dashing past the security 
trolls outside the entrance to Gryffindor Tower, 
Professor Trelawney’s words still resounding in his 
head. People were striding past him in the opposite 
direction, laughing and joking, heading for the 
grounds and a bit of long-awaited freedom; by the 
time he had reached the portrait hole and entered the 
common room, it was almost deserted. Over in the 
corner, however, sat Ron and Hermione. 

“Professor Trelawney,” Harry panted, “just told me — ” 

But he stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces. 

“Buckbeak lost,” said Ron weakly. “Hagrid’s just sent 
this.” 

Hagrid’s note was dry this time, no tears had 
splattered it, yet his hand seemed to have shaken so 
much as he wrote that it was hardly legible. 

Lost appeal. They’re going to execute at sunset 



Nothing you can do. Don’t come down. 

Page | 362 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




I don’t want you to see it 
Hagrid 

“We’ve got to go,” said Harry at once. “He can’t just sit 
there on his own, waiting for the executioner!” 

