      and something had happened—something which people kept dark; he
      had heard his father once use an unmentionable word of her.

      “I don’t want to speak ill of your father,” Soames went on
      doggedly, “but I know him well enough to be sure that he’ll be
      back on your mother’s hands before a year’s over. You can imagine
      what that will mean to her and to all of you after this. The only
      thing is to cut the knot for good.”

      In spite of himself, Val was impressed; and, happening to look at
      his mother’s face, he got what was perhaps his first real insight
      into the fact that his own feelings were not always what mattered
      most.

      “All right, mother,” he said; “we’ll back you up. Only I’d like
      to know when it’ll be. It’s my first term, you know. I don’t want
      to be up there when it comes off.”

      “Oh! my dear boy,” murmured Winifred, “it _is_ a bore for you.”
      So, by habit, she phrased what, from the expression of her face,
      was the most poignant regret. “When will it be, Soames?”

      “Can’t tell—not for months. We must get restitution first.”

      “What the deuce is that?” thought Val. “What silly brutes lawyers
      are! Not for months! I know one thing: I’m not going to dine in!”
      And he said:

      “Awfully sorry, mother, I’ve got to go out to dinner now.”

      Though it was his last night, Winifred nodded almost gratefully;
      they both felt that they had gone quite far enough in the
      expression of feeling.

      Val sought the misty freedom of Green Street, reckless and
      depressed. And not till he reached Piccadilly did he discover
      that he had only eighteen-pence. One couldn’t dine off
      eighteen-pence, and he was very hungry. He looked longingly at
      the windows of the Iseeum Club, where he had often eaten of the
      best with his father! Those pearls! There was no getting over
      them! But the more he brooded and the further he walked the
      hungrier he naturally became. Short of trailing home, there were
      only two places where he could go—his grandfather’s in Park Lane,
      and Timothy’s in the Bayswater Road. Which was the less
      deplorable? At his grandfather’s he would probably get a better
      dinner on the spur of the moment. At Timothy’s they gave you a
      jolly good feed when they expected you, not otherwise. He decided
      on Park Lane, not unmoved by the thought that to go up to Oxford
      without affording his grandfather a chance to tip him was hardly
      fair to either of them. His mother would hear he had been there,
      of course, and might think it funny; but he couldn’t help that.
      He rang the bell.

      “Hullo, Warmson, any dinner for me, d’you think?”

      “They’re just going in, Master Val. Mr. Forsyte will be very glad
      to see you. He was saying at lunch that he never saw you
      nowadays.”

      Val grinned.

      “Well, here I am. Kill the fatted calf, Warmson, let’s have
      fizz.”

      Warmson smiled faintly—in his opinion Val was a young limb.

      “I will ask Mrs. Forsyte, Master Val.”

      “I say,” Val grumbled, taking off his overcoat, “I’m not at
      school any more, you know.”

      Warmson, not without a sense of humour, opened the door beyond
      the stag’s-horn coat stand, with the words:

      “Mr. Valerus, ma’am.”

      “Confound him!” thought Val, entering.

      A warm embrace, a “Well, Val!” from Emily, and a rather quavery
      “So there you are at last!” from James, restored his sense of
      dignity.

      “Why didn’t you let us know? There’s only saddle of mutton.
      Champagne, Warmson,” said Emily. And they went in.

      At the great dining-table, shortened to its utmost, under which
      so many fashionable legs had rested, James sat at one end, Emily
      at the other, Val half-way between them; and something of the
      loneliness of his grandparents, now that all their four children
      were flown, reached the boy’s spirit. “I hope I shall kick the
      bucket long before I’m as old as grandfather,” he thought. “Poor
      old chap, he’s as thin as a rail!” And lowering his voice while
      his grandfather and Warmson were in discussion about sugar in the
      soup, he said to Emily:

      “It’s pretty brutal at home, Granny. I suppose you know.”

      “Yes, dear boy.”

      “Uncle Soames was there when I left. I say, isn’t there anything
      to be done to prevent a divorce? Why is he so beastly keen on
      it?”

      “Hush, my dear!” murmured Emily; “we’re keeping it from your
      grandfather.”

      James’ voice sounded from the other end.

      “What’s that? What are you talking about?”

      “About Val’s college,” returned Emily. “Young Pariser was there,
      James; you remember—he nearly broke the Bank at Monte Carlo
      afterwards.”

      James muttered that he did not know—Val must look after himself
      up there, or he’d get into bad ways. And he looked at his
      grandson with gloom, out of which affection distrustfully
      glimmered.

      “What I’m afraid of,” said Val to his plate, “is of being hard
      up, you know.”

      By instinct he knew that the weak spot in that old man was fear
      of insecurity for his grandchildren.

      “Well,” said James, and the soup in his spoon dribbled over,
      “you’ll have a good allowance; but you must keep within it.”

      “Of course,” murmured Val; “if it is good. How much will it be,
      Grandfather?”

      “Three hundred and fifty; it’s too much. I had next to nothing at
      your age.”

      Val sighed. He had hoped for four, and been afraid of three. “I
      don’t know what your young cousin has,” said James; “he’s up
      there. His father’s a rich man.”

      “Aren’t you?” asked Val hardily.

      “I?” replied James, flustered. “I’ve got so many expenses. Your
      father....” and he was silent.

      “Cousin Jolyon’s got an awfully jolly place. I went down there
      with Uncle Soames—ripping stables.”

      “Ah!” murmured James profoundly. “That house—I knew how it would
      be!” And he lapsed into gloomy meditation over his fish-bones.
      His son’s tragedy, and the deep cleavage it had caused in the
      Forsyte family, had still the power to draw him down into a
      whirlpool of doubts and misgivings. Val, who hankered to talk of
      Robin Hill, because Robin Hill meant Holly, turned to Emily and
      said:

      “Was that the house built for Uncle Soames?” And, receiving her
      nod, went on: “I wish you’d tell me about him, Granny. What
      became of Aunt Irene? Is she still going? He seems awfully
      worked-up about something to-night.”

      Emily laid her finger on her lips, but the word Irene had caught
      James’ ear.

      “What’s that?” he said, staying a piece of mutton close to his
      lips. “Who’s been seeing her? I knew we hadn’t heard the last of
      that.”

      “Now, James,” said Emily, “eat your dinner. Nobody’s been seeing
      anybody.”

      James put down his fork.

      “There you go,” he said. “I might die before you’d tell me of it.
      Is Soames getting a divorce?”

      “Nonsense,” said Emily with incomparable aplomb; “Soames is much
      too sensible.”

      James had sought his own throat, gathering the long white
      whiskers together on the skin and bone of it.

      “She—she was always....” he said, and with that enigmatic remark
      the conversation lapsed, for Warmson had returned. But later,
      when the saddle of mutton had been succeeded by sweet, savoury,
      and dessert, and Val had received a cheque for twenty pounds and
      his grandfather’s kiss—like no other kiss in the world, from lips
      pushed out with a sort of fearful suddenness, as if yielding to
      weakness—he returned to the charge in the hall.

      “Tell us about Uncle Soames, Granny. Why is he so keen on
      mother’s getting a divorce?”

      “Your Uncle Soames,” said Emily, and her voice had in it an
      exaggerated assurance, “is a lawyer, my dear boy. He’s sure to
      know best.”

      “Is he?” muttered Val. “But what did become of Aunt Irene? I
      remember she was jolly good-looking.”

      “She—er....” said Emily, “behaved very badly. We don’t talk about
      it.”

      “Well, I don’t want everybody at Oxford to know about our
      affairs,” ejaculated Val; “it’s a brutal idea. Why couldn’t
      father be prevented without its being made public?”

      Emily sighed. She had always lived rather in an atmosphere of
      divorce, owing to her fashionable proclivities—so many of those
      whose legs had been under her table having gained a certain
      notoriety. When, however, it touched her own family, she liked it
      no better than other people. But she was eminently practical, and
      a woman of courage, who never pursued a shadow in preference to
      its substance.

      “Your mother,” she said, “will be happier if she’s quite free,
      Val. Good-night, my dear boy; and don’t wear loud waistcoats up
      at Oxford, they’re not the thing just now. Here’s a little
      present.”

      With another five pounds in his hand, and a little warmth in his
      heart, for he was fond of his grandmother, he went out into Park
      Lane. A wind had cleared the mist, the autumn leaves were
      rustling, and the stars were shining. With all that money in his
      pocket an impulse to “see life” beset him; but he had not gone
      forty yards in the direction of Piccadilly when Holly’s shy face,
      and her eyes with an imp dancing in their gravity, came up before
      him, and his hand seemed to be tingling again from the pressure
      of her warm gloved hand. “No, dash it!” he thought, “I’m going
      home!”




      CHAPTER X SOAMES ENTERTAINS THE FUTURE


      It was full late for the river, but the weather was lovely, and
      summer lingered below the yellowing leaves. Soames took many
      looks at the day from his riverside garden near Mapledurham that
      Sunday morning.

      With his own hands he put flowers about his little house-boat,
      and equipped the punt, in which, after lunch, he proposed to take
      them on the river. Placing those Chinese-looking cushions, he
      could not tell whether or no he wished to take Annette alone. She
      was so very pretty—could he trust himself not to say irrevocable
      words, passing beyond the limits of discretion? Roses on the
      veranda were still in bloom, and the hedges ever-green, so that
      there was almost nothing of middle-aged autumn to chill the mood;
      yet was he nervous, fidgety, strangely distrustful of his powers
      to steer just the right course. This visit had been planned to
      produce in Annette and her mother a due sense of his possessions,
      so that they should be ready to receive with respect any overture
      he might later be disposed to make. He dressed with great care,
      making himself neither too young nor too old, very thankful that
      his hair was still thick and smooth and had no grey in it. Three
      times he went up to his picture-gallery. If they had any
      knowledge at all, they must see at once that his collection alone
      was worth at least thirty thousand pounds. He minutely inspected,
      too, the pretty bedroom overlooking the river where they would
      take off their hats. It would be her bedroom if—if the matter
      went through, and she became his wife. Going up to the
      dressing-table he passed his hand over the lilac-coloured
      pincushion, into which were stuck all kinds of pins; a bowl of
      pot-pourri exhaled a scent that made his head turn just a little.
      His wife! If only the whole thing could be settled out of hand,
      and there was not the nightmare of this divorce to be gone
      through first; and with gloom puckered on his forehead, he looked
      out at the river shining beyond the roses and the lawn. Madame
      Lamotte would never resist this prospect for her child; Annette
      would never resist her mother. If only he were free! He drove to
      the station to meet them. What taste Frenchwomen had! Madame
      Lamotte was in black with touches of lilac colour, Annette in
      greyish lilac linen, with cream coloured gloves and hat. Rather
      pale she looked and Londony; and her blue eyes were demure.
      Waiting for them to come down to lunch, Soames stood in the open
      french-window of the diningroom moved by that sensuous delight in
      sunshine and flowers and trees which only came to the full when
      youth and beauty were there to share it with one. He had ordered
      the lunch with intense consideration; the wine was a very special
      Sauterne, the whole appointments of the meal perfect, the coffee
      served on the veranda super-excellent. Madame Lamotte accepted
      creme de menthe; Annette refused. Her manners were charming, with
      just a suspicion of “the conscious beauty” creeping into them.
      “Yes,” thought Soames, “another year of London and that sort of
      life, and she’ll be spoiled.”

      Madame was in sedate French raptures. “_Adorable! Le soleil est
      si bon!_ How everything is _chic_, is it not, Annette? Monsieur
      is a real Monte Cristo.” Annette murmured assent, with a look up
      at Soames which he could not read. He proposed a turn on the
      river. But to punt two persons when one of them looked so
      ravishing on those Chinese cushions was merely to suffer from a
      sense of lost opportunity; so they went but a short way towards
      Pangbourne, drifting slowly back, with every now and then an
      autumn leaf dropping on Annette or on her mother’s black
      amplitude. And Soames was not happy, worried by the thought:
      “How—when—where—can I say—what?” They did not yet even know that
      he was married. To tell them he was married might jeopardise his
      every chance; yet, if he did not definitely make them understand
      that he wished for Annette’s hand, it would be dropping into some
      other clutch before he was free to claim it.

      At tea, which they both took with lemon, Soames spoke of the
      Transvaal.

      “There’ll be war,” he said.

      Madame Lamotte lamented.

      “_Ces pauvres gens bergers!_” Could they not be left to
      themselves?

      Soames smiled—the question seemed to him absurd.

      Surely as a woman of business she understood that the British
      could not abandon their legitimate commercial interests.

      “Ah! that!” But Madame Lamotte found that the English were a
      little hypocrite. They were talking of justice and the
      Uitlanders, not of business. Monsieur was the first who had
      spoken to her of that.

      “The Boers are only half-civilised,” remarked Soames; “they stand
      in the way of progress. It will never do to let our suzerainty
      go.”

      “What does that mean to say? Suzerainty!”

      “What a strange word!” Soames became eloquent, roused by these
      threats to the principle of possession, and stimulated by
      Annette’s eyes fixed on him. He was delighted when presently she
      said:

      “I think Monsieur is right. They should be taught a lesson.” She
      was sensible!

      “Of course,” he said, “we must act with moderation. I’m no jingo.
      We must be firm without bullying. Will you come up and see my
      pictures?” Moving from one to another of these treasures, he soon
      perceived that they knew nothing. They passed his last Mauve,
      that remarkable study of a “Hay-cart going Home,” as if it were a
      lithograph. He waited almost with awe to see how they would view
      the jewel of his collection—an Israels whose price he had watched
      ascending till he was now almost certain it had reached top
      value, and would be better on the market again. They did not view
      it at all. This was a shock; and yet to have in Annette a virgin
      taste to form would be better than to have the silly, half-baked
      predilections of the English middle-class to deal with. At the
      end of the gallery was a Meissonier of which he was rather
      ashamed—Meissonier was so steadily going down. Madame Lamotte
      stopped before it.

      “Meissonier! Ah! What a jewel!” Soames took advantage of that
      moment. Very gently touching Annette’s arm, he said:

      “How do you like my place, Annette?”

      She did not shrink, did not respond; she looked at him full,
      looked down, and murmured:

      “Who would not like it? It is so beautiful!”

      “Perhaps some day—” Soames said, and stopped.

      So pretty she was, so self-possessed—she frightened him. Those
      cornflower-blue eyes, the turn of that creamy neck, her delicate
      curves—she was a standing temptation to indiscretion! No! No! One
      must be sure of one’s ground—much surer! “If I hold off,” he
      thought, “it will tantalise her.” And he crossed over to Madame
      Lamotte, who was still in front of the Meissonier.

      “Yes, that’s quite a good example of his later work. You must
      come again, Madame, and see them lighted up. You must both come
      and spend a night.”

      Enchanted, would it not be beautiful to see them lighted? By
      moonlight too, the river must be ravishing!

      Annette murmured:

      “Thou art sentimental, _Maman!_”

      Sentimental! That black-robed, comely, substantial Frenchwoman of
      the world! And suddenly he was certain as he could be that there
      was no sentiment in either of them. All the better. Of what use
      sentiment? And yet...!

      He drove to the station with them, and saw them into the train.
      To the tightened pressure of his hand it seemed that Annette’s
      fingers responded just a little; her face smiled at him through
      the dark.

      He went back to the carriage, brooding. “Go on home, Jordan,” he
      said to the coachman; “I’ll walk.” And he strode out into the
      darkening lanes, caution and the desire of possession playing
      see-saw within him. “_Bon soir, monsieur!_” How softly she had
      said it. To know what was in her mind! The French—they were like
      cats—one could tell nothing! But—how pretty! What a perfect young
      thing to hold in one’s arms! What a mother for his heir! And he
      thought, with a smile, of his family and their surprise at a
      French wife, and their curiosity, and of the way he would play
      with it and buffet it confound them!

      The poplars sighed in the darkness; an owl hooted. Shadows
      deepened in the water. “I will and must be free,” he thought. “I
      won’t hang about any longer. I’ll go and see Irene. If you want
      things done, do them yourself. I must live again—live and move
      and have my being.” And in echo to that queer biblicality
      church-bells chimed the call to evening prayer.




      CHAPTER XI AND VISITS THE PAST


      On a Tuesday evening after dining at his club Soames set out to
      do what required more courage and perhaps less delicacy than
      anything he had yet undertaken in his life—save perhaps his
      birth, and one other action. He chose the evening, indeed, partly
      because Irene was more likely to be in, but mainly because he had
      failed to find sufficient resolution by daylight, had needed wine
      to give him extra daring.

      He left his hansom on the Embankment, and walked up to the Old
      Church, uncertain of the block of flats where he knew she lived.
      He found it hiding behind a much larger mansion; and having read
      the name, “Mrs. Irene Heron”—Heron, forsooth! Her maiden name: so
      she used that again, did she?—he stepped back into the road to
      look up at the windows of the first floor. Light was coming
      through in the corner flat, and he could hear a piano being
      played. He had never had a love of music, had secretly borne it a
      grudge in the old days when so often she had turned to her piano,
      making of it a refuge place into which she knew he could not
      enter. Repulse! The long repulse, at first restrained and secret,
      at last open! Bitter memory came with that sound. It must be she
      playing, and thus almost assured of seeing her, he stood more
      undecided than ever. Shivers of anticipation ran through him; his
      tongue felt dry, his heart beat fast. “_I_ have no cause to be
      afraid,” he thought. And then the lawyer stirred within him. Was
      he doing a foolish thing? Ought he not to have arranged a formal
      meeting in the presence of her trustee? No! Not before that
      fellow Jolyon, who sympathised with her! Never! He crossed back
      into the doorway, and, slowly, to keep down the beating of his
      heart, mounted the single flight of stairs and rang the bell.
      When the door was opened to him his sensations were regulated by
      the scent which came—that perfume—from away back in the past,
      bringing muffled remembrance: fragrance of a drawing-room he used
      to enter, of a house he used to own—perfume of dried rose-leaves
      and honey!

      “Say, Mr. Forsyte,” he said, “your mistress will see me, I know.”
      He had thought this out; she would think it was Jolyon!

      When the maid was gone and he was alone in the tiny hall, where
      the light was dim from one pearly-shaded sconce, and walls,
      carpet, everything was silvery, making the walled-in space all
      ghostly, he could only think ridiculously: “Shall I go in with my
      overcoat on, or take it off?” The music ceased; the maid said
      from the doorway:

      “Will you walk in, sir?”

      Soames walked in. He noted mechanically that all was still
      silvery, and that the upright piano was of satinwood. She had
      risen and stood recoiled against it; her hand, placed on the keys
      as if groping for support, had struck a sudden discord, held for
      a moment, and released. The light from the shaded piano-candle
      fell on her neck, leaving her face rather in shadow. She was in a
      black evening dress, with a sort of mantilla over her
      shoulders—he did not remember ever having seen her in black, and
      the thought passed through him: “She dresses even when she’s
      alone.”

      “You!” he heard her whisper.

      Many times Soames had rehearsed this scene in fancy. Rehearsal
      served him not at all. He simply could not speak. He had never
      thought that the sight of this woman whom he had once so
      passionately desired, so completely owned, and whom he had not
      seen for twelve years, could affect him in this way. He had
      imagined himself speaking and acting, half as man of business,
      half as judge. And now it was as if he were in the presence not
      of a mere woman and erring wife, but of some force, subtle and
      elusive as atmosphere itself within him and outside. A kind of
      defensive irony welled up in him.

      “Yes, it’s a queer visit! I hope you’re well.”

      “Thank you. Will you sit down?”

      She had moved away from the piano, and gone over to a
      window-seat, sinking on to it, with her hands clasped in her lap.
      Light fell on her there, so that Soames could see her face, eyes,
      hair, strangely as he remembered them, strangely beautiful.

      He sat down on the edge of a satinwood chair, upholstered with
      silver-coloured stuff, close to where he was standing.

      “You have not changed,” he said.

      “No? What have you come for?”

      “To discuss things.”

      “I have heard what you want from your cousin.”

      “Well?”

      “I am willing. I have always been.”

      The sound of her voice, reserved and close, the sight of her
      figure watchfully poised, defensive, was helping him now. A
      thousand memories of her, ever on the watch against him, stirred,
      and....

      “Perhaps you will be good enough, then, to give me information on
      which I can act. The law must be complied with.”

      “I have none to give you that you don’t know of.”

      “Twelve years! Do you suppose I can believe that?”

      “I don’t suppose you will believe anything I say; but it’s the
      truth.”

      Soames looked at her hard. He had said that she had not changed;
      now he perceived that she had. Not in face, except that it was
      more beautiful; not in form, except that it was a little
      fuller—no! She had changed spiritually. There was more of her, as
      it were, something of activity and daring, where there had been
      sheer passive resistance. “Ah!” he thought, “that’s her
      independent income! Confound Uncle Jolyon!”

      “I suppose you’re comfortably off now?” he said.

      “Thank you, yes.”

      “Why didn’t you let me provide for you? I would have, in spite of
      everything.”

      A faint smile came on her lips; but she did not answer.

      “You are still my wife,” said Soames. Why he said that, what he
      meant by it, he knew neither when he spoke nor after. It was a
      truism almost preposterous, but its effect was startling. She
      rose from the window-seat, and stood for a moment perfectly
      still, looking at him. He could see her bosom heaving. Then she
      turned to the window and threw it open.

      “Why do that?” he said sharply. “You’ll catch cold in that dress.
      I’m not dangerous.” And he uttered a little sad laugh.

      She echoed it—faintly, bitterly.

      “It was—habit.”

      “Rather odd habit,” said Soames as bitterly. “Shut the window!”

      She shut it and sat down again. She had developed power, this
      woman—this—wife of his! He felt it issuing from her as she sat
      there, in a sort of armour. And almost unconsciously he rose and
      moved nearer; he wanted to see the expression on her face. Her
      eyes met his unflinching. Heavens! how clear they were, and what
      a dark brown against that white skin, and that burnt-amber hair!
      And how white her shoulders.

      Funny sensation this! He ought to hate her.

      “You had better tell me,” he said; “it’s to your advantage to be
      free as well as to mine. That old matter is too old.”

      “I _have_ told you.”

      “Do you mean to tell me there has been nothing—nobody?”

      “Nobody. You must go to your own life.”

      Stung by that retort, Soames moved towards the piano and back to
      the hearth, to and fro, as he had been wont in the old days in
      their drawing-room when his feelings were too much for him.

      “That won’t do,” he said. “You deserted me. In common justice
      it’s for you....”

      He saw her shrug those white shoulders, heard her murmur:

      “Yes. Why didn’t you divorce me then? Should I have cared?”

      He stopped, and looked at her intently with a sort of curiosity.
      What on earth did she do with herself, if she really lived quite
      alone? And why had he not divorced her? The old feeling that she
      had never understood him, never done him justice, bit him while
      he stared at her.

      “Why couldn’t you have made me a good wife?” he said.

      “Yes; it was a crime to marry you. I have paid for it. You will
      find some way perhaps. You needn’t mind my name, I have none to
      lose. Now I think you had better go.”

      A sense of defeat—of being defrauded of his self-justification,
      and of something else beyond power of explanation to himself,
      beset Soames like the breath of a cold fog. Mechanically he
      reached up, took from the mantel-shelf a little china bowl,
      reversed it, and said:

      “Lowestoft. Where did you get this? I bought its fellow at
      Jobson’s.” And, visited by the sudden memory of how, those many
      years ago, he and she had bought china together, he remained
      staring at the little bowl, as if it contained all the past. Her
      voice roused him.

      “Take it. I don’t want it.”

      Soames put it back on the shelf.

      “Will you shake hands?” he said.

      A faint smile curved her lips. She held out her hand. It was cold
      to his rather feverish touch. “She’s made of ice,” he
      thought—“she was always made of ice!” But even as that thought
      darted through him, his senses were assailed by the perfume of
      her dress and body, as though the warmth within her, which had
      never been for him, were struggling to show its presence. And he
      turned on his heel. He walked out and away, as if someone with a
      whip were after him, not even looking for a cab, glad of the
      empty Embankment and the cold river, and the thick-strewn shadows
      of the plane-tree leaves—confused, flurried, sore at heart, and
      vaguely disturbed, as though he had made some deep mistake whose
      consequences he could not foresee. And the fantastic thought
      suddenly assailed him if instead of, “I think you had better go,”
      she had said, “I think you had better stay!” What should he have
      felt, what would he have done? That cursed attraction of her was
      there for him even now, after all these years of estrangement and
      bitter thoughts. It was there, ready to mount to his head at a
      sign, a touch. “I was a fool to go!” he muttered. “I’ve advanced
      nothing. Who could imagine? I never thought!” Memory, flown back
      to the first years of his marriage, played him torturing tricks.
      She had not deserved to keep her beauty—the beauty he had owned
      and known so well. And a kind of bitterness at the tenacity of
      his own admiration welled up in him. Most men would have hated
      the sight of her, as she had deserved. She had spoiled his life,
      wounded his pride to death, defrauded him of a son. And yet the
      mere sight of her, cold and resisting as ever, had this power to
      upset him utterly! It was some damned magnetism she had! And no
      wonder if, as she asserted; she had lived untouched these last
      twelve years. So Bosinney—cursed be his memory!—had lived on all
      this time with her! Soames could not tell whether he was glad of
      that knowledge or no.

      Nearing his Club at last he stopped to buy a paper. A headline
      ran: “Boers reported to repudiate suzerainty!” Suzerainty! “Just
      like her!” he thought: “she always did. Suzerainty! I still have
      it by rights. She must be awfully lonely in that wretched little
      flat!”




      CHAPTER XII ON FORSYTE ’CHANGE


      Soames belonged to two clubs, “The Connoisseurs,” which he put on
      his cards and seldom visited, and “The Remove,” which he did not
      put on his cards and frequented. He had joined this Liberal
      institution five years ago, having made sure that its members
      were now nearly all sound Conservatives in heart and pocket, if
      not in principle. Uncle Nicholas had put him up. The fine
      reading-room was decorated in the Adam style.

      On entering that evening he glanced at the tape for any news
      about the Transvaal, and noted that Consols were down
      seven-sixteenths since the morning. He was turning away to seek
      the reading-room when a voice behind him said:

      “Well, Soames, that went off all right.”

      It was Uncle Nicholas, in a frock-coat and his special cut-away
      collar, with a black tie passed through a ring. Heavens! How
      young and dapper he looked at eighty-two!

      “I think Roger’d have been pleased,” his uncle went on. “The
      thing was very well done. Blackley’s? I’ll make a note of them.
      Buxton’s done me no good. These Boers are upsetting me—that
      fellow Chamberlain’s driving the country into war. What do you
      think?”

      “Bound to come,” murmured Soames.

      Nicholas passed his hand over his thin, clean-shaven cheeks, very
      rosy after his summer cure; a slight pout had gathered on his
      lips. This business had revived all his Liberal principles.

      “I mistrust that chap; he’s a stormy petrel. House-property will
      go down if there’s war. You’ll have trouble with Roger’s estate.
      I often told him he ought to get out of some of his houses. He
      was an opinionated beggar.”

      “There was a pair of you!” thought Soames. But he never argued
      with an uncle, in that way preserving their opinion of him as “a
      long-headed chap,” and the legal care of their property.

      “They tell me at Timothy’s,” said Nicholas, lowering his voice,
      “that Dartie has gone off at last. That’ll be a relief to your
      father. He was a rotten egg.”

      Again Soames nodded. If there was a subject on which the Forsytes
      really agreed, it was the character of Montague Dartie.

      “You take care,” said Nicholas, “or he’ll turn up again. Winifred
      had better have the tooth out, I should say. No use preserving
      what’s gone bad.”

      Soames looked at him sideways. His nerves, exacerbated by the
      interview he had just come through, disposed him to see a
      personal allusion in those words.

      “I’m advising her,” he said shortly.

      “Well,” said Nicholas, “the brougham’s waiting; I must get home.
      I’m very poorly. Remember me to your father.”

      And having thus reconsecrated the ties of blood, he passed down
      the steps at his youthful gait and was wrapped into his fur coat
      by the junior porter.

      “I’ve never known Uncle Nicholas other than ‘very poorly,’” mused
      Soames, “or seen him look other than everlasting. What a family!
      Judging by him, I’ve got thirty-eight years of health before me.
      Well, I’m not going to waste them.” And going over to a mirror he
      stood looking at his face. Except for a line or two, and three or
      four grey hairs in his little dark moustache, had he aged any
      more than Irene? The prime of life—he and she in the very prime
      of life! And a fantastic thought shot into his mind. Absurd!
      Idiotic! But again it came. And genuinely alarmed by the
      recurrence, as one is by the second fit of shivering which
      presages a feverish cold, he sat down on the weighing machine.
      Eleven stone! He had not varied two pounds in twenty years. What
      age was she? Nearly thirty-seven—not too old to have a child—not
      at all! Thirty-seven on the ninth of next month. He remembered
      her birthday well—he had always observed it religiously, even
      that last birthday so soon before she left him, when he was
      almost certain she was faithless. Four birthdays in his house. He
      had looked forward to them, because his gifts had meant a
      semblance of gratitude, a certain attempt at warmth. Except,
      indeed, that last birthday—which had tempted him to be too
      religious! And he shied away in thought. Memory heaps dead leaves
      on corpse-like deeds, from under which they do but vaguely offend
      the sense. And then he thought suddenly: “I could send her a
      present for her birthday. After all, we’re Christians!
      Couldn’t!—couldn’t we join up again!” And he uttered a deep sigh
      sitting there. Annette! Ah! but between him and Annette was the
      need for that wretched divorce suit! And how?

      “A man can always work these things, if he’ll take it on
      himself,” Jolyon had said.

      But why should he take the scandal on himself with his whole
      career as a pillar of the law at stake? It was not fair! It was
      quixotic! Twelve years’ separation in which he had taken no steps
      to free himself put out of court the possibility of using her
      conduct with Bosinney as a ground for divorcing her. By doing
      nothing to secure relief he had acquiesced, even if the evidence
      could now be gathered, which was more than doubtful. Besides, his
      own pride would never let him use that old incident, he had
      suffered from it too much. No! Nothing but fresh misconduct on
      her part—but she had denied it; and—almost—he had believed her.
      Hung up! Utterly hung up!

      He rose from the scooped-out red velvet seat with a feeling of
      constriction about his vitals. He would never sleep with this
      going on in him! And, taking coat and hat again, he went out,
      moving eastward. In Trafalgar Square he became aware of some
      special commotion travelling towards him out of the mouth of the
      Strand. It materialised in newspaper men calling out so loudly
      that no words whatever could be heard. He stopped to listen, and
      one came by.

      “Payper! Special! Ultimatium by Krooger! Declaration of war!”
      Soames bought the paper. There it was in the stop press...! His
      first thought was: “The Boers are committing suicide.” His
      second: “Is there anything still I ought to sell?” If so he had
      missed the chance—there would certainly be a slump in the city
      to-morrow. He swallowed this thought with a nod of defiance. That
      ultimatum was insolent—sooner than let it pass he was prepared to
      lose money. They wanted a lesson, and they would get it; but it
      would take three months at least to bring them to heel. There
      weren’t the troops out there; always behind time, the Government!
      Confound those newspaper rats! What was the use of waking
      everybody up? Breakfast to-morrow was quite soon enough. And he
      thought with alarm of his father. They would cry it down Park
      Lane. Hailing a hansom, he got in and told the man to drive
      there.

      James and Emily had just gone up to bed, and after communicating
      the news to Warmson, Soames prepared to follow. He paused by
      after-thought to say:

      “What do you think of it, Warmson?”

      The butler ceased passing a hat brush over the silk hat Soames
      had taken off, and, inclining his face a little forward, said in
      a low voice: “Well, sir, they ’aven’t a chance, of course; but
      I’m told they’re very good shots. I’ve got a son in the
      Inniskillings.”

      “You, Warmson? Why, I didn’t know you were married.”

      “No, sir. I don’t talk of it. I expect he’ll be going out.”

      The slighter shock Soames had felt on discovering that he knew so
      little of one whom he thought he knew so well was lost in the
      slight shock of discovering that the war might touch one
      personally. Born in the year of the Crimean War, he had only come
      to consciousness by the time the Indian Mutiny was over; since
      then the many little wars of the British Empire had been entirely
      professional, quite unconnected with the Forsytes and all they
      stood for in the body politic. This war would surely be no
      exception. But his mind ran hastily over his family. Two of the
      Haymans, he had heard, were in some Yeomanry or other—it had
      always been a pleasant thought, there was a certain distinction
      about the Yeomanry; they wore, or used to wear, a blue uniform
      with silver about it, and rode horses. And Archibald, he
      remembered, had once on a time joined the Militia, but had given
      it up because his father, Nicholas, had made such a fuss about
      his “wasting his time peacocking about in a uniform.” Recently he
      had heard somewhere that young Nicholas’ eldest, very young
      Nicholas, had become a Volunteer. “No,” thought Soames, mounting
      the stairs slowly, “there’s nothing in that!”

      He stood on the landing outside his parents’ bed and dressing
      rooms, debating whether or not to put his nose in and say a
      reassuring word. Opening the landing window, he listened. The
      rumble from Piccadilly was all the sound he heard, and with the
      thought, “If these motor-cars increase, it’ll affect house
      property,” he was about to pass on up to the room always kept
      ready for him when he heard, distant as yet, the hoarse rushing
      call of a newsvendor. There it was, and coming past the house! He
      knocked on his mother’s door and went in.

      His father was sitting up in bed, with his ears pricked under the
      white hair which Emily kept so beautifully cut. He looked pink,
      and extraordinarily clean, in his setting of white sheet and
      pillow, out of which the points of his high, thin, nightgowned
      shoulders emerged in small peaks. His eyes alone, grey and
      distrustful under their withered lids, were moving from the
      window to Emily, who in a wrapper was walking up and down,
      squeezing a rubber ball attached to a scent bottle. The room
      reeked faintly of the eau-de-Cologne she was spraying.

      “All right!” said Soames, “it’s not a fire. The Boers have
      declared war—that’s all.”

      Emily stopped her spraying.

      “Oh!” was all she said, and looked at James.

      Soames, too, looked at his father. He was taking it differently
      from their expectation, as if some thought, strange to them, were
      working in him.

      “H’m!” he muttered suddenly, “I shan’t live to see the end of
      this.”

      “Nonsense, James! It’ll be over by Christmas.”

      “What do you know about it?” James answered her with asperity.
      “It’s a pretty mess at this time of night, too!” He lapsed into
      silence, and his wife and son, as if hypnotised, waited for him
      to say: “I can’t tell—I don’t know; I knew how it would be!” But
      he did not. The grey eyes shifted, evidently seeing nothing in
      the room; then movement occurred under the bedclothes, and the
      knees were drawn up suddenly to a great height.

      “They ought to send out Roberts. It all comes from that fellow
      Gladstone and his Majuba.”

      The two listeners noted something beyond the usual in his voice,
      something of real anxiety. It was as if he had said: “I shall
      never see the old country peaceful and safe again. I shall have
      to die before I know she’s won.” And in spite of the feeling that
      James must not be encouraged to be fussy, they were touched.
      Soames went up to the bedside and stroked his father’s hand which
      had emerged from under the bedclothes, long and wrinkled with
      veins.

      “Mark my words!” said James, “consols will go to par. For all I
      know, Val may go and enlist.”

      “Oh, come, James!” cried Emily, “you talk as if there were
      danger.”

      Her comfortable voice seemed to soothe James for once.

      “Well,” he muttered, “I told you how it would be. I don’t know,
      I’m sure—nobody tells me anything. Are you sleeping here, my
      boy?”

      The crisis was past, he would now compose himself to his normal
      degree of anxiety; and, assuring his father that he was sleeping
      in the house, Soames pressed his hand, and went up to his room.

      The following afternoon witnessed the greatest crowd Timothy’s
      had known for many a year. On national occasions, such as this,
      it was, indeed, almost impossible to avoid going there. Not that
      there was any danger or rather only just enough to make it
      necessary to assure each other that there was none.

      Nicholas was there early. He had seen Soames the night
      before—Soames had said it was bound to come. This old Kruger was
      in his dotage—why, he must be seventy-five if he was a day!

      (Nicholas was eighty-two.) What had Timothy said? He had had a
      fit after Majuba. These Boers were a grasping lot! The
      dark-haired Francie, who had arrived on his heels, with the
      contradictious touch which became the free spirit of a daughter
      of Roger, chimed in:

      “Kettle and pot, Uncle Nicholas. What price the Uitlanders?” What
      price, indeed! A new expression, and believed to be due to her
      brother George.

      Aunt Juley thought Francie ought not to say such a thing. Dear
      Mrs. MacAnder’s boy, Charlie MacAnder, was one, and no one could
      call him grasping. At this Francie uttered one of her _mots_,
      scandalising, and so frequently repeated:

      “Well, his father’s a Scotchman, and his mother’s a cat.”

      Aunt Juley covered her ears, too late, but Aunt Hester smiled; as
      for Nicholas, he pouted—witticism of which he was not the author
      was hardly to his taste. Just then Marian Tweetyman arrived,
      followed almost immediately by young Nicholas. On seeing his son,
      Nicholas rose.

      “Well, I must be going,” he said, “Nick here will tell you
      what’ll win the race.” And with this hit at his eldest, who, as a
      pillar of accountancy, and director of an insurance company, was
      no more addicted to sport than his father had ever been, he
      departed. Dear Nicholas! What race was that? Or was it only one
      of his jokes? He was a wonderful man for his age! How many lumps
      would dear Marian take? And how were Giles and Jesse? Aunt Juley
      supposed their Yeomanry would be very busy now, guarding the
      coast, though of course the Boers had no ships. But one never
      knew what the French might do if they had the chance, especially
      since that dreadful Fashoda scare, which had upset Timothy so
      terribly that he had made no investments for months afterwards.
      It was the ingratitude of the Boers that was so dreadful, after
      everything had been done for them—Dr. Jameson imprisoned, and he
      was so nice, Mrs. MacAnder had always said. And Sir Alfred Milner
      sent out to talk to them—such a clever man! She didn’t know what
      they wanted.

      But at this moment occurred one of those sensations—so precious
      at Timothy’s—which great occasions sometimes bring forth:

      “Miss June Forsyte.”

      Aunts Juley and Hester were on their feet at once, trembling from
      smothered resentment, and old affection bubbling up, and pride at
      the return of a prodigal June! Well, this _was_ a surprise! Dear
      June—after all these years! And how well she was looking! Not
      changed at all! It was almost on their lips to add, “And how is
      your dear grandfather?” forgetting in that giddy moment that poor
      dear Jolyon had been in his grave for seven years now.

      Ever the most courageous and downright of all the Forsytes, June,
      with her decided chin and her spirited eyes and her hair like
      flame, sat down, slight and short, on a gilt chair with a
      bead-worked seat, for all the world as if ten years had not
      elapsed since she had been to see them—ten years of travel and
      independence and devotion to lame ducks. Those ducks of late had
      been all definitely painters, etchers, or sculptors, so that her
      impatience with the Forsytes and their hopelessly inartistic
      outlook had become intense. Indeed, she had almost ceased to
      believe that her family existed, and looked round her now with a
      sort of challenging directness which brought exquisite discomfort
      to the roomful. She had not expected to meet any of them but “the
      poor old things”; and why she had come to see _them_ she hardly
      knew, except that, while on her way from Oxford Street to a
      studio in Latimer Road, she had suddenly remembered them with
      compunction as two long-neglected old lame ducks.

      Aunt Juley broke the hush again. “We’ve just been saying, dear,
      how dreadful it is about these Boers! And what an impudent thing
      of that old Kruger!”

      “Impudent!” said June. “I think he’s quite right. What business
      have we to meddle with them? If he turned out all those wretched
      Uitlanders it would serve them right. They’re only after money.”

      The silence of sensation was broken by Francie saying:

      “What? Are you a pro-Boer?” (undoubtedly the first use of that
      expression).

      “Well! Why can’t we leave them alone?” said June, just as, in the
      open doorway, the maid said “Mr. Soames Forsyte.” Sensation on
      sensation! Greeting was almost held up by curiosity to see how
