      conversation than that evening.

      A decision having been come to not to speak of Irene’s flight, no
      view was expressed by any other member of the family as to the
      right course to be pursued; there can be little doubt, from the
      general tone adopted in relation to events as they afterwards
      turned out, that James’s advice: “Don’t you listen to her, follow
      her and get her back!” would, with here and there an exception,
      have been regarded as sound, not only in Park Lane, but amongst
      the Nicholases, the Rogers, and at Timothy’s. Just as it would
      surely have been endorsed by that wider body of Forsytes all over
      London, who were merely excluded from judgment by ignorance of
      the story.

      In spite then of Emily’s efforts, the dinner was served by
      Warmson and the footman almost in silence. Dartie was sulky, and
      drank all he could get; the girls seldom talked to each other at
      any time. James asked once where June was, and what she was doing
      with herself in these days. No one could tell him. He sank back
      into gloom. Only when Winifred recounted how little Publius had
      given his bad penny to a beggar, did he brighten up.

      “Ah!” he said, “that’s a clever little chap. I don’t know what’ll
      become of him, if he goes on like this. An intelligent little
      chap, I call him!” But it was only a flash.

      The courses succeeded one another solemnly, under the electric
      light, which glared down onto the table, but barely reached the
      principal ornament of the walls, a so-called “Sea Piece by
      Turner,” almost entirely composed of cordage and drowning men.

      Champagne was handed, and then a bottle of James’ prehistoric
      port, but as by the chill hand of some skeleton.

      At ten o’clock Soames left; twice in reply to questions, he had
      said that Irene was not well; he felt he could no longer trust
      himself. His mother kissed him with her large soft kiss, and he
      pressed her hand, a flush of warmth in his cheeks. He walked away
      in the cold wind, which whistled desolately round the corners of
      the streets, under a sky of clear steel-blue, alive with stars;
      he noticed neither their frosty greeting, nor the crackle of the
      curled-up plane-leaves, nor the night-women hurrying in their
      shabby furs, nor the pinched faces of vagabonds at street
      corners. Winter was come! But Soames hastened home, oblivious;
      his hands trembled as he took the late letters from the gilt wire
      cage into which they had been thrust through the slit in the
      door.

      None from Irene!

      He went into the dining-room; the fire was bright there, his
      chair drawn up to it, slippers ready, spirit case, and carven
      cigarette box on the table; but after staring at it all for a
      minute or two, he turned out the light and went upstairs. There
      was a fire too in his dressing-room, but her room was dark and
      cold. It was into this room that Soames went.

      He made a great illumination with candles, and for a long time
      continued pacing up and down between the bed and the door. He
      could not get used to the thought that she had really left him,
      and as though still searching for some message, some reason, some
      reading of all the mystery of his married life, he began opening
      every recess and drawer.

      There were her dresses; he had always liked, indeed insisted,
      that she should be well-dressed—she had taken very few; two or
      three at most, and drawer after drawer; full of linen and silk
      things, was untouched.

      Perhaps after all it was only a freak, and she had gone to the
      seaside for a few days’ change. If only that were so, and she
      were really coming back, he would never again do as he had done
      that fatal night before last, never again run that risk—though it
      was her duty, her duty as a wife; though she did belong to him—he
      would never again run that risk; she was evidently not quite
      right in her head!

      He stooped over the drawer where she kept her jewels; it was not
      locked, and came open as he pulled; the jewel box had the key in
      it. This surprised him until he remembered that it was sure to be
      empty. He opened it.

      It was far from empty. Divided, in little green velvet
      compartments, were all the things he had given her, even her
      watch, and stuck into the recess that contained the watch was a
      three-cornered note addressed “Soames Forsyte,” in Irene’s
      handwriting:

      “I think I have taken nothing that you or your people have given
      me.” And that was all.

      He looked at the clasps and bracelets of diamonds and pearls, at
      the little flat gold watch with a great diamond set in sapphires,
      at the chains and rings, each in its nest, and the tears rushed
      up in his eyes and dropped upon them.

      Nothing that she could have done, nothing that she _had_ done,
      brought home to him like this the inner significance of her act.
      For the moment, perhaps, he understood nearly all there was to
      understand—understood that she loathed him, that she had loathed
      him for years, that for all intents and purposes they were like
      people living in different worlds, that there was no hope for
      him, never had been; even, that she had suffered—that she was to
      be pitied.

      In that moment of emotion he betrayed the Forsyte in him—forgot
      himself, his interests, his property—was capable of almost
      anything; was lifted into the pure ether of the selfless and
      unpractical.

      Such moments pass quickly.

      And as though with the tears he had purged himself of weakness,
      he got up, locked the box, and slowly, almost trembling, carried
      it with him into the other room.




      CHAPTER VII JUNE’S VICTORY

      June had waited for her chance, scanning the duller columns of
      the journals, morning and evening with an assiduity which at
      first puzzled old Jolyon; and when her chance came, she took it
      with all the promptitude and resolute tenacity of her character.

      She will always remember best in her life that morning when at
      last she saw amongst the reliable Cause List of the _Times_
      newspaper, under the heading of Court XIII, Mr. Justice Bentham,
      the case of Forsyte _v_. Bosinney.

      Like a gambler who stakes his last piece of money, she had
      prepared to hazard her all upon this throw; it was not her nature
      to contemplate defeat. How, unless with the instinct of a woman
      in love, she knew that Bosinney’s discomfiture in this action was
      assured, cannot be told—on this assumption, however, she laid her
      plans, as upon a certainty.

      Half past eleven found her at watch in the gallery of Court
      XIII., and there she remained till the case of Forsyte _v_.
      Bosinney was over. Bosinney’s absence did not disquiet her; she
      had felt instinctively that he would not defend himself. At the
      end of the judgment she hastened down, and took a cab to his
      rooms.

      She passed the open street-door and the offices on the three
      lower floors without attracting notice; not till she reached the
      top did her difficulties begin.

      Her ring was not answered; she had now to make up her mind
      whether she would go down and ask the caretaker in the basement
      to let her in to await Mr. Bosinney’s return, or remain patiently
      outside the door, trusting that no one would come up. She decided
      on the latter course.

      A quarter of an hour had passed in freezing vigil on the landing,
      before it occurred to her that Bosinney had been used to leave
      the key of his rooms under the door-mat. She looked and found it
      there. For some minutes she could not decide to make use of it;
      at last she let herself in and left the door open that anyone who
      came might see she was there on business.

      This was not the same June who had paid the trembling visit five
      months ago; those months of suffering and restraint had made her
      less sensitive; she had dwelt on this visit so long, with such
      minuteness, that its terrors were discounted beforehand. She was
      not there to fail this time, for if she failed no one could help
      her.

      Like some mother beast on the watch over her young, her little
      quick figure never stood still in that room, but wandered from
      wall to wall, from window to door, fingering now one thing, now
      another. There was dust everywhere, the room could not have been
      cleaned for weeks, and June, quick to catch at anything that
      should buoy up her hope, saw in it a sign that he had been
      obliged, for economy’s sake, to give up his servant.

      She looked into the bedroom; the bed was roughly made, as though
      by the hand of man. Listening intently, she darted in, and peered
      into his cupboards. A few shirts and collars, a pair of muddy
      boots—the room was bare even of garments.

      She stole back to the sitting-room, and now she noticed the
      absence of all the little things he had set store by. The clock
      that had been his mother’s, the field-glasses that had hung over
      the sofa; two really valuable old prints of Harrow, where his
      father had been at school, and last, not least, the piece of
      Japanese pottery she herself had given him. All were gone; and in
      spite of the rage roused within her championing soul at the
      thought that the world should treat him thus, their disappearance
      augured happily for the success of her plan.

      It was while looking at the spot where the piece of Japanese
      pottery had stood that she felt a strange certainty of being
      watched, and, turning, saw Irene in the open doorway.

      The two stood gazing at each other for a minute in silence; then
      June walked forward and held out her hand. Irene did not take it.

      When her hand was refused, June put it behind her. Her eyes grew
      steady with anger; she waited for Irene to speak; and thus
      waiting, took in, with who-knows-what rage of jealousy,
      suspicion, and curiosity, every detail of her friend’s face and
      dress and figure.

      Irene was clothed in her long grey fur; the travelling cap on her
      head left a wave of gold hair visible above her forehead. The
      soft fullness of the coat made her face as small as a child’s.

      Unlike Jun’s cheeks, her cheeks had no colour in them, but were
      ivory white and pinched as if with cold. Dark circles lay round
      her eyes. In one hand she held a bunch of violets.

      She looked back at June, no smile on her lips; and with those
      great dark eyes fastened on her, the girl, for all her startled
      anger, felt something of the old spell.

      She spoke first, after all.

      “What have you come for?” But the feeling that she herself was
      being asked the same question, made her add: “This horrible case.
      I came to tell him—he has lost it.”

      Irene did not speak, her eyes never moved from Jun’s face, and
      the girl cried:

      “Don’t stand there as if you were made of stone!”

      Irene laughed: “I wish to God I were!”

      But June turned away: “Stop!” she cried, “don’t tell me! I don’t
      want to hear! I don’t want to hear what you’ve come for. I don’t
      want to hear!” And like some uneasy spirit, she began swiftly
      walking to and fro. Suddenly she broke out:

      “I was here first. We can’t both stay here together!”

      On Irene’s face a smile wandered up, and died out like a flicker
      of firelight. She did not move. And then it was that June
      perceived under the softness and immobility of this figure
      something desperate and resolved; something not to be turned
      away, something dangerous. She tore off her hat, and, putting
      both hands to her brow, pressed back the bronze mass of her hair.

      “You have no right here!” she cried defiantly.

      Irene answered: “I have no right anywhere——”

      “What do you mean?”

      “I have left Soames. You always wanted me to!”

      June put her hands over her ears.

      “Don’t! I don’t want to hear anything—I don’t want to know
      anything. It’s impossible to fight with you! What makes you stand
      like that? Why don’t you go?”

      Irene’s lips moved; she seemed to be saying: “Where should I go?”

      June turned to the window. She could see the face of a clock down
      in the street. It was nearly four. At any moment he might come!
      She looked back across her shoulder, and her face was distorted
      with anger.

      But Irene had not moved; in her gloved hands she ceaselessly
      turned and twisted the little bunch of violets.

      The tears of rage and disappointment rolled down Jun’s cheeks.

      “How _could_ you come?” she said. “You have been a false friend
      to me!”

      Again Irene laughed. June saw that she had played a wrong card,
      and broke down.

      “Why have you come?” she sobbed. “You’ve ruined my life, and now
      you want to ruin his!”

      Irene’s mouth quivered; her eyes met Jun’s with a look so
      mournful that the girl cried out in the midst of her sobbing,
      “No, no!”

      But Irene’s head bent till it touched her breast. She turned, and
      went quickly out, hiding her lips with the little bunch of
      violets.

      June ran to the door. She heard the footsteps going down and
      down. She called out: “Come back, Irene! Come back!”

      The footsteps died away....

      Bewildered and torn, the girl stood at the top of the stairs. Why
      had Irene gone, leaving her mistress of the field? What did it
      mean? Had she really given him up to her? Or had she...? And she
      was the prey of a gnawing uncertainty.... Bosinney did not
      come....

      About six o’clock that afternoon old Jolyon returned from
      Wistaria Avenue, where now almost every day he spent some hours,
      and asked if his grand-daughter were upstairs. On being told that
      she had just come in, he sent up to her room to request her to
      come down and speak to him.

      He had made up his mind to tell her that he was reconciled with
      her father. In future bygones must be bygones. He would no longer
      live alone, or practically alone, in this great house; he was
      going to give it up, and take one in the country for his son,
      where they could all go and live together. If June did not like
      this, she could have an allowance and live by herself. It
      wouldn’t make much difference to her, for it was a long time
      since she had shown him any affection.

      But when June came down, her face was pinched and piteous; there
      was a strained, pathetic look in her eyes. She snuggled up in her
      old attitude on the arm of his chair, and what he said compared
      but poorly with the clear, authoritative, injured statement he
      had thought out with much care. His heart felt sore, as the great
      heart of a mother-bird feels sore when its youngling flies and
      bruises its wing. His words halted, as though he were apologizing
      for having at last deviated from the path of virtue, and
      succumbed, in defiance of sounder principles, to his more natural
      instincts.

      He seemed nervous lest, in thus announcing his intentions, he
      should be setting his granddaughter a bad example; and now that
      he came to the point, his way of putting the suggestion that, if
      she didn’t like it, she could live by herself and lump it, was
      delicate in the extreme.

      “And if, by any chance, my darling,” he said, “you found you
      didn’t get on—with them, why, I could make that all right. You
      could have what you liked. We could find a little flat in London
      where you could set up, and I could be running to continually.
      But the children,” he added, “are dear little things!”

      Then, in the midst of this grave, rather transparent, explanation
      of changed policy, his eyes twinkled. “This’ll astonish Timothy’s
      weak nerves. That precious young thing will have something to say
      about this, or I’m a Dutchman!”

      June had not yet spoken. Perched thus on the arm of his chair,
      with her head above him, her face was invisible. But presently he
      felt her warm cheek against his own, and knew that, at all
      events, there was nothing very alarming in her attitude towards
      his news. He began to take courage.

      “You’ll like your father,” he said—“an amiable chap. Never was
      much push about him, but easy to get on with. You’ll find him
      artistic and all that.”

      And old Jolyon bethought him of the dozen or so water-colour
      drawings all carefully locked up in his bedroom; for now that his
      son was going to become a man of property he did not think them
      quite such poor things as heretofore.

      “As to your—your stepmother,” he said, using the word with some
      little difficulty, “I call her a refined woman—a bit of a Mrs.
      Gummidge, I shouldn’t wonder—but very fond of Jo. And the
      children,” he repeated—indeed, this sentence ran like music
      through all his solemn self-justification—“are sweet little
      things!”

      If June had known, those words but reincarnated that tender love
      for little children, for the young and weak, which in the past
      had made him desert his son for her tiny self, and now, as the
      cycle rolled, was taking him from her.

      But he began to get alarmed at her silence, and asked
      impatiently: “Well, what do you say?”

      June slid down to his knee, and she in her turn began her tale.
      She thought it would all go splendidly; she did not see any
      difficulty, and she did not care a bit what people thought.

      Old Jolyon wriggled. H’m! then people _would_ think! He had
      thought that after all these years perhaps they wouldn’t! Well,
      he couldn’t help it! Nevertheless, he could not approve of his
      granddaughter’s way of putting it—she ought to mind what people
      thought!

      Yet he said nothing. His feelings were too mixed, too
      inconsistent for expression.

      No—went on June—she did not care; what business was it of theirs?
      There was only one thing—and with her cheek pressing against his
      knee, old Jolyon knew at once that this something was no trifle:
      As he was going to buy a house in the country, would he not—to
      please her—buy that splendid house of Soames’ at Robin Hill? It
      was finished, it was perfectly beautiful, and no one would live
      in it now. They would all be so happy there.

      Old Jolyon was on the alert at once. Wasn’t the “man of property”
      going to live in his new house, then? He never alluded to Soames
      now but under this title.

      “No”—June said—“he was not; she knew that he was not!”

      How did she know?

      She could not tell him, but she knew. She knew nearly for
      certain! It was most unlikely; circumstances had changed! Irene’s
      words still rang in her head: “I have left Soames. Where should I
      go?”

      But she kept silence about that.

      If her grandfather would only buy it and settle that wretched
      claim that ought never to have been made on Phil! It would be the
      very best thing for everybody, and everything—everything might
      come straight.

      And June put her lips to his forehead, and pressed them close.

      But old Jolyon freed himself from her caress, his face wore the
      judicial look which came upon it when he dealt with affairs. He
      asked: What did she mean? There was something behind all this—had
      she been seeing Bosinney?

      June answered: “No; but I have been to his rooms.”

      “Been to his rooms? Who took you there?”

      June faced him steadily. “I went alone. He has lost that case. I
      don’t care whether it was right or wrong. I want to help him; and
      _I will!_”

      Old Jolyon asked again: “Have you seen him?” His glance seemed to
      pierce right through the girl’s eyes into her soul.

      Again June answered: “No; he was not there. I waited, but he did
      not come.”

      Old Jolyon made a movement of relief. She had risen and looked
      down at him; so slight, and light, and young, but so fixed, and
      so determined; and disturbed, vexed, as he was, he could not
      frown away that fixed look. The feeling of being beaten, of the
      reins having slipped, of being old and tired, mastered him.

      “Ah!” he said at last, “you’ll get yourself into a mess one of
      these days, I can see. You want your own way in everything.”

      Visited by one of his strange bursts of philosophy, he added:
      “Like that you were born; and like that you’ll stay until you
      die!”

      And he, who in his dealings with men of business, with Boards,
      with Forsytes of all descriptions, with such as were not
      Forsytes, had always had his own way, looked at his indomitable
      grandchild sadly—for he felt in her that quality which above all
      others he unconsciously admired.

      “Do you know what they say is going on?” he said slowly.

      June crimsoned.

      “Yes—no! I know—and I don’t know—I don’t care!” and she stamped
      her foot.

      “I believe,” said old Jolyon, dropping his eyes, “that you’d have
      him if he were dead!”

      There was a long silence before he spoke again.

      “But as to buying this house—you don’t know what you’re talking
      about!”

      June said that she did. She knew that he could get it if he
      wanted. He would only have to give what it cost.

      “What it cost! You know nothing about it. I won’t go to
      Soames—I’ll have nothing more to do with that young man.”

      “But you needn’t; you can go to Uncle James. If you can’t buy the
      house, will you pay his lawsuit claim? I know he is terribly hard
      up—I’ve seen it. You can stop it out of my money!”

      A twinkle came into old Jolyon’s eyes.

      “Stop it out of your money! A pretty way. And what will you do,
      pray, without your money?”

      But secretly, the idea of wresting the house from James and his
      son had begun to take hold of him. He had heard on Forsyte
      ’Change much comment, much rather doubtful praise of this house.
      It was “too artistic,” but a fine place. To take from the “man of
      property” that on which he had set his heart, would be a crowning
      triumph over James, practical proof that he was going to make a
      man of property of Jo, to put him back in his proper position,
      and there to keep him secure. Justice once for all on those who
      had chosen to regard his son as a poor, penniless outcast.

      He would see, he would see! It might be out of the question; he
      was not going to pay a fancy price, but if it could be done, why,
      perhaps he would do it!

      And still more secretly he knew that he could not refuse her.

      But he did not commit himself. He would think it over—he said to
      June.




      CHAPTER VIII BOSINNEY’S DEPARTURE

      Old Jolyon was not given to hasty decisions; it is probable that
      he would have continued to think over the purchase of the house
      at Robin Hill, had not Jun’s face told him that he would have no
      peace until he acted.

      At breakfast next morning she asked him what time she should
      order the carriage.

      “Carriage!” he said, with some appearance of innocence; “what
      for? _I’m_ not going out!”

      She answered: “If you don’t go early, you won’t catch Uncle James
      before he goes into the City.”

      “James! what about your Uncle James?”

      “The house,” she replied, in such a voice that he no longer
      pretended ignorance.

      “I’ve not made up my mind,” he said.

      “You must! You must! Oh! Gran—think of me!”

      Old Jolyon grumbled out: “Think of you—I’m always thinking of
      you, but you don’t think of yourself; you don’t think what you’re
      letting yourself in for. Well, order the carriage at ten!”

      At a quarter past he was placing his umbrella in the stand at
      Park Lane—he did not choose to relinquish his hat and coat;
      telling Warmson that he wanted to see his master, he went,
      without being announced, into the study, and sat down.

      James was still in the dining-room talking to Soames, who had
      come round again before breakfast. On hearing who his visitor
      was, he muttered nervously: “Now, what’s _he_ want, I wonder?”

      He then got up.

      “Well,” he said to Soames, “don’t you go doing anything in a
      hurry. The first thing is to find out where she is—I should go to
      Stainer’s about it; they’re the best men, if they can’t find her,
      nobody can.” And suddenly moved to strange softness, he muttered
      to himself, “Poor little thing, _I_ can’t tell what she was
      thinking about!” and went out blowing his nose.

      Old Jolyon did not rise on seeing his brother, but held out his
      hand, and exchanged with him the clasp of a Forsyte.

      James took another chair by the table, and leaned his head on his
      hand.

      “Well,” he said, “how are you? We don’t see much of _you_
      nowadays!”

      Old Jolyon paid no attention to the remark.

      “How’s Emily?” he asked; and waiting for no reply, went on “I’ve
      come to see you about this affair of young Bosinney’s. I’m told
      that new house of his is a white elephant.”

      “I don’t know anything about a white elephant,” said James, “I
      know he’s lost his case, and I should say he’ll go bankrupt.”

      Old Jolyon was not slow to seize the opportunity this gave him.

      “I shouldn’t wonder a bit!” he agreed; “and if he goes bankrupt,
      the ‘man of property’—that is, Soames’ll be out of pocket. Now,
      what I was thinking was this: If he’s not going to live
      there....”

      Seeing both surprise and suspicion in James’ eye, he quickly went
      on: “I don’t want to know anything; I suppose Irene’s put her
      foot down—it’s not material to me. But I’m thinking of a house in
      the country myself, not too far from London, and if it suited me
      I don’t say that I mightn’t look at it, at a price.”

      James listened to this statement with a strange mixture of doubt,
      suspicion, and relief, merging into a dread of something behind,
      and tinged with the remains of his old undoubted reliance upon
      his elder brother’s good faith and judgment. There was anxiety,
      too, as to what old Jolyon could have heard and how he had heard
      it; and a sort of hopefulness arising from the thought that if
      Jun’s connection with Bosinney were completely at an end, her
      grandfather would hardly seem anxious to help the young fellow.
      Altogether he was puzzled; as he did not like either to show
      this, or to commit himself in any way, he said:

      “They tell me you’re altering your Will in favour of your son.”

      He had not been told this; he had merely added the fact of having
      seen old Jolyon with his son and grandchildren to the fact that
      he had taken his Will away from Forsyte, Bustard and Forsyte. The
      shot went home.

      “Who told you that?” asked old Jolyon.

      “I’m sure I don’t know,” said James; “I can’t remember names—I
      know somebody told me Soames spent a lot of money on this house;
      he’s not likely to part with it except at a good price.”

      “Well,” said old Jolyon, “if, he thinks I’m going to pay a fancy
      price, he’s mistaken. I’ve not got the money to throw away that
      he seems to have. Let him try and sell it at a forced sale, and
      see what he’ll get. It’s not every man’s house, I hear!”

      James, who was secretly also of this opinion, answered: “It’s a
      gentleman’s house. Soames is here now if you’d like to see him.”

      “No,” said old Jolyon, “I haven’t got as far as that; and I’m not
      likely to, I can see that very well if I’m met in this manner!”

      James was a little cowed; when it came to the actual figures of a
      commercial transaction he was sure of himself, for then he was
      dealing with facts, not with men; but preliminary negotiations
      such as these made him nervous—he never knew quite how far he
      could go.

      “Well,” he said, “I know nothing about it. Soames, he tells me
      nothing; I should think he’d entertain it—it’s a question of
      price.”

      “Oh!” said old Jolyon, “don’t let him make a favour of it!” He
      placed his hat on his head in dudgeon.

      The door was opened and Soames came in.

      “There’s a policeman out here,” he said with his half smile, “for
      Uncle Jolyon.”

      Old Jolyon looked at him angrily, and James said: “A policeman? I
      don’t know anything about a policeman. But I suppose you know
      something about him,” he added to old Jolyon with a look of
      suspicion: “I suppose you’d better see him!”

      In the hall an Inspector of Police stood stolidly regarding with
      heavy-lidded pale-blue eyes the fine old English furniture picked
      up by James at the famous Mavrojano sale in Portman Square.
      “You’ll find my brother in there,” said James.

      The Inspector raised his fingers respectfully to his peaked cap,
      and entered the study.

      James saw him go in with a strange sensation.

      “Well,” he said to Soames, “I suppose we must wait and see what
      he wants. Your uncle’s been here about the house!”

      He returned with Soames into the dining-room, but could not rest.

      “Now what _does_ he want?” he murmured again.

      “Who?” replied Soames: “the Inspector? They sent him round from
      Stanhope Gate, that’s all I know. That ‘nonconformist’ of Uncle
      Jolyon’s has been pilfering, I shouldn’t wonder!”

      But in spite of his calmness, he too was ill at ease.

      At the end of ten minutes old Jolyon came in. He walked up to the
      table, and stood there perfectly silent pulling at his long white
      moustaches. James gazed up at him with opening mouth; he had
      never seen his brother look like this.

      Old Jolyon raised his hand, and said slowly:

      “Young Bosinney has been run over in the fog and killed.”

      Then standing above his brother and his nephew, and looking down
      at him with his deep eyes:

      “There’s—some—talk—of—suicide,” he said.

      James’ jaw dropped. “_Suicide!_ What should he do that for?”

      Old Jolyon answered sternly: “God knows, if you and your son
      don’t!”

      But James did not reply.

      For all men of great age, even for all Forsytes, life has had
      bitter experiences. The passer-by, who sees them wrapped in
      cloaks of custom, wealth, and comfort, would never suspect that
      such black shadows had fallen on their roads. To every man of
      great age—to Sir Walter Bentham himself—the idea of suicide has
      once at least been present in the ante-room of his soul; on the
      threshold, waiting to enter, held out from the inmost chamber by
      some chance reality, some vague fear, some painful hope. To
      Forsytes that final renunciation of property is hard. Oh! it is
      hard! Seldom—perhaps never—can they achieve, it; and yet, how
      near have they not sometimes been!

      So even with James! Then in the medley of his thoughts, he broke
      out: “Why I saw it in the paper yesterday: ‘Run over in the fog!’
      They didn’t know his name!” He turned from one face to the other
      in his confusion of soul; but instinctively all the time he was
      rejecting that rumour of suicide. He dared not entertain this
      thought, so against his interest, against the interest of his
      son, of every Forsyte. He strove against it; and as his nature
      ever unconsciously rejected that which it could not with safety
      accept, so gradually he overcame this fear. It was an accident!
      It must have been!

      Old Jolyon broke in on his reverie.

      “Death was instantaneous. He lay all day yesterday at the
      hospital. There was nothing to tell them who he was. I am going
      there now; you and your son had better come too.”

      No one opposing this command he led the way from the room.

      The day was still and clear and bright, and driving over to Park
      Lane from Stanhope Gate, old Jolyon had had the carriage open.
      Sitting back on the padded cushions, finishing his cigar, he had
      noticed with pleasure the keen crispness of the air, the bustle
      of the cabs and people; the strange, almost Parisian, alacrity
      that the first fine day will bring into London streets after a
      spell of fog or rain. And he had felt so happy; he had not felt
      like it for months. His confession to June was off his mind; he
      had the prospect of his son’s, above all, of his grandchildren’s
      company in the future—(he had appointed to meet young Jolyon at
      the Hotch Potch that very morning to discuss it again); and there
      was the pleasurable excitement of a coming encounter, a coming
      victory, over James and the “man of property” in the matter of
      the house.

      He had the carriage closed now; he had no heart to look on
      gaiety; nor was it right that Forsytes should be seen driving
      with an Inspector of Police.

      In that carriage the Inspector spoke again of the death:

      “It was not so very thick—Just there. The driver says the
      gentleman must have had time to see what he was about, he seemed
      to walk right into it. It appears that he was very hard up, we
      found several pawn tickets at his rooms, his account at the bank
      is overdrawn, and there’s this case in to-day’s papers;” his cold
      blue eyes travelled from one to another of the three Forsytes in
      the carriage.

      Old Jolyon watching from his corner saw his brother’s face
      change, and the brooding, worried, look deepen on it. At the
      Inspector’s words, indeed, all James’ doubts and fears revived.
      Hard-up—pawn-tickets—an overdrawn account! These words that had
      all his life been a far-off nightmare to him, seemed to make
      uncannily real that suspicion of suicide which must on no account
      be entertained. He sought his son’s eye; but lynx-eyed, taciturn,
      immovable, Soames gave no answering look. And to old Jolyon
      watching, divining the league of mutual defence between them,
      there came an overmastering desire to have his own son at his
      side, as though this visit to the dead man’s body was a battle in
      which otherwise he must single-handed meet those two. And the
      thought of how to keep Jun’s name out of the business kept
      whirring in his brain. James had his son to support him! Why
      should he not send for Jo?

      Taking out his card-case, he pencilled the following message:

      “Come round at once. I’ve sent the carriage for you.”

      On getting out he gave this card to his coachman, telling him to
      drive—as fast as possible to the Hotch Potch Club, and if Mr.
      Jolyon Forsyte were there to give him the card and bring him at
      once. If not there yet, he was to wait till he came.

      He followed the others slowly up the steps, leaning on his
      umbrella, and stood a moment to get his breath. The Inspector
      said: “This is the mortuary, sir. But take your time.”

      In the bare, white-walled room, empty of all but a streak of
      sunshine smeared along the dustless floor, lay a form covered by
      a sheet. With a huge steady hand the Inspector took the hem and
      turned it back. A sightless face gazed up at them, and on either
      side of that sightless defiant face the three Forsytes gazed
      down; in each one of them the secret emotions, fears, and pity of
      his own nature rose and fell like the rising, falling waves of
      life, whose wash those white walls barred out now for ever from
      Bosinney. And in each one of them the trend of his nature, the
      odd essential spring, which moved him in fashions minutely,
      unalterably different from those of every other human being,
      forced him to a different attitude of thought. Far from the
      others, yet inscrutably close, each stood thus, alone with death,
      silent, his eyes lowered.

      The Inspector asked softly:

      “You identify the gentleman, sir?”

      Old Jolyon raised his head and nodded. He looked at his brother
      opposite, at that long lean figure brooding over the dead man,
      with face dusky red, and strained grey eyes; and at the figure of
      Soames white and still by his father’s side. And all that he had
      felt against those two was gone like smoke in the long white
      presence of Death. Whence comes it, how comes it—Death? Sudden
      reverse of all that goes before; blind setting forth on a path
      that leads to where? Dark quenching of the fire! The heavy,
      brutal crushing-out that all men must go through, keeping their
      eyes clear and brave unto the end! Small and of no import,
      insects though they are! And across old Jolyon’s face there
      flitted a gleam, for Soames, murmuring to the Inspector, crept
      noiselessly away.

      Then suddenly James raised his eyes. There was a queer appeal in
      that suspicious troubled look: “I know I’m no match for you,” it
      seemed to say. And, hunting for handkerchief he wiped his brow;
      then, bending sorrowful and lank over the dead man, he too turned
      and hurried out.

      Old Jolyon stood, still as death, his eyes fixed on the body. Who
      shall tell of what he was thinking? Of himself, when his hair was
      brown like the hair of that young fellow dead before him? Of
      himself, with his battle just beginning, the long, long battle he
      had loved; the battle that was over for this young man almost
      before it had begun? Of his grand-daughter, with her broken
      hopes? Of that other woman? Of the strangeness, and the pity of
      it? And the irony, inscrutable, and bitter of that end? Justice!
      There was no justice for men, for they were ever in the dark!

      Or perhaps in his philosophy he thought: Better to be out of it
      all! Better to have done with it, like this poor youth....

      Some one touched him on the arm.

      A tear started up and wetted his eyelash. “Well,” he said, “I’m
      no good here. I’d better be going. You’ll come to me as soon as
      you can, Jo,” and with his head bowed he went away.

      It was young Jolyon’s turn to take his stand beside the dead man,
      round whose fallen body he seemed to see all the Forsytes
      breathless, and prostrated. The stroke had fallen too swiftly.

      The forces underlying every tragedy—forces that take no denial,
      working through cross currents to their ironical end, had met and
      fused with a thunder-clap, flung out the victim, and flattened to
      the ground all those that stood around.

      Or so at all events young Jolyon seemed to see them, lying around
      Bosinney’s body.

      He asked the Inspector to tell him what had happened, and the
      latter, like a man who does not every day get such a chance,
      again detailed such facts as were known.

      “There’s more here, sir, however,” he said, “than meets the eye.
      I don’t believe in suicide, nor in pure accident, myself. It’s
      more likely I think that he was suffering under great stress of
      mind, and took no notice of things about him. Perhaps you can
      throw some light on these.”

      He took from his pocket a little packet and laid it on the table.
      Carefully undoing it, he revealed a lady’s handkerchief, pinned
      through the folds with a pin of discoloured Venetian gold, the
      stone of which had fallen from the socket. A scent of dried
      violets rose to young Jolyon’s nostrils.

      “Found in his breast pocket,” said the Inspector; “the name has
      been cut away!”

      Young Jolyon with difficulty answered: “I’m afraid I cannot help
      you!” But vividly there rose before him the face he had seen
      light up, so tremulous and glad, at Bosinney’s coming! Of her he
      thought more than of his own daughter, more than of them all—of
      her with the dark, soft glance, the delicate passive face,
      waiting for the dead man, waiting even at that moment, perhaps,
      still and patient in the sunlight.

      He walked sorrowfully away from the hospital towards his father’s
      house, reflecting that this death would break up the Forsyte
      family. The stroke had indeed slipped past their defences into
      the very wood of their tree. They might flourish to all
      appearance as before, preserving a brave show before the eyes of
      London, but the trunk was dead, withered by the same flash that
      had stricken down Bosinney. And now the saplings would take its
      place, each one a new custodian of the sense of property.

      Good forest of Forsytes! thought young Jolyon—soundest timber of
      our land!

      Concerning the cause of this death—his family would doubtless
      reject with vigour the suspicion of suicide, which was so
      compromising! They would take it as an accident, a stroke of
      fate. In their hearts they would even feel it an intervention of
      Providence, a retribution—had not Bosinney endangered their two
      most priceless possessions, the pocket and the hearth? And they
      would talk of “that unfortunate accident of young Bosinney’s,”
      but perhaps they would not talk—silence might be better!

      As for himself, he regarded the bus-driver’s account of the
      accident as of very little value. For no one so madly in love
      committed suicide for want of money; nor was Bosinney the sort of
      fellow to set much store by a financial crisis. And so he too,
      rejected this theory of suicide, the dead man’s face rose too
      clearly before him. Gone in the heyday of his summer—and to
      believe thus that an accident had cut Bosinney off in the full
      sweep of his passion was more than ever pitiful to young Jolyon.

      Then came a vision of Soames’ home as it now was, and must be
      hereafter. The streak of lightning had flashed its clear uncanny
      gleam on bare bones with grinning spaces between, the disguising
      flesh was gone....

      In the dining-room at Stanhope Gate old Jolyon was sitting alone
      when his son came in. He looked very wan in his great armchair.
      And his eyes travelling round the walls with their pictures of
      still life, and the masterpiece “Dutch fishing-boats at Sunset”
      seemed as though passing their gaze over his life with its hopes,
      its gains, its achievements.

      “Ah! Jo!” he said, “is that you? I’ve told poor little June. But
      that’s not all of it. Are you going to Soames’? _She’s_ brought
      it on herself, I suppose; but somehow I can’t bear to think of
      her, shut up there—and all alone.” And holding up his thin,
      veined hand, he clenched it.




      CHAPTER IX IRENE’S RETURN

      After leaving James and old Jolyon in the mortuary of the
      hospital, Soames hurried aimlessly along the streets.

      The tragic event of Bosinney’s death altered the complexion of
      everything. There was no longer the same feeling that to lose a
      minute would be fatal, nor would he now risk communicating the
      fact of his wife’s flight to anyone till the inquest was over.

      That morning he had risen early, before the postman came, had
      taken the first-post letters from the box himself, and, though
      there had been none from Irene, he had made an opportunity of
      telling Bilson that her mistress was at the sea; he would
      probably, he said, be going down himself from Saturday to Monday.
      This had given him time to breathe, time to leave no stone
      unturned to find her.

      But now, cut off from taking steps by Bosinney’s death—that
      strange death, to think of which was like putting a hot iron to
      his heart, like lifting a great weight from it—he did not know
      how to pass his day; and he wandered here and there through the
      streets, looking at every face he met, devoured by a hundred
      anxieties.

      And as he wandered, he thought of him who had finished his
      wandering, his prowling, and would never haunt his house again.

      Already in the afternoon he passed posters announcing the
      identity of the dead man, and bought the papers to see what they
      said. He would stop their mouths if he could, and he went into
      the City, and was closeted with Boulter for a long time.

      On his way home, passing the steps of Jobson’s about half past
      four, he met George Forsyte, who held out an evening paper to
      Soames, saying:

      “Here! Have you seen this about the poor Buccaneer?”

      Soames answered stonily: “Yes.”

      George stared at him. He had never liked Soames; he now held him
      responsible for Bosinney’s death. Soames had done for him—done
      for him by that act of property that had sent the Buccaneer to
      run amok that fatal afternoon.

      “The poor fellow,” he was thinking, “was so cracked with
      jealousy, so cracked for his vengeance, that he heard nothing of
      the omnibus in that infernal fog.”

      Soames had done for him! And this judgment was in George’s eyes.

      “They talk of suicide here,” he said at last. “_That_ cat won’t
      jump.”

      Soames shook his head. “An accident,” he muttered.

      Clenching his fist on the paper, George crammed it into his
      pocket. He could not resist a parting shot.

      “H’mm! All flourishing at home? Any little Soameses yet?”

      With a face as white as the steps of Jobson’s, and a lip raised
      as if snarling, Soames brushed past him and was gone....

      On reaching home, and entering the little lighted hall with his
      latchkey, the first thing that caught his eye was his wife’s
      gold-mounted umbrella lying on the rug chest. Flinging off his
      fur coat, he hurried to the drawing-room.

      The curtains were drawn for the night, a bright fire of
      cedar-logs burned in the grate, and by its light he saw Irene
      sitting in her usual corner on the sofa. He shut the door softly,
      and went towards her. She did not move, and did not seem to see
      him.

      “So you’ve come back?” he said. “Why are you sitting here in the
      dark?”

