

“The law’s on your side,” said Lupin quietly. “Even 
underage wizards are allowed to use magic in life- 
threatening situations.” 

Something very cold trickled down the back of Harry’s 
neck; for a moment he thought someone was putting 
a Disillusionment Charm on him again, then he 
realized that Mrs. Weasley was attacking his hair with 
a wet comb. She pressed hard on the top of his head. 

“Doesn’t it ever lie flat?” she said desperately. 

Harry shook his head. 

Mr. Weasley checked his watch and looked up at 
Harry. 

“I think we’ll go now,” he said. “We’re a bit early, but I 
think you’ll be better off there than hanging around 
here.” 

“Okay,” said Harry automatically, dropping his toast 
and getting to his feet. 

“You’ll be all right, Harry,” said Tonks, patting him on 
the arm. 

“Good luck,” said Lupin. “I’m sure it will be fine.” 

“And if it’s not,” said Sirius grimly, “I’ll see to Amelia 
Bones for you...” 

Harry smiled weakly. Mrs. Weasley hugged him. 

“We’ve all got our fingers crossed,” she said. 

“Right,” said Harry. “Well ... see you later then.” 



Page | 159Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He followed Mr. Weasley upstairs and along the hall. 
He could hear Sirius’s mother grunting in her sleep 
behind her curtains. Mr. Weasley unbolted the door 
and they stepped out into the cold, gray dawn. 

“You don’t normally walk to work, do you?” Harry 
asked him, as they set off briskly around the square. 

“No, I usually Apparate,” said Mr. Weasley, “but 
obviously you can’t, and I think it’s best we arrive in a 
thoroughly non-magical fashion . . . makes a better 
impression, given what you’re being disciplined for...” 

Mr. Weasley kept his hand inside his jacket as they 
walked. Harry knew it was clenched around his wand. 
The run-down streets were almost deserted, but when 
they arrived at the miserable little Underground 
station they found it already full of early morning 
commuters. As ever when he found himself in close 
proximity to Muggles going about their daily business, 
Mr. Weasley was hard put to contain his enthusiasm. 

“Simply fabulous,” he whispered, indicating the 
automatic ticket machines. “Wonderfully ingenious.” 

“They’re out of order,” said Harry, pointing at the 
sign. 

“Yes, but even so ...” said Mr. Weasley, beaming 
fondly at them. 

They bought their tickets instead from a sleepy- 
looking guard (Harry handled the transaction, as Mr. 
Weasley was not very good with Muggle money) and 
five minutes later they were boarding an Underground 
train that rattled them off toward the center of 
London. Mr. Weasley kept anxiously checking and 
rechecking the Underground map above the windows. 



Page | 160Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Four stops, Harry ... three stops left now ... two 
stops to go, Harry ...” 

They got off at a station in the very heart of London, 
swept from the train in a tide of besuited men and 
women carrying briefcases. Up the escalator they 
went, through the ticket barrier (Mr. Weasley 
delighted with the way the stile swallowed his ticket), 
and emerged onto a broad street lined with imposing- 
looking buildings, already full of traffic. 

“Where are we?” said Mr. Weasley blankly, and for 
one heart-stopping moment Harry thought they had 
gotten off at the wrong station despite Mr. Weasley’s 
continual references to the map; but a second later he 
said, “Ah yes ... this way, Harry,” and led him down a 
side road. 

“Sorry,” he said, “but I never come by train and it all 
looks rather different from a Muggle perspective. As a 
matter of fact I’ve never even used the visitor’s 
entrance before.” 

The farther they walked, the smaller and less 
imposing the buildings became, until finally they 
reached a street that contained several rather 
shabby-looking offices, a pub, and an overflowing 
dumpster. Harry had expected a rather more 
impressive location for the Ministry of Magic. 

“Here we are,” said Mr. Weasley brightly, pointing at 
an old red telephone box, which was missing several 
panes of glass and stood before a heavily graffittied 
wall. “After you, Harry.” 

He opened the telephone box door. 

Harry stepped inside, wondering what on earth this 
was about. Mr. Weasley folded himself in beside Harry 

Page | 161Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and closed the door. It was a tight fit; Harry was 
jammed against the telephone apparatus, which was 
hanging crookedly from the wall as though a vandal 
had tried to rip it off. Mr. Weasley reached past Harry 
for the receiver. 

“Mr. Weasley, I think this might be out of order too,” 
Harry said. 

“No, no, I’m sure it’s fine,” said Mr. Weasley, holding 
the receiver above his head and peering at the dial. 
“Let’s see ... six ...” he dialed the number, “two ... four 
... and another four ... and another two ...” 

As the dial whirred smoothly back into place, a cool 
female voice sounded inside the telephone box, not 
from the receiver in Mr. Weasley’s hand, but as loudly 
and plainly as though an invisible woman were 
standing right beside them. 

“Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your 
name and business.” 

“Er ...” said Mr. Weasley, clearly uncertain whether he 
should talk into the receiver or not; he compromised 
by holding the mouthpiece to his ear, “Arthur 
Weasley, Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office, here to 
escort Harry Potter, who has been asked to attend a 
disciplinary hearing...” 

“Thank you,” said the cool female voice. “Visitor, 
please take the badge and attach it to the front of 
your robes.” 

There was a click and a rattle, and Harry saw 
something slide out of the metal chute where 
returned coins usually appeared. He picked it up: It 
was a square silver badge with Harry Potter, 



Page | 162Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Disciplinary Hearing on it. He pinned it to the front of 
his T-shirt as the female voice spoke again. 

“Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to 
a search and present your wand for registration at the 
security desk, which is located at the far end of the 
Atrium.” 

The floor of the telephone box shuddered. They were 
sinking slowly into the ground. Harry watched 
apprehensively as the pavement rose up past the 
glass windows of the telephone box until darkness 
closed over their heads. Then he could see nothing at 
all; he could only hear a dull grinding noise as the 
telephone box made its way down through the earth. 
After about a minute, though it felt much longer to 
Harry, a chink of golden light illuminated his feet 
and, widening, rose up his body, until it hit him in 
the face and he had to blink to stop his eyes from 
watering. 

“The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant day,” 
said the woman’s voice. 

The door of the telephone box sprang open and Mr. 
Weasley stepped out of it, followed by Harry, whose 
mouth had fallen open. 

They were standing at one end of a very long and 
splendid hall with a highly polished, dark wood floor. 
The peacock-blue ceiling was inlaid with gleaming 
golden symbols that were continually moving and 
changing like some enormous heavenly notice board. 
The walls on each side were paneled in shiny dark 
wood and had many gilded fireplaces set into them. 
Every few seconds a witch or wizard would emerge 
from one of the left-hand fireplaces with a soft 
whoosh ; on the right-hand side, short queues of 



Page | 163Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wizards were forming before each fireplace, waiting to 
depart. 

Halfway down the hall was a fountain. A group of 
golden statues, larger than life-size, stood in the 
middle of a circular pool. Tallest of them all was a 
noble-looking wizard with his wand pointing straight 
up in the air. Grouped around him were a beautiful 
witch, a centaur, a goblin, and a house-elf. The last 
three were all looking adoringly up at the witch and 
wizard. Glittering jets of water were flying from the 
ends of the two wands, the point of the centaur’s 
arrow, the tip of the goblin’s hat, and each of the 
house-elf’s ears, so that the tinkling hiss of falling 
water was added to the pops and cracks of 
Apparators and the clatter of footsteps as hundreds of 
witches and wizards, most of whom were wearing 
glum, early-morning looks, strode toward a set of 
golden gates at the far end of the hall. 

“This way,” said Mr. Weasley. 

They joined the throng, wending their way between 
the Ministry workers, some of whom were carrying 
tottering piles of parchment, others battered 
briefcases, still others reading the Daily Prophet as 
they walked. As they passed the fountain Harry saw 
silver Sickles and bronze Knuts glinting up at him 
from the bottom of the pool. A small, smudged sign 
beside it read: 

All proceeds from the Fountain of Magical Brethren will 
be given to 

St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries 

If I’m not expelled from Hogwarts, I’ll put in ten 
Galleons, Harry found himself thinking desperately. 



Page | 164Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Over here, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, and they 
stepped out of the stream of Ministry employees 
heading for the golden gates, toward a desk on the 
left, over which hung a sign saying SECURITY. A 
badly shaven wizard in peacock-blue robes looked up 
as they approached and put down his Daily Prophet. 

“I’m escorting a visitor,” said Mr. Weasley, gesturing 
toward Harry. 

“Step over here,” said the wizard in a bored voice. 

Harry walked closer to him and the wizard held up a 
long golden rod, thin and flexible as a car aerial, and 
passed it up and down Harry’s front and back. 

“Wand,” grunted the security wizard at Harry, putting 
down the golden instrument and holding out his 
hand. 

Harry produced his wand. The wizard dropped it onto 
a strange brass instrument, which looked something 
like a set of scales with only one dish. It began to 
vibrate. A narrow strip of parchment came speeding 
out of a slit in the base. The wizard tore this off and 
read the writing upon it. 

“Eleven inches, phoenix-feather core, been in use four 
years. That correct?” 

“Yes,” said Harry nervously. 

“I keep this,” said the wizard, impaling the slip of 
parchment on a small brass spike. “You get this 
back,” he added, thrusting the wand at Harry. 

“Thank you.” 

“Hang on...” said the wizard slowly. 

Page | 165Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




His eyes had darted from the silver visitor’s badge on 
Harry’s chest to his forehead. 

“Thank you, Eric,” said Mr. Weasley firmly, and 
grasping Harry by the shoulder, he steered him away 
from the desk and back into the stream of wizards 
and witches walking through the golden gates. 

Jostled slightly by the crowd, Harry followed Mr. 
Weasley through the gates into the smaller hall 
beyond, where at least twenty lifts stood behind 
wrought golden grilles. Harry and Mr. Weasley joined 
the crowd around one of them. A big, bearded wizard 
holding a large cardboard box stood nearby. The box 
was emitting rasping noises. 

“All right, Arthur?” said the wizard, nodding at Mr. 
Weasley. 

“What’ve you got there, Bob?” asked Mr. Weasley, 
looking at the box. 

“We’re not sure,” said the wizard seriously. “We 
thought it was a bog-standard chicken until it started 
breathing fire. Looks like a serious breach of the Ban 
on Experimental Breeding to me.” 

With a great jangling and clattering a lift descended in 
front of them; the golden grille slid back and Harry 
and Mr. Weasley moved inside it with the rest of the 
crowd. Harry found himself jammed against the back 
wall of the lift. Several witches and wizards were 
looking at him curiously; he stared at his feet to avoid 
catching anyone’s eye, flattening his fringe as he did 
so. The grilles slid shut with a crash and the lift 
ascended slowly, chains rattling all the while, while 
the same cool female voice Harry had heard in the 
telephone box rang out again. 



Page | 166Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Level seven, Department of Magical Games and 
Sports, incorporating the British and Irish Quidditch 
League Headquarters, Official Gobstones Club, and 
Ludicrous Patents Office.” 

The lift doors opened; Harry glimpsed an untidy- 
looking corridor, with various posters of Quidditch 
teams tacked lopsidedly on the walls; one of the 
wizards in the lift, who was carrying an armful of 
broomsticks, extricated himself with difficulty and 
disappeared down the corridor. The doors closed, the 
lift juddered upward again, and the woman’s voice 
said, “Level six, Department of Magical Transport, 
incorporating the Floo Network Authority, Broom 
Regulatory Control, Portkey Office, and Apparation 
Test Center.” 

Once again the lift doors opened and four or five 
witches and wizards got out; at the same time, several 
paper airplanes swooped into the lift. Harry stared up 
at them as they flapped idly around above his head; 
they were a pale violet color and he could see 
MINISTRY OF MAGIC stamped along the edges of 
their wings. 

“Just Interdepartmental memos,” Mr. Weasley 
muttered to him. “We used to use owls, but the mess 
was unbelievable ... droppings all over the desks ...” 

As they clattered upward again, the memos flapped 
around the swaying lamp in the lift’s ceiling. 

“Level five, Department of International Magical 
Cooperation, incorporating the International Magical 
Trading Standards Body, the International Magical 
Office of Law, and the International Confederation of 
Wizards, British Seats.” 



Page | 167Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




When the doors opened, two of the memos zoomed 
out with a few more witches and wizards, but several 
more memos zoomed in, so that the light from the 
lamp in the ceiling flickered and flashed as they 
darted around it. 

“Level four, Department for the Regulation and 
Control of Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, 
Being, and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liaison Office, and 
Pest Advisory Bureau.” 

“ ’S’cuse,” said the wizard carrying the fire-breathing 
chicken and he left the lift pursued by a little flock of 
memos. The doors clanged shut yet again. 

“Level three, Department of Magical Accidents and 
Catastrophes, including the Accidental Magic 
Reversal Squad, Obliviator Headquarters, and 
Muggle-Worthy Excuse Committee.” 

Everybody left the lift on this floor except Mr. 

Weasley, Harry, and a witch who was reading an 
extremely long piece of parchment that was trailing 
on the ground. The remaining memos continued to 
soar around the lamp as the lift juddered upward 
again, and then the doors opened and the voice said, 
“Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, 
including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror 
Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration 
Services.” 

“This is us, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, and they 
followed the witch out of the lift into a corridor lined 
with doors. “My office is on the other side of the floor.” 

“Mr. Weasley,” said Harry, as they passed a window 
through which sunlight was streaming, “aren’t we 
underground?” 



Page | 168Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, we are,” said Mr. Weasley, “those are enchanted 
windows; Magical Maintenance decide what weather 
we’re getting every day. We had two months of 
hurricanes last time they were angling for a pay 
raise... Just round here, Harry.” 

They turned a corner, walked through a pair of heavy 
oak doors, and emerged in a cluttered, open area 
divided into cubicles, which were buzzing with talk 
and laughter. Memos were zooming in and out of 
cubicles like miniature rockets. A lopsided sign on the 
nearest cubicle read AUROR HEADQUARTERS. 

Harry looked surreptitiously through the doorways as 
they passed. The Aurors had covered their cubicle 
walls with everything from pictures of wanted wizards 
and photographs of their families, to posters of their 
favorite Quidditch teams and articles from the Daily 
Prophet A scarlet-robed man with a ponytail longer 
than Bill’s was sitting with his boots up on his desk, 
dictating a report to his quill. A little farther along, a 
witch with a patch over her eye was talking over the 
top of her cubicle wall to Kingsley Shacklebolt. 

“Morning, Weasley,” said Kingsley carelessly, as they 
drew nearer. “I’ve been wanting a word with you, have 
you got a second?” 

“Yes, if it really is a second,” said Mr. Weasley, “I’m in 
rather a hurry.” 

They were talking to each other as though they hardly 
knew each other, and when Harry opened his mouth 
to say hello to Kingsley, Mr. Weasley stood on his 
foot. They followed Kingsley along the row and into 
the very last cubicle. 

Harry received a slight shock; Sirius’s face was 
blinking down at him from every direction. Newspaper 

Page | 169Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




cuttings and old photographs — even the one of 
Sirius being best man at the Potters’ wedding — 
papered the walls. The only Sirius-free space was a 
map of the world in which little red pins were glowing 
like jewels. 

“Here,” said Kingsley brusquely to Mr. Weasley, 
shoving a sheaf of parchment into his hand, “I need 
as much information as possible on flying Muggle 
vehicles sighted in the last twelve months. We’ve 
received information that Black might still be using 
his old motorcycle.” 

Kingsley tipped Harry an enormous wink and added, 
in a whisper, “Give him the magazine, he might find it 
interesting.” Then he said in normal tones, “And don’t 
take too long, Weasley, the delay on that firelegs 
report held our investigation up for a month.” 

“If you had read my report you would know that the 
term is ‘firearms,’ ” said Mr. Weasley coolly. “And I’m 
afraid you’ll have to wait for information on 
motorcycles, we’re extremely busy at the moment.” He 
dropped his voice and said, “If you can get away 
before seven, Molly’s making meatballs.” 

He beckoned to Harry and led him out of Kingsley’s 
cubicle, through a second set of oak doors, into 
another passage, turned left, marched along another 
corridor, turned right into a dimly lit and distinctly 
shabby corridor, and finally reached a dead end, 
where a door on the left stood ajar, revealing a broom 
cupboard, and a door on the right bore a tarnished 
brass plaque reading MISUSE OF MUGGLE 
ARTIFACTS. 

Mr. Weasley’s dingy office seemed to be slightly 
smaller than the broom cupboard. Two desks had 
been crammed inside it and there was barely room to 

Page | 170Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




move around them because of all the overflowing 
filing cabinets lining the walls, on top of which were 
tottering piles of files. The little wall space available 
bore witness to Mr. Weasley’s obsessions; there were 
several posters of cars, including one of a dismantled 
engine, two illustrations of postboxes he seemed to 
have cut out of Muggle children’s books, and a 
diagram showing how to wire a plug. 

Sitting on top of Mr. Weasley’s overflowing in-tray was 
an old toaster that was hiccuping in a disconsolate 
way and a pair of empty leather gloves that were 
twiddling their thumbs. A photograph of the Weasley 
family stood beside the in-tray. Harry noticed that 
Percy appeared to have walked out of it. 

“We haven’t got a window,” said Mr. Weasley 
apologetically, taking off his bomber jacket and 
placing it on the back of his chair. “We’ve asked, but 
they don’t seem to think we need one. Have a seat, 
Harry, doesn’t look as if Perkins is in yet.” 

Harry squeezed himself into the chair behind 
Perkins’s desk while Mr. Weasley rifled through the 
sheaf of parchment Kingsley Shacklebolt had given 
him. 

“Ah,” he said, grinning, as he extracted a copy of a 
magazine entitled The Quibbler from its midst, “yes 
...” He flicked through it. “Yes, he’s right, I’m sure 
Sirius will find that very amusing — oh dear, what’s 
this now?” 

A memo had just zoomed in through the open door 
and fluttered to rest on top of the hiccuping toaster. 
Mr. Weasley unfolded it and read aloud, “ Third 
regurgitating public toilet reported in Bethnal Green, 
kindly investigate immediately. ’ This is getting 
ridiculous...” 

Page | 171Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“A regurgitating toilet?” 



“Anti-Muggle pranksters,” said Mr. Weasley, frowning. 
“We had two last week, one in Wimbledon, one in 
Elephant and Castle. Muggles are pulling the flush 
and instead of everything disappearing — well, you 
can imagine. The poor things keep calling in those — 
those pumbles, I think they’re called — you know, the 
ones who mend pipes and things — ” 

“Plumbers?” 

“ — exactly, yes, but of course they’re flummoxed. I 
only hope we can catch whoever’s doing it.” 

“Will it be Aurors who catch them?” 

“Oh no, this is too trivial for Aurors, it’ll be the 
ordinary Magical Law Enforcement Patrol — ah, 

Harry, this is Perkins.” 

A stooped, timid-looking old wizard with fluffy white 
hair had just entered the room, panting. 

“Oh Arthur!” he said desperately, without looking at 
Harry. “Thank goodness, I didn’t know what to do for 
the best, whether to wait here for you or not, I’ve just 
sent an owl to your home but you’ve obviously missed 
it — an urgent message came ten minutes ago — ” 

“I know about the regurgitating toilet,” said Mr. 
Weasley. 

“No, no, it’s not the toilet, it’s the Potter boy’s hearing 
— they’ve changed the time and venue — it starts at 
eight o’clock now and it’s down in old Courtroom Ten 



“Down in old — but they told me — Merlin’s beard — ” 

Page | 172Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mr. Weasley looked at his watch, let out a yelp, and 
leapt from his chair. 

“Quick, Harry, we should have been there five 
minutes ago!” 

Perkins flattened himself against the filing cabinets as 
Mr. Weasley left the office at a run, Harry on his 
heels. 

“Why have they changed the time?” Harry said 
breathlessly as they hurtled past the Auror cubicles; 
people poked out their heads and stared as they 
streaked past. Harry felt as though he had left all his 
insides back at Perkins’s desk. 

“I’ve no idea, but thank goodness we got here so early, 
if you’d missed it it would have been catastrophic!” 

Mr. Weasley skidded to a halt beside the lifts and 
jabbed impatiently at the down button. 

“Come ON!” 

The lift clattered into view and they hurried inside. 
Every time it stopped Mr. Weasley cursed furiously 
and pummelled the number nine button. 

“Those courtrooms haven’t been used in years,” said 
Mr. Weasley angrily. “I can’t think why they’re doing it 
down there — unless — but no ...” 

A plump witch carrying a smoking goblet entered the 
lift at that moment, and Mr. Weasley did not 
elaborate. 

“The Atrium,” said the cool female voice and the 
golden grilles slid open, showing Harry a distant 
glimpse of the golden statues in the fountain. The 

Page | 173Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




plump witch got out and a sallow-skinned wizard with 
a very mournful face got in. 



“Morning, Arthur,” he said in a sepulchral voice as 
the lift began to descend. “Don’t often see you down 
here...” 

“Urgent business, Bode,” said Mr. Weasley, who was 
bouncing on the balls of his feet and throwing 
anxious looks over at Harry. 

“Ah, yes,” said Bode, surveying Harry unblinkingly. 

“Of course.” 

Harry barely had emotion to spare for Bode, but his 
unfaltering gaze did not make him feel any more 
comfortable. 

“Department of Mysteries,” said the cool female voice, 
and left it at that. 

“Quick, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley as the lift doors 
rattled open, and they sped up a corridor that was 
quite different from those above. The walls were bare; 
there were no windows and no doors apart from a 
plain black one set at the very end of the corridor. 
Harry expected them to go through it, but instead Mr. 
Weasley seized him by the arm and dragged him to 
the left, where there was an opening leading to a flight 
of steps. 

“Down here, down here,” panted Mr. Weasley, taking 
two steps at a time. “The lift doesn’t even come down 
this far ... why they’re doing it there ...” 

They reached the bottom of the steps and ran along 
yet another corridor, which bore a great resemblance 
to that which led to Snape’s dungeon at Hogwarts, 
with rough stone walls and torches in brackets. The 

Page | 174Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




doors they passed here were heavy wooden ones with 
iron bolts and keyholes. 

“Courtroom ... ten ... I think ... we’re nearly ... yes.” 

Mr. Weasley stumbled to a halt outside a grimy dark 
door with an immense iron lock and slumped against 
the wall, clutching at a stitch in his chest. 

“Go on,” he panted, pointing his thumb at the door. 
“Get in there.” 

“Aren’t — aren’t you coming with — ?” 

“No, no, I’m not allowed. Good luck!” 

Harry’s heart was beating a violent tattoo against his 
Adam’s apple. He swallowed hard, turned the heavy 
iron door handle, and stepped inside the courtroom. 



Page | 175Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




8 




THE HEARING 

Harry gasped; he could not help himself. The large 
dungeon he had entered was horribly familiar. He had 
not only seen it before, he had been here before: This 
was the place he had visited inside Dumbledore’s 
Pensieve, the place where he had watched the 
Lestranges sentenced to life imprisonment in 
Azkaban. 

The walls were made of dark stone, dimly lit by 
torches. Empty benches rose on either side of him, 
but ahead, in the highest benches of all, were many 
shadowy figures. They had been talking in low voices, 
but as the heavy door swung closed behind Harry an 
ominous silence fell. 

A cold male voice rang across the courtroom. 

“You’re late.” 

“Sorry,” said Harry nervously. “I-I didn’t know the 
time had changed.” 



Page | 176Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“That is not the Wizengamot’s fault,” said the voice. 
“An owl was sent to you this morning. Take your 
seat.” 

Harry dropped his gaze to the chair in the center of 
the room, the arms of which were covered in chains. 
He had seen those chains spring to life and bind 
whoever sat between them. His footsteps echoed 
loudly as he walked across the stone floor. When he 
sat gingerly on the edge of the chair the chains 
clinked rather threateningly but did not bind him. 
Feeling rather sick he looked up at the people seated 
at the bench above. 

There were about fifty of them, all, as far as he could 
see, wearing plum-colored robes with an elaborately 
worked silver W on the left-hand side of the chest and 
all staring down their noses at him, some with very 
austere expressions, others looks of frank curiosity. 

In the very middle of the front row sat Cornelius 
Fudge, the Minister of Magic. Fudge was a portly man 
who often sported a lime-green bowler hat, though 
today he had dispensed with it; he had dispensed too 
with the indulgent smile he had once worn when he 
spoke to Harry. A broad, square-jawed witch with 
very short gray hair sat on Fudge’s left; she wore a 
monocle and looked forbidding. On Fudge’s right was 
another witch, but she was sitting so far back on the 
bench that her face was in shadow. 

“Very well,” said Fudge. “The accused being present 
— finally — let us begin. Are you ready?” he called 
down the row. 

“Yes, sir,” said an eager voice Harry knew. Ron’s 
brother Percy was sitting at the very end of the front 
bench. Harry looked at Percy, expecting some sign of 
recognition from him, but none came. Percy’s eyes, 

Page | 177Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




behind his horn-rimmed glasses, were fixed on his 
parchment, a quill poised in his hand. 



“Disciplinary hearing of the twelfth of August,” said 
Fudge in a ringing voice, and Percy began taking 
notes at once, “into offenses committed under the 
Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage 
Sorcery and the International Statute of Secrecy by 
Harry James Potter, resident at number four, Privet 
Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey. 

“Interrogators: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister of 
Magic; Amelia Susan Bones, Head of the Department 
of Magical Law Enforcement; Dolores Jane Umbridge, 
Senior Undersecretary to the Minister. Court Scribe, 
Percy Ignatius Weasley — ” 

“ — Witness for the defense, Albus Percival Wulfric 
Brian Dumbledore,” said a quiet voice from behind 
Harry, who turned his head so fast he cricked his 
neck. 

Dumbledore was striding serenely across the room 
wearing long midnight-blue robes and a perfectly 
calm expression. His long silver beard and hair 
gleamed in the torchlight as he drew level with Harry 
and looked up at Fudge through the half-moon 
spectacles that rested halfway down his very crooked 
nose. 

The members of the Wizengamot were muttering. All 
eyes were now on Dumbledore. Some looked annoyed, 
others slightly frightened; two elderly witches in the 
back row, however, raised their hands and waved in 
welcome. 

A powerful emotion had risen in Harry’s chest at the 
sight of Dumbledore, a fortified, hopeful feeling rather 
like that which phoenix song gave him. He wanted to 

Page | 178Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




catch Dumbledore’s eye, but Dumbledore was not 
looking his way; he was continuing to look up at the 
obviously flustered Fudge. 

“Ah,” said Fudge, who looked thoroughly 
disconcerted. “Dumbledore. Yes. You — er — got our 

— er — message that the time and — er — place of 
the hearing had been changed, then?” 

“I must have missed it,” said Dumbledore cheerfully. 
“However, due to a lucky mistake I arrived at the 
Ministry three hours early, so no harm done.” 

“Yes — well — I suppose well need another chair — I 

— Weasley, could you — ?” 

“Not to worry, not to worry,” said Dumbledore 
pleasantly; he took out his wand, gave it a little flick, 
and a squashy chintz armchair appeared out of 
nowhere next to Harry. Dumbledore sat down, put the 
tips of his long fingers together, and looked at Fudge 
over them with an expression of polite interest. The 
Wizengamot was still muttering and fidgeting 
restlessly; only when Fudge spoke again did they 
settle down. 

“Yes,” said Fudge again, shuffling his notes. “Well, 
then. So. The charges. Yes.” 

He extricated a piece of parchment from the pile 
before him, took a deep breath, and read, “The 
charges against the accused are as follows: That he 
did knowingly, deliberately, and in full awareness of 
the illegality of his actions, having received a previous 
written warning from the Ministry of Magic on a 
similar charge, produce a Patronus Charm in a 
Muggle-inhabited area, in the presence of a Muggle, 
on August the second at twenty-three minutes past 
nine, which constitutes an offense under paragraph C 
Page | 179Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




of the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of 
Underage Sorcery, 1875, and also under section 
thirteen of the International Confederation of Wizards’ 
Statute of Secrecy. 

“You are Harry James Potter, of number four, Privet 
Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey?” Fudge said, glaring at 
Harry over the top of his parchment. 

“Yes,” Harry said. 

“You received an official warning from the Ministry for 
using illegal magic three years ago, did you not?” 

“Yes, but — ” 

“And yet you conjured a Patronus on the night of the 
second of August?” said Fudge. 

“Yes,” said Harry, “but — ” 

“Knowing that you are not permitted to use magic 
outside school while you are under the age of 
seventeen?” 

“Yes, but — ” 

“Knowing that you were in an area full of Muggles?” 
“Yes, but — ” 

“Fully aware that you were in close proximity to a 
Muggle at the time? 

“Yes,” said Harry angrily, “but I only used it because 
we were — ” 

The witch with the monocle on Fudge’s left cut across 
him in a booming voice. 

Page | 180Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You produced a fully fledged Patronus?” 



“Yes,” said Harry, “because — ” 

“A corporeal Patronus?” 

“A — what?” said Harry. 

“Your Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean to 
say, it was more than vapor or smoke?” 

“Yes,” said Harry, feeling both impatient and slightly 
desperate, “it’s a stag, it’s always a stag.” 

“Always?” boomed Madam Bones. “You have 
produced a Patronus before now?” 

“Yes” said Harry, “I’ve been doing it for over a year — 
