“Mountains?” Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. 
“Nope, South of France fer me. Bit o’ sun an’ ... an’ 
sea.” 

“Really?” said Umbridge. “You don’t have much of a 
tan.” 

“Yeah ... well ... sensitive skin,” said Hagrid, 
attempting an ingratiating smile. Harry noticed that 
two of his teeth had been knocked out. Umbridge 
looked at him coldly; his smile faltered. Then she 
hoisted her handbag a little higher into the crook of 
her arm and said, “I shall, of course, be informing the 
Minister of your late return.” 

“Righ’,” said Hagrid, nodding. 

“You ought to know too that as High Inquisitor it is 
my unfortunate but necessary duty to inspect my 
fellow teachers. So I daresay we shall meet again soon 
enough.” 

She turned sharply and marched back to the door. 

“You’re inspectin’ us?” Hagrid echoed blankly, looking 
after her. 

“Oh yes,” said Umbridge softly, looking back at him 
with her hand on the door handle. “The Ministry is 
determined to weed out unsatisfactory teachers, 
Hagrid. Good night.” 

She left, closing the door behind her with a snap. 
Harry made to pull off the Invisibility Cloak but 
Hermione seized his wrist. 



Page | 561Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Not yet,” she breathed in his ear. “She might not be 
gone yet.” 

Hagrid seemed to be thinking the same way; he 
stumped across the room and pulled back the curtain 
an inch or so. 

“She’s goin’ back ter the castle,” he said in a low 
voice. “Blimey ... inspectin’ people, is she?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, pulling the cloak off. “Trelawney’s 
on probation already...” 

“Um ... what sort of thing are you planning to do with 
us in class, Hagrid?” asked Hermione. 

“Oh, don’ you worry abou’ that, I’ve got a great load o’ 
lessons planned,” said Hagrid enthusiastically, 
scooping up his dragon steak from the table and 
slapping it over his eye again. “I’ve bin keepin’ a 
couple o’ creatures saved fer yer O.W.L. year, you 
wait, they’re somethin’ really special.” 

“Erm . . . special in what way?” asked Hermione 
tentatively. 

“I’m not sayin’,” said Hagrid happily. “I don’ want ter 
spoil the surprise.” 

“Look, Hagrid,” said Hermione urgently, dropping all 
pretense, “Professor Umbridge won’t be at all happy if 
you bring anything to class that’s too dangerous — ” 

“Dangerous?” said Hagrid, looking genially bemused. 
“Don’ be silly, I wouldn’ give yeh anythin’ dangerous! I 
mean, all righ’, they can look after themselves — ” 

“Hagrid, you’ve got to pass Umbridge’s inspection, 
and to do that it would really be better if she saw you 

Page | 562Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




teaching us how to look after porlocks, how to tell the 
difference between knarls and hedgehogs, stuff like 
that!” said Hermione earnestly. 

“But tha’s not very interestin’, Hermione,” said 
Hagrid. “The stuff I’ve got’s much more impressive, 

I’ve bin bringin’ ’em on fer years, I reckon I’ve got the 
on’y domestic herd in Britain — ” 

“Hagrid ... please ...” said Hermione, a note of real 
desperation in her voice. “Umbridge is looking for any 
excuse to get rid of teachers she thinks are too close 
to Dumbledore. Please, Hagrid, teach us something 
dull that’s bound to come up in our O.W.L...” 

But Hagrid merely yawned widely and cast a one-eyed 
look of longing toward the vast bed in the corner. 

“Lis’en, it’s bin a long day an’ it’s late,” he said, 
patting Hermione gently on the shoulder, so that her 
knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud. “Oh — 
sorry — ” He pulled her back up by the neck of her 
robes. “Look, don’ you go worryin’ abou’ me, I promise 
yeh I’ve got really good stuff planned fer yer lessons 
now I’m back... Now you lot had better get back up to 
the castle, an’ don’ forget ter wipe yer footprints out 
behind yeh!” 

“I dunno if you got through to him,” said Ron a short 
while later when, having checked that the coast was 
clear, they walked back up to the castle through the 
thickening snow, leaving no trace behind them due to 
the Obliteration Charm Hermione was performing as 
they went. 

“Then I’ll go back again tomorrow,” said Hermione 
determinedly. “I’ll plan his lessons for him if I have to. 
I don’t care if she throws out Trelawney but she’s not 
taking Hagrid!” 

Page | 563Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE EYE OF THE SNAKE 

Hermione plowed her way back to Hagrid’s cabin 
through two feet of snow on Sunday morning. Harry 
and Ron wanted to go with her, but their mountain of 
homework had reached an alarming height again, so 
they grudgingly remained in the common room, trying 
to ignore the gleeful shouts drifting up from the 
grounds outside, where students were enjoying 
themselves skating on the frozen lake, tobogganing, 
and worst of all, bewitching snowballs to zoom up to 
Gryffindor Tower and rap hard on the windows. 

“Oy!” bellowed Ron, finally losing patience and 
sticking his head out of the window, “I am a prefect 
and if one more snowball hits this window — OUCH!” 

He withdrew his head sharply, his face covered in 
snow. 

“It’s Fred and George,” he said bitterly, slamming the 
window behind him. “Gits ...” 



Page | 564Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Hermione returned from Hagrid’s just before lunch, 
shivering slightly, her robes damp to the knees. 



“So?” said Ron, looking up when she entered. “Got all 
his lessons planned for him?” 

“Well, I tried,” she said dully, sinking into a chair 
beside Harry. She pulled out her wand and gave it a 
complicated little wave so that hot air streamed out of 
the tip; she then pointed this at her robes, which 
began to steam as they dried out. “He wasn’t even 
there when I arrived, I was knocking for at least half 
an hour. And then he came stumping out of the forest 



Harry groaned. The Forbidden Forest was teeming 
with the kind of creatures most likely to get Hagrid 
the sack. “What’s he keeping in there? Did he say?” 
asked Harry. 

“No,” said Hermione miserably. “He says he wants 
them to be a surprise. I tried to explain about 
Umbridge, but he just doesn’t get it. He kept saying 
nobody in their right mind would rather study knarls 
than chimaeras — oh I don’t think he’s got a 
chimaera,” she added at the appalled look on Harry 
and Ron’s faces, “but that’s not for lack of trying from 
what he said about how hard it is to get eggs... I don’t 
know how many times I told him he’d be better off 
following Grubbly-Plank’s plan, I honestly don’t think 
he listened to half of what I said. He’s in a bit of a 
funny mood, you know. He still won’t say how he got 
all those injuries...” 

Hagrid’s reappearance at the staff table at breakfast 
next day was not greeted by enthusiasm from all 
students. Some, like Fred, George, and Lee, roared 
with delight and sprinted up the aisle between the 
Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables to wring Hagrid’s 
Page | 565Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




enormous hand; others, like Parvati and Lavender, 
exchanged gloomy looks and shook their heads. Harry 
knew that many of them preferred Professor Grubbly- 
Plank’s lessons, and the worst of it was that a very 
small, unbiased part of him knew that they had good 
reason: Grubbly-Plank’s idea of an interesting class 
was not one where there was a risk that somebody 
might have their head ripped off. 

It was with a certain amount of apprehension that 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione headed down to Hagrid’s 
on Tuesday, heavily muffled against the cold. Harry 
was worried, not only about what Hagrid might have 
decided to teach them, but also about how the rest of 
the class, particularly Malfoy and his cronies, would 
behave if Umbridge was watching them. 

However, the High Inquisitor was nowhere to be seen 
as they struggled through the snow toward Hagrid, 
who stood waiting for them on the edge of the forest. 
He did not present a reassuring sight; the bruises 
that had been purple on Saturday night were now 
tinged with green and yellow and some of his cuts still 
seemed to be bleeding. Harry could not understand 
this: Had Hagrid perhaps been attacked by some 
creature whose venom prevented the wounds it 
inflicted from healing? As though to complete the 
ominous picture, Hagrid was carrying what looked 
like half a dead cow over his shoulder. 

“We’re workin’ in here today!” Hagrid called happily to 
the approaching students, jerking his head back at 
the dark trees behind him. “Bit more sheltered! 
Anyway, they prefer the dark...” 

“What prefers the dark?” Harry heard Malfoy say 
sharply to Crabbe and Goyle, a trace of panic in his 
voice. “What did he say prefers the dark — did you 
hear?” 

Page | 566Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry remembered the only occasion on which Malfoy 
had entered the forest before now; he had not been 
very brave then either. He smiled to himself; after the 
Quidditch match anything that caused Malfoy 
discomfort was all right with him. 

“Ready?” said Hagrid happily, looking around at the 
class. “Right, well, I’ve bin savin’ a trip inter the forest 
fer yer fifth year. Thought we’d go an’ see these 
creatures in their natural habitat. Now, what we’re 
studyin’ today is pretty rare, I reckon I’m probably the 
on’y person in Britain who’s managed ter train ’em — ” 

“And you’re sure they’re trained, are you?” said 
Malfoy, the panic in his voice even more pronounced 
now. “Only it wouldn’t be the first time you’d brought 
wild stuff to class, would it?” 

The Slytherins murmured agreement and a few 
Gryffindors looked as though they thought Malfoy had 
a fair point too. 

“ ’Course they’re trained,” said Hagrid, scowling and 
hoisting the dead cow a little higher on his shoulder. 

“So what happened to your face, then?” demanded 
Malfoy. 

“Mind yer own business!” said Hagrid, angrily. “Now if 
yeh’ve finished askin’ stupid questions, follow me!” 

He turned and strode straight into the forest. Nobody 
seemed much disposed to follow. Harry glanced at 
Ron and Hermione, who sighed but nodded, and the 
three of them set off after Hagrid, leading the rest of 
the class. 

They walked for about ten minutes until they reached 
a place where the trees stood so closely together that 

Page | 567Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




it was as dark as twilight and there was no snow on 
the ground at all. Hagrid deposited his half a cow with 
a grunt on the ground, stepped back, and turned to 
face his class again, most of whom were creeping 
toward him from tree to tree, peering around 
nervously as though expecting to be set upon at any 
moment. 

“Gather roun’, gather roun’,” said Hagrid 
encouragingly. “Now, they’ll be attracted by the smell 
o’ the meat but I’m goin’ ter give ’em a call anyway, 
’cause they’ll like ter know it’s me...” 

He turned, shook his shaggy head to get the hair out 
of his face, and gave an odd, shrieking cry that 
echoed through the dark trees like the call of some 
monstrous bird. Nobody laughed; most of them 
looked too scared to make a sound. 

Hagrid gave the shrieking cry again. A minute passed 
in which the class continued to peer nervously over 
their shoulders and around trees for a first glimpse of 
whatever it was that was coming. And then, as Hagrid 
shook his hair back for a third time and expanded his 
enormous chest, Harry nudged Ron and pointed into 
the black space between two gnarled yew trees. 

A pair of blank, white, shining eyes were growing 
larger through the gloom and a moment later the 
dragonish face, neck, and then skeletal body of a 
great, black, winged horse emerged from the 
darkness. It looked around at the class for a few 
seconds, swishing its long black tail, then bowed its 
head and began to tear flesh from the dead cow with 
its pointed fangs. 

A great wave of relief broke over Harry. Here at last 
was proof that he had not imagined these creatures, 
that they were real: Hagrid knew about them too. He 

Page | 568Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




looked eagerly at Ron, but Ron was still staring 
around into the trees and after a few seconds he 
whispered, “Why doesn’t Hagrid call again?” 

Most of the rest of the class were wearing expressions 
as confused and nervously expectant as Ron’s and 
were still gazing everywhere but at the horse standing 
feet from them. There were only two other people who 
seemed to be able to see them: a stringy Slytherin boy 
standing just behind Goyle was watching the horse 
eating with an expression of great distaste on his face, 
and Neville, whose eyes were following the swishing 
progress of the long black tail. 

“Oh, an’ here comes another one!” said Hagrid 
proudly, as a second black horse appeared out of the 
dark trees, folded its leathery wings closer to its body, 
and dipped its head to gorge on the meat. “Now ... put 
yer hands up, who can see ’em?” 

Immensely pleased to feel that he was at last going to 
understand the mystery of these horses, Harry raised 
his hand. Hagrid nodded at him. 

“Yeah ... yeah, I knew you’d be able ter, Harry,” he 
said seriously. “An’ you too, Neville, eh? An’ — ” 

“Excuse me,” said Malfoy in a sneering voice, “but 
what exactly are we supposed to be seeing?” 

For answer, Hagrid pointed at the cow carcass on the 
ground. The whole class stared at it for a few seconds, 
then several people gasped and Parvati squealed. 
Harry understood why: Bits of flesh stripping 
themselves away from the bones and vanishing into 
thin air had to look very odd indeed. 



Page | 569Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s doing it?” Parvati demanded in a terrified 
voice, retreating behind the nearest tree. “What’s 
eating it?” 

“Thestrals,” said Hagrid proudly and Hermione gave a 
soft “oh!” of comprehension at Harry’s shoulder. 
“Hogwarts has got a whole herd of ’em in here. Now, 
who knows — ?” 

“But they’re really, really unlucky!” interrupted 
Parvati, looking alarmed. “They’re supposed to bring 
all sorts of horrible misfortune on people who see 
them. Professor Trelawney told me once — ” 

“No, no, no,” said Hagrid, chuckling, “tha’s jus’ 
superstition, that is, they aren’ unlucky, they’re dead 
clever an’ useful! ’Course, this lot don’ get a lot o’ 
work, it’s mainly jus’ pullin’ the school carriages 
unless Dumbledore’s takin’ a long journey an’ don’ 
want ter Apparate — an’ here’s another couple, look 



Two more horses came quietly out of the trees, one of 
them passing very close to Parvati, who shivered and 
pressed herself closer to the tree, saying, “I think I felt 
something, I think it’s near me!” 

“Don’ worry, it won’ hurt yeh,” said Hagrid patiently. 
“Righ’, now, who can tell me why some o’ you can see 
them an’ some can’t?” 

Hermione raised her hand. 

“Go on then,” said Hagrid, beaming at her. 

“The only people who can see thestrals,” she said, 

“are people who have seen death.” 



Page | 570Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Tha’s exactly right,” said Hagrid solemnly, “ten 
points ter Gryffindor. Now, thestrals — ” 

“Hem, hem.” 

Professor Umbridge had arrived. She was standing a 
few feet away from Harry, wearing her green hat and 
cloak again, her clipboard at the ready. Hagrid, who 
had never heard Umbridge ’s fake cough before, was 
gazing in some concern at the closest thestral, 
evidently under the impression that it had made the 
sound. 

“Hem, hem.” 

“Oh hello!” Hagrid said, smiling, having located the 
source of the noise. 

“You received the note I sent to your cabin this 
morning?” said Umbridge, in the same loud, slow 
voice she had used with him earlier, as though she 
was addressing somebody both foreign and very slow. 
“Telling you that I would be inspecting your lesson?” 

“Oh yeah,” said Hagrid brightly. “Glad yeh found the 
place all righ’! Well, as you can see — or, I dunno — 
can you? We’re doin’ thestrals today — ” 

“I’m sorry?” said Umbridge loudly, cupping her hand 
around her ear and frowning. “What did you say?” 

Hagrid looked a little confused. 

“Er — thestralsl” he said loudly. “Big — er — winged 
horses, yeh know!” 

He flapped his gigantic arms hopefully. Professor 
Umbridge raised her eyebrows at him and muttered 



Page | 571Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




as she made a note on her clipboard, “ ‘has ... to ... 
resort ... to ... crude . . . sign . . . language ” 

“Well ... anyway ...” said Hagrid, turning back to the 
class and looking slightly flustered. “Erm ... what was 
I sayin’?” 

“ ‘Appears ... to ... have . . . poor . . . short . . . term . . . 
memory ” muttered Umbridge, loudly enough for 
everyone to hear her. Draco Malfoy looked as though 
Christmas had come a month early; Hermione, on the 
other hand, had turned scarlet with suppressed rage. 

“Oh yeah,” said Hagrid, throwing an uneasy glance at 
Umbridge’s clipboard, but plowing on valiantly. “Yeah, 
I was gonna tell yeh how come we got a herd. Yeah, 
so, we started off with a male an’ five females. This 
one,” he patted the first horse to have appeared, 

“name o’ Tenebrus, he’s my special favorite, firs’ one 
born here in the forest — ” 

“Are you aware,” Umbridge said loudly, interrupting 
him, “that the Ministry of Magic has classified 
thestrals as ‘dangerous’?” 

Harry’s heart sank like a stone, but Hagrid merely 
chuckled. 

“Thestrals aren’ dangerous! All righ, they might take a 
bite outta you if yeh really annoy them — ” 

“ ‘Shows . . . signs ... of ... pleasure ... at ... idea ...of 
... violence ... ‘ ” muttered Umbridge, scribbling on her 
clipboard again. 

“No — come on!” said Hagrid, looking a little anxious 
now. “I mean, a dog’ll bite if yeh bait it, won’ it — but 
thestrals have jus’ got a bad reputation because o’ the 



Page | 572Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




death thing — people used ter think they were bad 
omens, didn’ they? Jus’ didn’ understand, did they?” 



Umbridge did not answer; she finished writing her 
last note, then looked up at Hagrid and said, again 
very loudly and slowly, “Please continue teaching as 
usual. I am going to walk” — she mimed walking — 
Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson were having silent fits of 
laughter — “among the students” — she pointed 
around at individual members of the class — “and 
ask them questions.” She pointed at her mouth to 
indicate talking. 

Hagrid stared at her, clearly at a complete loss to 
understand why she was acting as though he did not 
understand normal English. Hermione had tears of 
fury in her eyes now. 

“You hag, you evil hag!” she whispered, as Umbridge 
walked toward Pansy Parkinson. “I know what you’re 
doing, you awful, twisted, vicious — ” 

“Erm ... anyway,” said Hagrid, clearly struggling to 
regain the flow of his lesson, “so — thestrals. Yeah. 
Well, there’s loads o’ good stuff abou’ them...” 

“Do you find,” said Professor Umbridge in a ringing 
voice to Pansy Parkinson, “that you are able to 
understand Professor Hagrid when he talks?” 

Just like Hermione, Pansy had tears in her eyes, but 
these were tears of laughter; indeed, her answer was 
almost incoherent because she was trying to suppress 
her giggles. “No ... because ... well ... it sounds ... like 
grunting a lot of the time...” 

Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard. The few 
unbruised bits of Hagrid ’s face flushed, but he tried 
to act as though he had not heard Pansy’s answer. 

Page | 573Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Er ... yeah ... good stuff abou’ thestrals. Well, once 
they’re tamed, like this lot, yehll never be lost again. 
‘Mazin’ senses o’ direction, jus’ tell ’em where yeh 
want ter go — ” 

“Assuming they can understand you, of course,” said 
Malfoy loudly, and Pansy Parkinson collapsed in a fit 
of renewed giggles. Professor Umbridge smiled 
indulgently at them and then turned to Neville. 

“You can see the thestrals, Longbottom, can you?” 
she said. 

Neville nodded. 

“Whom did you see die?” she asked, her tone 
indifferent. 

“My ... my grandad,” said Neville. 

“And what do you think of them?” she said, waving 
her stubby hand at the horses, who by now had 
stripped a great deal of the carcass down to bone. 

“Erm,” said Neville nervously, with a glance at Hagrid. 
“Well, they’re ... er ... okay...” 

“ ‘Students ... are ... too ... intimidated ... to ... admit 
... they ... are ... frightened...’ ” muttered Umbridge, 
making another note on her clipboard. 

“No!” said Neville, looking upset, “no, I’m not scared of 
them — !” 

“It’s quite all right,” said Umbridge, patting Neville on 
the shoulder with what she evidently intended to be 
an understanding smile, though it looked more like a 
leer to Harry. “Well, Hagrid,” she turned to look up at 
him again, speaking once more in that loud, slow 
Page | 574Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




voice, “I think I’ve got enough to be getting along 
with... You will receive” — she mimed taking 
something from the air in front of her — “the results 
of your inspection” — she pointed at the clipboard — 
“in ten days’ time.” She held up ten stubby little 
fingers, then, her smile wider and more toadlike than 
ever before beneath her green hat, she bustled from 
their midst, leaving Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson in 
fits of laughter, Hermione actually shaking with fury, 
and Neville looking confused and upset. 

“That foul, lying, twisting old gargoyle!” stormed 
Hermione half an hour later, as they made their way 
back up to the castle through the channels they had 
made earlier in the snow. “You see what she’s up to? 
It’s her thing about half-breeds all over again — she’s 
trying to make out Hagrid’s some kind of dim-witted 
troll, just because he had a giantess for a mother — 
and oh, it’s not fair, that really wasn’t a bad lesson at 
all — I mean, all right, if it had been Blast-Ended 
Skrewts again, but thestrals are fine — in fact, for 
Hagrid, they’re really good!” 

“Umbridge said they’re dangerous,” said Ron. 

“Well, it’s like Hagrid said, they can look after 
themselves,” said Hermione impatiently, “and I 
suppose a teacher like Grubbly-Plank wouldn’t 
usually show them to us before N.E.W.T. level, but, 
well, they are very interesting, aren’t they? The way 
some people can see them and some can’t! I wish I 
could.” 

“Do you?” Harry asked her quietly. 

She looked horrorstruck. 

“Oh Harry — I’m sorry — no, of course I don’t — that 
was a really stupid thing to say — ” 

Page | 575Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s okay,” he said quickly, “don’t worry...” 



“I’m surprised so many people could see them,” said 
Ron. “Three in a class — ” 

“Yeah, Weasley, we were just wondering,” said a 
malicious voice nearby. Unheard by any of them in 
the muffling snow, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were 
walking along right behind them. “D’you reckon if you 
saw someone snuff it you’d be able to see the Quaffle 
better?” 

He, Crabbe, and Goyle roared with laughter as they 
pushed past on their way to the castle and then broke 
into a chorus of “Weasley Is Our King.” Ron’s ears 
turned scarlet. 

“Ignore them, just ignore them,” intoned Hermione, 
pulling out her wand and performing the charm to 
produce hot air again, so that she could melt them an 
easier path through the untouched snow between 
them and the greenhouses. 

December arrived, bringing with it more snow and a 
positive avalanche of homework for the fifth years. 

Ron and Hermione ’s prefect duties also became more 
and more onerous as Christmas approached. They 
were called upon to supervise the decoration of the 
castle (“You try putting up tinsel when Peeves has got 
the other end and is trying to strangle you with it,” 
said Ron), to watch over first and second years 
spending their break times inside because of the 
bitter cold (“And they’re cheeky little snotrags, you 
know, we definitely weren’t that rude when we were in 
first year,” said Ron), and to patrol the corridors in 
shifts with Argus Filch, who suspected that the 
holiday spirit might show itself in an outbreak of 
wizard duels (“He’s got dung for brains, that one,” 
said Ron furiously). They were so busy that Hermione 
Page | 576Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had stopped knitting elf hats and was fretting that 
she was down to her last three. 

“All those poor elves I haven’t set free yet, having to 
stay over during Christmas because there aren’t 
enough hats!” 

Harry, who had not had the heart to tell her that 
Dobby was taking everything she made, bent lower 
over his History of Magic essay. In any case, he did 
not want to think about Christmas. For the first time 
in his school career, he very much wanted to spend 
the holidays away from Hogwarts. Between his 
Quidditch ban and worry about whether or not 
Hagrid was going to be put on probation, he felt 
highly resentful toward the place at the moment. The 
only thing he really looked forward to were the D.A. 
meetings, and they would have to stop over the 
holidays, as nearly everybody in the D.A. would be 
spending the time with their families. Hermione was 
going skiing with her parents, something that greatly 
amused Ron, who had never before heard of Muggles 
strapping narrow strips of wood to their feet to slide 
down mountains. Ron, meanwhile, was going home to 
the Burrow. Harry endured several days of jealousy 
before Ron said, in response to Harry asking how Ron 
was going to get home for Christmas, “But you’re 
coming too! Didn’t I say? Mum wrote and told me to 
invite you weeks ago!” 

Hermione rolled her eyes, but Harry’s spirits soared: 
The thought of Christmas at the Burrow was truly 
wonderful, only slightly marred by Harry’s guilty 
feeling that he would not be able to spend the holiday 
with Sirius. He wondered whether he could possibly 
persuade Mrs. Weasley to invite his godfather for the 
festivities too, but apart from the fact that he doubted 
whether Dumbledore would permit Sirius to leave 
Grimmauld Place, he could not help but feel that Mrs. 
Page | 577Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Weasley might not want him; they were so often at 
loggerheads. Sirius had not contacted Harry at all 
since his last appearance in the fire, and although 
Harry knew that with Umbridge on the constant 
watch it would be unwise to attempt to contact him, 
he did not like to think of Sirius alone in his mother’s 
old house, perhaps pulling a lonely cracker with 
Kreacher. 

Harry arrived early in the Room of Requirement for 
the last D.A. meeting before the holidays and was 
very glad he had, because when the lamps burst into 
light he saw that Dobby had taken it upon himself to 
decorate the place for Christmas. He could tell the elf 
had done it, because nobody else would have strung a 
hundred golden baubles from the ceiling, each 
showing a picture of Harry’s face and bearing the 
legend HAVE A VERY HARRY CHRISTMAS! 

Harry had only just managed to get the last of them 
down before the door creaked open and Luna 
Lovegood entered, looking dreamy as always. 

“Hello,” she said vaguely, looking around at what 
remained of the decorations. “These are nice, did you 
put them up?” 

“No,” said Harry, “it was Dobby the house-elf.” 

“Mistletoe,” said Luna dreamily, pointing at a large 
clump of white berries placed almost over Harry’s 
head. He jumped out from under it. “Good thinking,” 
said Luna very seriously. “It’s often infested with 
nargles.” 

Harry was saved the necessity of asking what nargles 
were by the arrival of Angelina, Katie, and Alicia. All 
three of them were breathless and looked very cold. 



Page | 578Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well,” said Angelina dully, pulling off her cloak and 
throwing it into a corner, “we’ve replaced you.” 



“Replaced me?” said Harry blankly. 

“You and Fred and George,” she said impatiently. 
“We’ve got another Seeker!” 

“Who?” said Harry quickly. 

“Ginny Weasley,” said Katie. 

Harry gaped at her. 

“Yeah, I know,” said Angelina, pulling out her wand 
and flexing her arm. “But she’s pretty good, actually. 
Nothing on you, of course,” she said, throwing him a 
very dirty look, “but as we can’t have you ...” 

Harry bit back the retort he was longing to utter: Did 
she imagine for a second that he did not regret his 
expulsion from the team a hundred times more than 
she did? 

“And what about the Beaters?” he asked, trying to 
keep his voice even. 

“Andrew Kirke,” said Alicia without enthusiasm, “and 
Jack Sloper. Neither of them are brilliant, but 
compared with the rest of the idiots who turned up 



The arrival of Ron, Hermione, and Neville brought this 
depressing discussion to an end and within five 
minutes, the room was full enough to prevent him 
seeing Angelina’s burning, reproachful looks. 

“Okay,” he said, calling them all to order. “I thought 
this evening we should just go over the things we’ve 

Page | 579Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




done so far, because it’s the last meeting before the 
holidays and there’s no point starting anything new 
right before a three-week break — ” 

“We’re not doing anything new?” said Zacharias 
Smith, in a disgruntled whisper loud enough to carry 
through the room. “If I’d known that, I wouldn’t have 
come...” 

“We’re all really sorry Harry didn’t tell you, then,” said 
Fred loudly. 

Several people sniggered. Harry saw Cho laughing 
and felt the familiar swooping sensation in his 
stomach, as though he had missed a step going 
downstairs. 

“We can practice in pairs,” said Harry. “Well start 
with the Impediment Jinx, just for ten minutes, then 
we can get out the cushions and try Stunning again.” 

They all divided up obediently; Harry partnered 
Neville as usual. The room was soon full of 
intermittent cries of “ Impedimental ” People froze for a 
minute or so, during which their partners would stare 
aimlessly around the room watching other pairs at 
work, then would unfreeze and take their turn at the 
jinx. 

Neville had improved beyond all recognition. After a 
while, when Harry had unfrozen three times in a row, 
he had Neville join Ron and Hermione again so that 
he could walk around the room and watch the others. 
When he passed Cho she beamed at him; he resisted 
the temptation to walk past her several more times. 

After ten minutes on the Impediment Jinx, they laid 
out cushions all over the floor and started practicing 
Stunning again. Space was really too confined to 

Page | 580Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




allow them all to work this spell at once; half the 
group observed the others for a while, then swapped 
over. Harry felt himself positively swelling with pride 
as he watched them all. True, Neville did Stun Padma 
Patil rather than Dean, at whom he had been aiming, 
but it was a much closer miss than usual, and 
everybody else had made enormous progress. 

At the end of an hour, Harry called a halt. 

“You’re getting really good,” he said, beaming around 
at them. “When we get back from the holidays we can 
start doing some of the big stuff — maybe even 
Patronuses.” 

There was a murmur of excitement. The room began 
to clear in the usual twos and threes; most people 
wished Harry a Happy Christmas as they went. 

Feeling cheerful, he collected up the cushions with 
Ron and Hermione and stacked them neatly away. 

Ron and Hermione left before he did; he hung back a 
little, because Cho was still there and he was hoping 
to receive a Merry Christmas from her. 

“No, you go on,” he heard her say to her friend 
Marietta, and his heart gave a jolt that seemed to take 
it into the region of his Adam’s apple. 

He pretended to be straightening the cushion pile. He 
was quite sure they were alone now and waited for 
her to speak. Instead, he heard a hearty sniff. 

He turned and saw Cho standing in the middle of the 
room, tears pouring down her face. 

“Wha — ?” 



He didn’t know what to do. She was simply standing 
there, crying silently. 

Page | 581Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s up?” he said feebly. 



She shook her head and wiped her eyes on her sleeve. 
“I’m — sorry,” she said thickly. “I suppose ... it’s just 
... learning all this stuff... It just makes me ... wonder 
whether ... if he’d known it all ... he’d still be alive...” 

Harry’s heart sank right back past its usual spot and 
settled somewhere around his navel. He ought to have 
known. She wanted to talk about Cedric. 

“He did know this stuff,” Harry said heavily. “He was 
really good at it, or he could never have got to the 
middle of that maze. But if Voldemort really wants to 
kill you, you don’t stand a chance.” 

She hiccuped at the sound of Voldemort’s name, but 
stared at Harry without flinching. 

“ You survived when you were just a baby,” she said 
quietly. 

“Yeah, well,” said Harry wearily, moving toward the 
door, “I dunno why, nor does anyone else, so it’s 
nothing to be proud of.” 

“Oh don’t go!” said Cho, sounding tearful again. “I’m 
really sorry to get all upset like this... I didn’t mean 
to...” 

She hiccuped again. She was very pretty even when 
her eyes were red and puffy. Harry felt thoroughly 
miserable. He’d have been so pleased just with a 
Merry Christmas... 

“I know it must be horrible for you,” she said, 
mopping her eyes on her sleeve again. “Me 
mentioning Cedric, when you saw him die... I suppose 
you just want to forget about it...” 

Page | 582Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not say anything to this; it was quite true, 
but he felt heartless saying it. 

“You’re a r-really good teacher, you know,” said Cho, 
with a watery smile. “I’ve never been able to Stun 
anything before.” 

