goes out completely, Buttercup's temporarily distraught and
confused, but he recovers and moves on to other things.
(That's what would happen if Peeta died.) But the one thing
that sends Buttercup into a tailspin is when I leave the light
on but put it hopelessly out of his reach, high on the wall,
beyond even his jumping skills. He paces below the wall,
wails, and can't be comforted or distracted. He's useless
until I shut the light off. (That's what Snow is trying to do to
me now, only I don't know what form his game takes.)
Maybe this realization on my part is all Snow needs.
Thinking that Peeta was in his possession and being
tortured for rebel information was bad. But thinking that he's
being tortured specifically to incapacitate me is
unendurable. And it's under the weight of this revelation that
I truly begin to break.
After Crazy Cat, we're directed to bed. The power's
been coming and going; sometimes the lamps burn at full
brightness, other times we squint at one another in the
brownouts. At bedtime they turn the lamps to near darkness
and activate safety lights in each space. Prim, who's
decided the walls will hold up, snuggles with Buttercup on
the lower bunk. My mother's on the upper. I offer to take a
bunk, but they make me keep to the floor mattress since I
flail around so much when I'm sleeping.
I'm not flailing now, as my muscles are rigid with the
tension of holding myself together. The pain over my heart
returns, and from it I imagine tiny fissures spreading out into
my body. Through my torso, down my arms and legs, over
my face, leaving it crisscrossed with cracks. One good jolt
of a bunker missile and I could shatter into strange, razorsharp
shards.
When the restless, wiggling majority has settled into
sleep, I carefully extricate myself from my blanket and tiptoe
through the cavern until I find Finnick, feeling for some
unspecified reason that he will understand. He sits under
the safety light in his space, knotting his rope, not even
pretending to rest. As I whisper my discovery of Snow's
plan to break me, it dawns on me. This strategy is very old
news to Finnick. It's what broke him.
"This is what they're doing to you with Annie, isn't it?" I
ask.
"Well, they didn't arrest her because they thought she'd
be a wealth of rebel information," he says. "They know I'd
never have risked telling her anything like that. For her own
protection."
"Oh, Finnick. I'm so sorry," I say.
"No, I'm sorry. That I didn't warn you somehow," he tells
me.
Suddenly, a memory surfaces. I'm strapped to my bed,
mad with rage and grief after the rescue. Finnick is trying to
console me about Peeta. "They'll figure out he doesn't
know anything pretty fast. And they won't kill him if they
think they can use him against you."
"You did warn me, though. On the hovercraft. Only
when you said they'd use Peeta against me, I thought you
meant like bait. To lure me into the Capitol somehow," I
say.
"I shouldn't have said even that. It was too late for it to
be of any help to you. Since I hadn't warned you before the
Quarter Quell, I should've shut up about how Snow
operates." Finnick yanks on the end of his rope, and an
intricate knot becomes a straight line again. "It's just that I
didn't understand when I met you. After your first Games, I
thought the whole romance was an act on your part. We all
expected you'd continue that strategy. But it wasn't until
Peeta hit the force field and nearly died that I--" Finnick
hesitates.
I think back to the arena. How I sobbed when Finnick
revived Peeta. The quizzical look on Finnick's face. The
way he excused my behavior, blaming it on my pretend
pregnancy. "That you what?"
"That I knew I'd misjudged you. That you do love him.
I'm not saying in what way. Maybe you don't know yourself.
But anyone paying attention could see how much you care
about him," he says gently.
Anyone? On Snow's visit before the Victory Tour, he
challenged me to erase any doubts of my love for Peeta.
"Convince me," Snow said. It seems, under that hot pink
sky with Peeta's life in limbo, I finally did. And in doing so, I
gave him the weapon he needed to break me.
Finnick and I sit for a long time in silence, watching the
knots bloom and vanish, before I can ask, "How do you
bear it?"
Finnick looks at me in disbelief. "I don't, Katniss!
Obviously, I don't. I drag myself out of nightmares each
morning and find there's no relief in waking." Something in
my expression stops him. "Better not to give in to it. It takes
ten times as long to put yourself back together as it does to
fall apart."
Well, he must know. I take a deep breath, forcing
myself back into one piece.
"The more you can distract yourself, the better," he
says. "First thing tomorrow, we'll get you your own rope.
Until then, take mine."
I spend the rest of the night on my mattress
obsessively making knots, holding them up for Buttercup's
inspection. If one looks suspicious, he swipes it out of the
air and bites it a few times to make sure it's dead. By
morning, my fingers are sore, but I'm still holding on.
With twenty-four hours of quiet behind us, Coin finally
announces we can leave the bunker. Our old quarters have
been destroyed by the bombings. Everyone must follow
exact directions to their new compartments. We clean our
spaces, as directed, and file obediently toward the door.
Before I'm halfway there, Boggs appears and pulls me
from the line. He signals for Gale and Finnick to join us.
People move aside to let us by. Some even smile at me
since the Crazy Cat game seems to have made me more
lovable. Out the door, up the stairs, down the hall to one of
those multidirectional elevators, and finally we arrive at
Special Defense. Nothing along our route has been
damaged, but we are still very deep.
Boggs ushers us into a room virtually identical to
Command. Coin, Plutarch, Haymitch, Cressida, and
everybody else around the table looks exhausted.
Someone has finally broken out the coffee--although I'm
sure it's viewed only as an emergency stimulant--and
Plutarch has both hands wrapped tightly around his cup as
if at any moment it might be taken away.
There's no small talk. "We need all four of you suited
up and aboveground," says the president. "You have two
hours to get footage showing the damage from the
bombing, establish that Thirteen's military unit remains not
only functional but dominant, and, most important, that the
Mockingjay is still alive. Any questions?"
"Can we have a coffee?" asks Finnick.
Steaming cups are handed out. I stare distastefully at
the shiny black liquid, never having been much of a fan of
the stuff, but thinking it might help me stay on my feet.
Finnick sloshes some cream in my cup and reaches into
the sugar bowl. "Want a sugar cube?" he asks in his old
seductive voice. That's how we met, with Finnick offering
me sugar. Surrounded by horses and chariots, costumed
and painted for the crowds, before we were allies. Before I
had any idea what made him tick. The memory actually
coaxes a smile out of me. "Here, it improves the taste," he
says in his real voice, plunking three cubes in my cup.
As I turn to go suit up as the Mockingjay, I catch Gale
watching me and Finnick unhappily. What now? Does he
actually think something's going on between us? Maybe he
saw me go to Finnick's last night. I would've passed the
Hawthornes' space to get there. I guess that probably
rubbed him the wrong way. Me seeking out Finnick's
company instead of his. Well, fine. I've got rope burn on my
fingers, I can barely hold my eyes open, and a camera
crew's waiting for me to do something brilliant. And Snow's
got Peeta. Gale can think whatever he wants.
In my new Remake Room in Special Defense, my prep
team slaps me into my Mockingjay suit, arranges my hair,
and applies minimal makeup before my coffee's even
cooled. In ten minutes, the cast and crew of the next propos
are making the circuitous trek to the outside. I slurp my
coffee as we travel, finding that the cream and sugar greatly
enhance its flavor. As I knock back the dregs that have
settled to the bottom of the cup, I feel a slight buzz start to
run through my veins.
After climbing a final ladder, Boggs hits a lever that
opens a trapdoor. Fresh air rushes in. I take big gulps and
for the first time allow myself to feel how much I hated the
bunker. We emerge into the woods, and my hands run
through the leaves overhead. Some are just starting to turn.
"What day is it?" I ask no one in particular. Boggs tells me
September begins next week.
September. That means Snow has had Peeta in his
clutches for five, maybe six weeks. I examine a leaf on my
palm and see I'm shaking. I can't will myself to stop. I blame
the coffee and try to focus on slowing my breathing, which
is far too rapid for my pace.
Debris begins to litter the forest floor. We come to our
first crater, thirty yards wide and I can't tell how deep. Very.
Boggs says anyone on the first ten levels would likely have
been killed. We skirt the pit and continue on.
"Can you rebuild it?" Gale asks.
"Not anytime soon. That one didn't get much. A few
backup generators and a poultry farm," says Boggs. "We'll
just seal it off."
The trees disappear as we enter the area inside the
fence. The craters are ringed with a mixture of old and new
rubble. Before the bombing, very little of the current 13 was
aboveground. A few guard stations. The training area.
About a foot of the top floor of our building--where
Buttercup's window jutted out--with several feet of steel on
top of it. Even that was never meant to withstand more than
a superficial attack.
"How much of an edge did the boy's warning give
you?" asks Haymitch.
"About ten minutes before our own systems would've
detected the missiles," says Boggs.
"But it did help, right?" I ask. I can't bear it if he says
no.
"Absolutely," Boggs replies. "Civilian evacuation was
completed. Seconds count when you're under attack. Ten
minutes meant lives saved."
Prim, I think. And Gale. They were in the bunker only a
couple of minutes before the first missile hit. Peeta might
have saved them. Add their names to the list of things I can
never stop owing him for.
Cressida has the idea to film me in front of the ruins of
the old Justice Building, which is something of a joke since
the Capitol's been using it as a backdrop for fake news
broadcasts for years, to show that the district no longer
existed. Now, with the recent attack, the Justice Building
sits about ten yards away from the edge of a new crater.
As we approach what used to be the grand entrance,
Gale points out something and the whole party slows down.
I don't know what the problem is at first and then I see the
ground strewn with fresh pink and red roses. "Don't touch
them!" I yell. "They're for me!"
The sickeningly sweet smell hits my nose, and my
heart begins to hammer against my chest. So I didn't
imagine it. The rose on my dresser. Before me lies Snow's
second delivery. Long-stemmed pink and red beauties, the
very flowers that decorated the set where Peeta and I
performed our post-victory interview. Flowers not meant for
one, but for a pair of lovers.
I explain to the others as best I can. Upon inspection,
they appear to be harmless, if genetically enhanced,
flowers. Two dozen roses. Slightly wilted. Most likely
dropped after the last bombing. A crew in special suits
collects them and carts them away. I feel certain they will
find nothing extraordinary in them, though. Snow knows
exactly what he's doing to me. It's like having Cinna beaten
to a pulp while I watch from my tribute tube. Designed to
unhinge me.
Like then, I try to rally and fight back. But as Cressida
gets Castor and Pollux in place, I feel my anxiety building.
I'm so tired, so wired, and so unable to keep my mind on
anything but Peeta since I've seen the roses. The coffee
was a huge mistake. What I didn't need was a stimulant. My
body visibly shakes and I can't seem to catch my breath.
After days in the bunker, I'm squinting no matter what
direction I turn, and the light hurts. Even in the cool breeze,
sweat trickles down my face.
"So, what exactly do you need from me again?" I ask.
"Just a few quick lines that show you're alive and still
fighting," says Cressida.
"Okay." I take my position and then I'm staring into the
red light. Staring. Staring. "I'm sorry, I've got nothing."
Cressida walks up to me. "You feeling okay?" I nod.
She pulls a small cloth from her pocket and blots my face.
"How about we do the old Q-and-A thing?"
"Yeah. That would help, I think." I cross my arms to hide
the shaking. Glance at Finnick, who gives me a thumbs-up.
But he's looking pretty shaky himself.
Cressida's back in position now. "So, Katniss. You've
survived the Capitol bombing of Thirteen. How did it
compare with what you experienced on the ground in
Eight?"
"We were so far underground this time, there was no
real danger. Thirteen's alive and well and so am--" My voice
cuts off in a dry, squeaking sound.
"Try the line again," says Cressida. "'Thirteen's alive
and well and so am I.'"
I take a breath, trying to force air down into my
diaphragm. "Thirteen's alive and so--" No, that's wrong.
I swear I can still smell those roses.
"Katniss, just this one line and you're done today. I
promise," says Cressida. "'Thirteen's alive and well and so
am I.'"
I swing my arms to loosen myself up. Place my fists on
my hips. Then drop them to my sides. Saliva's filling my
mouth at a ridiculous rate and I feel vomit at the back of my
throat. I swallow hard and open my lips so I can get the
stupid line out and go hide in the woods and--that's when I
start crying.
It's impossible to be the Mockingjay. Impossible to
complete even this one sentence. Because now I know that
everything I say will be directly taken out on Peeta. Result in
his torture. But not his death, no, nothing so merciful as that.
Snow will ensure that his life is much worse than death.
"Cut," I hear Cressida say quietly.
"What's wrong with her?" Plutarch says under his
breath.
"She's figured out how Snow's using Peeta," says
Finnick.
There's something like a collective sigh of regret from
the semicircle of people spread out before me. Because I
know this now. Because there will never be a way for me to
not know this again. Because, beyond the military
disadvantage losing a Mockingjay entails, I am broken.
Several sets of arms would embrace me. But in the
end, the only person I truly want to comfort me is Haymitch,
because he loves Peeta, too. I reach out for him and say
something like his name and he's there, holding me and
patting my back. "It's okay. It'll be okay, sweetheart." He sits
me on a length of broken marble pillar and keeps an arm
around me while I sob.
"I can't do this anymore," I say.
"I know," he says.
"All I can think of is--what he's going to do to Peeta--
because I'm the Mockingjay!" I get out.
"I know." Haymitch's arm tightens around me.
"Did you see? How weird he acted? What are they--
doing to him?" I'm gasping for air between sobs, but I
manage one last phrase. "It's my fault!" And then I cross
some line into hysteria and there's a needle in my arm and
the world slips away.
It must be strong, whatever they shot into me, because
it's a full day before I come to. My sleep wasn't peaceful,
though. I have the sense of emerging from a world of dark,
haunted places where I traveled alone. Haymitch sits in the
chair by my bed, his skin waxen, his eyes bloodshot. I
remember about Peeta and start to tremble again.
Haymitch reaches out and squeezes my shoulder. "It's
all right. We're going to try to get Peeta out."
"What?" That makes no sense.
"Plutarch's sending in a rescue team. He has people
on the inside. He thinks we can get Peeta back alive," he
says.
"Why didn't we before?" I say.
"Because it's costly. But everyone agrees this is the
thing to do. It's the same choice we made in the arena. To
do whatever it takes to keep you going. We can't lose the
Mockingjay now. And you can't perform unless you know
Snow can't take it out on Peeta." Haymitch offers me a cup.
"Here, drink something."
I slowly sit up and take a sip of water. "What do you
mean, costly?"
He shrugs. "Covers will be blown. People may die. But
keep in mind that they're dying every day. And it's not just
Peeta; we're getting Annie out for Finnick, too."
"Where is he?" I ask.
"Behind that screen, sleeping his sedative off. He lost
it right after we knocked you out," says Haymitch. I smile a
little, feel a bit less weak. "Yeah, it was a really excellent
shoot. You two cracked up and Boggs left to arrange the
mission to get Peeta. We're officially in reruns."
"Well, if Boggs is leading it, that's a plus," I say.
"Oh, he's on top of it. It was volunteer only, but he
pretended not to notice me waving my hand in the air," says
Haymitch. "See? He's already demonstrated good
judgment."
Something's wrong. Haymitch's trying a little too hard
to cheer me up. It's not really his style. "So who else
volunteered?"
"I think there were seven altogether," he says
evasively.
I get a bad feeling in the pit of my stomach. "Who else,
Haymitch?" I insist.
Haymitch finally drops the good-natured act. "You
know who else, Katniss. You know who stepped up first."
Of course I do.
Gale.
12
Today I might lose both of them.
I try to imagine a world where both Gale's and Peeta's
voices have ceased. Hands stilled. Eyes unblinking. I'm
standing over their bodies, having a last look, leaving the
room where they lie. But when I open the door to step out
into the world, there's only a tremendous void. A pale gray
nothingness that is all my future holds.
"Do you want me to have them sedate you until it's
over?" asks Haymitch. He's not joking. This is a man who
spent his adult life at the bottom of a bottle, trying to
anesthetize himself against the Capitol's crimes. The
sixteen-year-old boy who won the second Quarter Quell
must have had people he loved--family, friends, a
sweetheart maybe--that he fought to get back to. Where are
they now? How is it that until Peeta and I were thrust upon
him, there was no one at all in his life? What did Snow do to
them?
"No," I say. "I want to go to the Capitol. I want to be part
of the rescue mission."
"They're gone," says Haymitch.
"How long ago did they leave? I could catch up. I could-
-" What? What could I do?
Haymitch shakes his head. "It'll never happen. You're
too valuable and too vulnerable. There was talk of sending
you to another district to divert the Capitol's attention while
the rescue takes place. But no one felt you could handle it."
"Please, Haymitch!" I'm begging now. "I have to do
something. I can't just sit here waiting to hear if they died.
There must be something I can do!"
"All right. Let me talk to Plutarch. You stay put." But I
can't. Haymitch's footsteps are still echoing in the outer hall
when I fumble my way through the slit in the dividing curtain
to find Finnick sprawled out on his stomach, his hands
twisted in his pillowcase. Although it's cowardly--cruel even-
-to rouse him from the shadowy, muted drug land to stark
reality, I go ahead and do it because I can't stand to face
this by myself.
As I explain our situation, his initial agitation
mysteriously ebbs. "Don't you see, Katniss, this will decide
things. One way or the other. By the end of the day, they'll
either be dead or with us. It's...it's more than we could hope
for!"
Well, that's a sunny view of our situation. And yet
there's something calming about the idea that this torment
could come to an end.
The curtain yanks back and there's Haymitch. He has a
job for us, if we can pull it together. They still need postbombing
footage of 13. "If we can get it in the next few
hours, Beetee can air it leading up to the rescue, and
maybe keep the Capitol's attention elsewhere."
"Yes, a distraction," says Finnick. "A decoy of sorts."
"What we really need is something so riveting that
even President Snow won't be able to tear himself away.
Got anything like that?" asks Haymitch.
Having a job that might help the mission snaps me into
focus. While I knock down breakfast and get prepped, I try
to think of what I might say. President Snow must be
wondering how that blood-splattered floor and his roses are
affecting me. If he wants me broken, then I will have to be
whole. But I don't think I will convince him of anything by
shouting a couple of defiant lines at the camera. Besides,
that won't buy the rescue team any time. Outbursts are
short. It's stories that take time.
I don't know if it will work, but when the television
crew's all assembled aboveground, I ask Cressida if she
could start out by asking me about Peeta. I take a seat on
the fallen marble pillar where I had my breakdown, wait for
the red light and Cressida's question.
"How did you meet Peeta?" she asks.
And then I do the thing that Haymitch has wanted since
my first interview. I open up. "When I met Peeta, I was
eleven years old, and I was almost dead." I talk about that
awful day when I tried to sell the baby clothes in the rain,
how Peeta's mother chased me from the bakery door, and
how he took a beating to bring me the loaves of bread that
saved our lives. "We had never even spoken. The first time
I ever talked to Peeta was on the train to the Games."
"But he was already in love with you," says Cressida.
"I guess so." I allow myself a small smile.
"How are you doing with the separation?" she asks.
"Not well. I know at any moment Snow could kill him.
Especially since he warned Thirteen about the bombing. It's
a terrible thing to live with," I say. "But because of what
they're putting him through, I don't have any reservations
anymore. About doing whatever it takes to destroy the
Capitol. I'm finally free." I turn my gaze skyward and watch
the flight of a hawk across the sky. "President Snow once
admitted to me that the Capitol was fragile. At the time, I
didn't know what he meant. It was hard to see clearly
because I was so afraid. Now I'm not. The Capitol's fragile
because it depends on the districts for everything. Food,
energy, even the Peacekeepers that police us. If we
declare our freedom, the Capitol collapses. President
Snow, thanks to you, I'm officially declaring mine today."
I've been sufficient, if not dazzling. Everyone loves the
bread story. But it's my message to President Snow that
gets the wheels spinning in Plutarch's brain. He hastily calls
Finnick and Haymitch over and they have a brief but intense
conversation that I can see Haymitch isn't happy with.
Plutarch seems to win--Finnick's pale but nodding his head
by the end of it.
As Finnick moves to take my seat before the camera,
Haymitch tells him, "You don't have to do this."
"Yes, I do. If it will help her." Finnick balls up his rope in
his hand. "I'm ready."
I don't know what to expect. A love story about Annie?
An account of the abuses in District 4? But Finnick Odair
takes a completely different tack.
"President Snow used to...sell me...my body, that is,"
Finnick begins in a flat, removed tone. "I wasn't the only
one. If a victor is considered desirable, the president gives
them as a reward or allows people to buy them for an
exorbitant amount of money. If you refuse, he kills someone
you love. So you do it."
That explains it, then. Finnick's parade of lovers in the
Capitol. They were never real lovers. Just people like our
old Head Peacekeeper, Cray, who bought desperate girls
to devour and discard because he could. I want to interrupt
the taping and beg Finnick's forgiveness for every false
thought I've ever had about him. But we have a job to do,
and I sense Finnick's role will be far more effective than
mine.
"I wasn't the only one, but I was the most popular," he
says. "And perhaps the most defenseless, because the
people I loved were so defenseless. To make themselves
feel better, my patrons would make presents of money or
jewelry, but I found a much more valuable form of payment."
Secrets, I think. That's what Finnick told me his lovers
paid him in, only I thought the whole arrangement was by
his choice.
"Secrets," he says, echoing my thoughts. "And this is
where you're going to want to stay tuned, President Snow,
because so very many of them were about you. But let's
begin with some of the others."
Finnick begins to weave a tapestry so rich in detail that
you can't doubt its authenticity. Tales of strange sexual
appetites, betrayals of the heart, bottomless greed, and
bloody power plays. Drunken secrets whispered over damp
pillow-cases in the dead of night. Finnick was someone
bought and sold. A district slave. A handsome one,
certainly, but in reality, harmless. Who would he tell? And
who would believe him if he did? But some secrets are too
delicious not to share. I don't know the people Finnick
names--all seem to be prominent Capitol citizens--but I
know, from listening to the chatter of my prep team, the
attention the most mild slip in judgment can draw. If a bad
haircut can lead to hours of gossip, what will charges of
incest, back-stabbing, blackmail, and arson produce? Even
as the waves of shock and recrimination roll over the
Capitol, the people there will be waiting, as I am now, to
hear about the president.
"And now, on to our good President Coriolanus
Snow," says Finnick. "Such a young man when he rose to
power. Such a clever one to keep it. How, you must ask
yourself, did he do it? One word. That's all you really need
to know. Poison." Finnick goes back to Snow's political
ascension, which I know nothing of, and works his way up to
the present, pointing out case after case of the mysterious
deaths of Snow's adversaries or, even worse, his allies
who had the potential to become threats. People dropping
dead at a feast or slowly, inexplicably declining into
shadows over a period of months. Blamed on bad shellfish,
elusive viruses, or an overlooked weakness in the aorta.
Snow drinking from the poisoned cup himself to deflect
suspicion. But antidotes don't always work. They say that's
why he wears the roses that reek of perfume. They say it's
to cover the scent of blood from the mouth sores that will
never heal. They say, they say, they say...Snow has a list
and no one knows who will be next.
Poison. The perfect weapon for a snake.
Since my opinion of the Capitol and its noble president
are already so low, I can't say Finnick's allegations shock
me. They seem to have far more effect on the displaced
Capitol rebels like my crew and Fulvia--even Plutarch
occasionally reacts in surprise, maybe wondering how a
specific tidbit passed him by. When Finnick finishes, they
just keep the cameras rolling until finally he has to be the
one to say "Cut."
The crew hurries inside to edit the material, and
Plutarch leads Finnick off for a chat, probably to see if he
has any more stories. I'm left with Haymitch in the rubble,
wondering if Finnick's fate would have one day been mine.
Why not? Snow could have gotten a really good price for
the girl on fire.
"Is that what happened to you?" I ask Haymitch.
"No. My mother and younger brother. My girl. They
were all dead two weeks after I was crowned victor.
Because of that stunt I pulled with the force field," he
answers. "Snow had no one to use against me."
"I'm surprised he didn't just kill you," I say.
"Oh, no. I was the example. The person to hold up to
the young Finnicks and Johannas and Cashmeres. Of what
could happen to a victor who caused problems," says
Haymitch. "But he knew he had no leverage against me."
"Until Peeta and I came along," I say softly. I don't even
get a shrug in return.
With our job done, there's nothing left for Finnick and
me to do but wait. We try to fill the dragging minutes in
Special Defense. Tie knots. Push our lunch around our
bowls. Blow things up on the shooting range. Because of
the danger of detection, no communication comes from the
rescue team. At 15:00, the designated hour, we stand
tense and silent in the back of a room full of screens and
computers and watch Beetee and his team try to dominate
the airwaves. His usual fidgety distraction is replaced with
a determination I have never seen. Most of my interview
doesn't make the cut, just enough to show I am alive and
still defiant. It is Finnick's salacious and gory account of the
Capitol that takes the day. Is Beetee's skill improving? Or
are his counterparts in the Capitol a little too fascinated to
want to tune Finnick out? For the next sixty minutes, the
Capitol feed alternates between the standard afternoon
newscast, Finnick, and attempts to black it all out. But the
rebel techno team manages to override even the latter and,
in a real coup, keeps control for almost the entire attack on
Snow.
"Let it go!" says Beetee, throwing up his hands,
relinquishing the broadcast back to the Capitol. He mops
his face with a cloth. "If they're not out of there by now,
they're all dead." He spins in his chair to see Finnick and
me reacting to his words. "It was a good plan, though. Did
Plutarch show it to you?"
Of course not. Beetee takes us to another room and
shows us how the team, with the help of rebel insiders, will
attempt--has attempted--to free the victors from an
underground prison. It seems to have involved knockout
gas distributed by the ventilation system, a power failure,
the detonation of a bomb in a government building several
miles from the prison, and now the disruption of the
broadcast. Beetee's glad we find the plan hard to follow,
because then our enemies will, too.
"Like your electricity trap in the arena?" I ask.
"Exactly. And see how well that worked out?" says
Beetee.
Well...not really, I think.
Finnick and I try to station ourselves in Command,
where surely first word of the rescue will come, but we are
barred because serious war business is being carried out.
We refuse to leave Special Defense and end up waiting in
the hummingbird room for news.
Making knots. Making knots. No word. Making knots.
Tick-tock. This is a clock. Do not think of Gale. Do not think
of Peeta. Making knots. We do not want dinner. Fingers
raw and bleeding. Finnick finally gives up and assumes the
hunched position he took in the arena when the jabberjays
attacked. I perfect my miniature noose. The words of "The
Hanging Tree" replay in my head. Gale and Peeta. Peeta
and Gale.
"Did you love Annie right away, Finnick?" I ask.
"No." A long time passes before he adds, "She crept
up on me."
I search my heart, but at the moment the only person I
can feel creeping up on me is Snow.
It must be midnight, it must be tomorrow when
Haymitch pushes open the door. "They're back. We're
wanted in the hospital." My mouth opens with a flood of
questions that he cuts off with "That's all I know."
I want to run, but Finnick's acting so strange, as if he's
lost the ability to move, so I take his hand and lead him like
a small child. Through Special Defense, into the elevator
that goes this way and that, and on to the hospital wing. The
place is in an uproar, with doctors shouting orders and the
wounded being wheeled through the halls in their beds.
We're sideswiped by a gurney bearing an
unconscious, emaciated young woman with a shaved head.
Her flesh shows bruises and oozing scabs. Johanna
Mason. Who actually knew rebel secrets. At least the one
about me. And this is how she has paid for it.
Through a doorway, I catch a glimpse of Gale, stripped
to the waist, perspiration streaming down his face as a
doctor removes something from under his shoulder blade
with a long pair of tweezers. Wounded, but alive. I call his
name, start toward him until a nurse pushes me back and
shuts me out.
"Finnick!" Something between a shriek and a cry of
joy. A lovely if somewhat bedraggled young woman--dark
tangled hair, sea green eyes--runs toward us in nothing but
a sheet. "Finnick!" And suddenly, it's as if there's no one in
the world but these two, crashing through space to reach
each other. They collide, enfold, lose their balance, and
slam against a wall, where they stay. Clinging into one
being. Indivisible.
A pang of jealousy hits me. Not for either Finnick or
Annie but for their certainty. No one seeing them could
doubt their love.
Boggs, looking a little worse for wear but uninjured,
finds Haymitch and me. "We got them all out. Except
Enobaria. But since she's from Two, we doubt she's being
held anyway. Peeta's at the end of the hall. The effects of
the gas are just wearing off. You should be there when he
wakes."
Peeta.
Alive and well--maybe not well but alive and here.
Away from Snow. Safe. Here. With me. In a minute I can
touch him. See his smile. Hear his laugh.
Haymitch's grinning at me. "Come on, then," he says.
I'm light-headed with giddiness. What will I say? Oh,
who cares what I say? Peeta will be ecstatic no matter what
I do. He'll probably be kissing me anyway. I wonder if it will
feel like those last kisses on the beach in the arena, the
ones I haven't dared let myself consider until this moment.
Peeta's awake already, sitting on the side of the bed,
looking bewildered as a trio of doctors reassure him, flash
lights in his eyes, check his pulse. I'm disappointed that
mine was not the first face he saw when he woke, but he
sees it now. His features register disbelief and something
more intense that I can't quite place. Desire? Desperation?
Surely both, for he sweeps the doctors aside, leaps to his
feet, and moves toward me. I run to meet him, my arms
extended to embrace him. His hands are reaching for me,
too, to caress my face, I think.
My lips are just forming his name when his fingers lock
around my throat.
13
The cold collar chafes my neck and makes the
shivering even harder to control. At least I am no longer in
the claustrophobic tube, while the machines click and whir
around me, listening to a disembodied voice telling me to
hold still while I try to convince myself I can still breathe.
Even now, when I've been assured there will be no
permanent damage, I hunger for air.
The medical team's main concerns--damage to my
spinal cord, airway, veins, and arteries--have been allayed.
Bruising, hoarseness, the sore larynx, this strange little
cough--not to be worried about. It will all be fine. The
Mockingjay will not lose her voice. Where, I want to ask, is
the doctor who determines if I am losing my mind? Only I'm
not supposed to talk right now. I can't even thank Boggs
when he comes to check on me. To look me over and tell
me he's seen a lot worse injuries among the soldiers when
they teach choke holds in training.
It was Boggs who knocked out Peeta with one blow
before any permanent damage could be done. I know
Haymitch would have come to my defense if he hadn't been
utterly unprepared. To catch both Haymitch and myself off
guard is a rare thing. But we have been so consumed with
saving Peeta, so tortured by having him in the Capitol's
hands, that the elation at having him back blinded us. If I'd
had a private reunion with Peeta, he would have killed me.
Now that he's deranged.
No, not deranged, I remind myself. Hijacked. That's
the word I heard pass between Plutarch and Haymitch as I
was wheeled past them in the hallway. Hijacked. I don't
know what it means.
Prim, who appeared moments after the attack and has
stayed as close to me as possible ever since, spreads
another blanket over me. "I think they'll take the collar off
soon, Katniss. You won't be so cold then." My mother,
who's been assisting in a complicated surgery, has still not
been informed of Peeta's assault. Prim takes one of my
hands, which is clutched in a fist, and massages it until it
opens and blood begins to flow through my fingers again.
She's starting on the second fist when the doctors show up,
remove the collar, and give me a shot of something for pain
and swelling. I lie, as instructed, with my head still, not
aggravating the injuries to my neck.
Plutarch, Haymitch, and Beetee have been waiting in
the hall for the doctors to give them clearance to see me. I
don't know if they've told Gale, but since he's not here, I
assume they haven't. Plutarch ushers the doctors out and
tries to order Prim to go as well, but she says, "No. If you
force me to leave, I'll go directly to surgery and tell my
mother everything that's happened. And I warn you, she
doesn't think much of a Gamemaker calling the shots on
Katniss's life. Especially when you've taken such poor care
of her."
Plutarch looks offended, but Haymitch chuckles. "I'd let
it go, Plutarch," he says. Prim stays.
"So, Katniss, Peeta's condition has come as a shock
to all of us," says Plutarch. "We couldn't help but notice his
deterioration in the last two interviews. Obviously, he'd
been abused, and we put his psychological state down to
that. Now we believe something more was going on. That
the Capitol has been subjecting him to a rather uncommon
technique known as hijacking. Beetee?"
"I'm sorry," Beetee says, "but I can't tell you all the
specifics of it, Katniss. The Capitol's very secretive about
this form of torture, and I believe the results are
inconsistent. This we do know. It's a type of fear
conditioning. The term hijack comes from an old English
word that means 'to capture,' or even better, 'seize.' We
believe it was chosen because the technique involves the
use of tracker jacker venom, and the jack suggested
hijack. You were stung in your first Hunger Games, so
unlike most of us, you have firsthand knowledge of the
effects of the venom."
Terror. Hallucinations. Nightmarish visions of losing
those I love. Because the venom targets the part of the
brain that houses fear.
"I'm sure you remember how frightening it was. Did you
also suffer mental confusion in the aftermath?" asks
Beetee. "A sense of being unable to judge what was true
and what was false? Most people who have been stung
and lived to tell about it report something of the kind."
Yes. That encounter with Peeta. Even after I was
clearheaded, I wasn't sure if he had saved my life by taking
on Cato or if I'd imagined it.
"Recall is made more difficult because memories can
be changed." Beetee taps his forehead. "Brought to the
forefront of your mind, altered, and saved again in the
revised form. Now imagine that I ask you to remember
something--either with a verbal suggestion or by making
you watch a tape of the event--and while that experience is
refreshed, I give you a dose of tracker jacker venom. Not
enough to induce a three-day blackout. Just enough to
infuse the memory with fear and doubt. And that's what your
brain puts in long-term storage."
I start to feel sick. Prim asks the question that's in my
mind. "Is that what they've done to Peeta? Taken his
memories of Katniss and distorted them so they're scary?"
Beetee nods. "So scary that he'd see her as lifethreatening.
That he might try to kill her. Yes, that's our
current theory."
I cover my face with my arms because this isn't
happening. It isn't possible. For someone to make Peeta
forget he loves me...no one could do that.
"But you can reverse it, right?" asks Prim.
"Um...very little data on that," says Plutarch. "None,
really. If hijacking rehabilitation has been attempted before,
we have no access to those records."
"Well, you're going to try, aren't you?" Prim persists.
"You're not just going to lock him up in some padded room
and leave him to suffer?"
"Of course, we'll try, Prim," says Beetee. "It's just, we
don't know to what degree we'll succeed. If any. My guess
is that fearful events are the hardest to root out. They're the
ones we naturally remember the best, after all."
"And apart from his memories of Katniss, we don't yet
know what else has been tampered with," says Plutarch.
"We're putting together a team of mental health and military
professionals to come up with a counterattack. I, personally,
feel optimistic that he'll make a full recovery."
"Do you?" asks Prim caustically. "And what do you
think, Haymitch?"
I shift my arms slightly so I can see his expression
through the crack. He's exhausted and discouraged as he
admits, "I think Peeta might get somewhat better. But...I
don't think he'll ever be the same." I snap my arms back
together, closing the crack, shutting them all out.
"At least he's alive," says Plutarch, as if he's losing
patience with the lot of us. "Snow executed Peeta's stylist
and his prep team on live television tonight. We've no idea
what happened to Effie Trinket. Peeta's damaged, but he's
here. With us. And that's a definite improvement over his
situation twelve hours ago. Let's keep that in mind, all
right?"
Plutarch's attempt to cheer me up--laced with the news
of another four, possibly five, murders--somehow backfires.
Portia. Peeta's prep team. Effie. The effort to fight back
tears makes my throat throb until I'm gasping again.
Eventually, they have no choice but to sedate me.
When I wake, I wonder if this will be the only way I
sleep now, with drugs shot into my arm. I'm glad I'm not
supposed to talk for the next few days, because there's
nothing I want to say. Or do. In fact, I'm a model patient, my
lethargy taken for restraint, obedience to the doctors'
orders. I no longer feel like crying. In fact, I can only manage
to hold on to one simple thought: an image of Snow's face
accompanied by the whisper in my head. I will kill you.
My mother and Prim take turns nursing me, coaxing
me to swallow bites of soft food. People come in
periodically to give me updates on Peeta's condition. The
high levels of tracker jacker venom are working their way
out of his body. He's being treated only by strangers,
natives of 13--no one from home or the Capitol has been
allowed to see him--to keep any dangerous memories from
triggering. A team of specialists works long hours
designing a strategy for his recovery.
Gale's not supposed to visit me, as he's confined to
bed with some kind of shoulder wound. But on the third
night, after I've been medicated and the lights turned down
low for bedtime, he slips silently into my room. He doesn't
speak, just runs his fingers over the bruises on my neck
with a touch as light as moth wings, plants a kiss between
my eyes, and disappears.
The next morning, I'm discharged from the hospital with
instructions to move quietly and speak only when
necessary. I'm not imprinted with a schedule, so I wander
around aimlessly until Prim's excused from her hospital
duties to take me to our family's latest compartment. 2212.
Identical to the last one, but with no window.
Buttercup has now been issued a daily food allowance
and a pan of sand that's kept under the bathroom sink. As
Prim tucks me into bed, he hops up on my pillow, vying for
her attention. She cradles him but stays focused on me.
"Katniss, I know this whole thing with Peeta is terrible for
you. But remember, Snow worked on him for weeks, and
we've only had him for a few days. There's a chance that
the old Peeta, the one who loves you, is still inside. Trying
to get back to you. Don't give up on him."
I look at my little sister and think how she has inherited
the best qualities our family has to offer: my mother's
healing hands, my father's level head, and my fight. There's
something else there as well, something entirely her own.
An ability to look into the confusing mess of life and see
things for what they are. Is it possible she could be right?
That Peeta could return to me?
"I have to get back to the hospital," Prim says, placing
Buttercup on the bed beside me. "You two keep each other
company, okay?"
Buttercup springs off the bed and follows her to the
door, complaining loudly when he's left behind. We're about
as much company for each other as dirt. After maybe thirty
seconds, I know I can't stand being confined in the
subterranean cell, and leave Buttercup to his own devices. I
get lost several times, but eventually I make my way down
to Special Defense. Everyone I pass stares at the bruises,
and I can't help feeling self-conscious to the point that I tug
my collar up to my ears.
Gale must have been released from the hospital this
morning as well, because I find him in one of the research
rooms with Beetee. They're immersed, heads bent over a
drawing, taking a measurement. Versions of the picture
litter the table and floor. Tacked on the corkboard walls and
occupying several computer screens are other designs of
some sort. In the rough lines of one, I recognize Gale's
twitch-up snare. "What are these?" I ask hoarsely, pulling
their attention from the sheet.
"Ah, Katniss, you've found us out," says Beetee
cheerfully.
"What? Is this a secret?" I know Gale's been down
here working with Beetee a lot, but I assumed they were
messing around with bows and guns.
"Not really. But I've felt a little guilty about it. Stealing
Gale away from you so much," Beetee admits.
Since I've spent most of my time in 13 disoriented,
worried, angry, being remade, or hospitalized, I can't say
Gale's absences have inconvenienced me. Things haven't
been exactly harmonious between us, either. But I let
Beetee think he owes me. "I hope you've been putting his
time to good use."
"Come and see," he says, waving me over to a
computer screen.
This is what they've been doing. Taking the
fundamental ideas behind Gale's traps and adapting them
into weapons against humans. Bombs mostly. It's less
about the mechanics of the traps than the psychology
behind them. Booby-trapping an area that provides
something essential to survival. A water or food supply.
Frightening prey so that a large number flee into a greater
destruction. Endangering off-spring in order to draw in the
actual desired target, the parent. Luring the victim into what
appears to be a safe haven--where death awaits it. At
some point, Gale and Beetee left the wilderness behind
and focused on more human impulses. Like compassion. A
bomb explodes. Time is allowed for people to rush to the
aid of the wounded. Then a second, more powerful bomb
kills them as well.
"That seems to be crossing some kind of line," I say.
"So anything goes?" They both stare at me--Beetee with
doubt, Gale with hostility. "I guess there isn't a rule book for
what might be unacceptable to do to another human being."
"Sure there is. Beetee and I have been following the
same rule book President Snow used when he hijacked
Peeta," says Gale.
Cruel, but to the point. I leave without further comment. I
feel if I don't get outside immediately, I'll just go ballistic, but
I'm still in Special Defense when I'm waylaid by Haymitch.
"Come on," he says. "We need you back up at the
hospital."
"What for?" I ask.
"They're going to try something on Peeta," he answers.
"Send in the most innocuous person from Twelve they can
come up with. Find someone Peeta might share childhood
memories with, but nothing too close to you. They're
screening people now."
I know this will be a difficult task, since anyone Peeta
shares childhood memories with would most likely be from
town, and almost none of those people escaped the
flames. But when we reach the hospital room that has been
turned into a work space for Peeta's recovery team, there
she sits chatting with Plutarch. Delly Cartwright. As always,
she gives me a smile that suggests I'm her best friend in
the world. She gives this smile to everyone. "Katniss!" she
calls out.
"Hey, Delly," I say. I'd heard she and her younger
brother had survived. Her parents, who ran the shoe shop in
town, weren't as lucky. She looks older, wearing the drab
13 clothes that flatter no one, with her long yellow hair in a
practical braid instead of curls. Delly's a bit thinner than I
remember, but she was one of the few kids in District 12
with a couple of pounds to spare. The diet here, the stress,
the grief of losing her parents have all, no doubt,
contributed. "How are you doing?" I ask.
"Oh, it's been a lot of changes all at once." Her eyes fill
with tears. "But everyone's really nice here in Thirteen, don't
you think?"
Delly means it. She genuinely likes people. All people,
not just a select few she's spent years making up her mind
about.
"They've made an effort to make us feel welcome," I
say. I think that's a fair statement without going overboard.
"Are you the one they've picked to see Peeta?"
"I guess so. Poor Peeta. Poor you. I'll never
understand the Capitol," she says.
"Better not to, maybe," I tell her.
"Delly's known Peeta for a long time," says Plutarch.
"Oh, yes!" Delly's face brightens. "We played together
from when we were little. I used to tell people he was my
brother."
"What do you think?" Haymitch asks me. "Anything that
might trigger memories of you?"
"We were all in the same class. But we never
overlapped much," I say.
"Katniss was always so amazing, I never dreamed she
would notice me," says Delly. "The way she could hunt and
go in the Hob and everything. Everyone admired her so."
Haymitch and I both have to take a hard look at her
face to double-check if she's joking. To hear Delly describe
it, I had next to no friends because I intimidated people by
being so exceptional. Not true. I had next to no friends
because I wasn't friendly. Leave it to Delly to spin me into
something wonderful.
"Delly always thinks the best of everyone," I explain. "I
don't think Peeta could have bad memories associated
with her." Then I remember. "Wait. In the Capitol. When I
lied about recognizing the Avox girl. Peeta covered for me
and said she looked like Delly."
"I remember," says Haymitch. "But I don't know. It
wasn't true. Delly wasn't actually there. I don't think it can
compete with years of childhood memories."
"Especially with such a pleasant companion as Delly,"
says Plutarch. "Let's give it a shot."
Plutarch, Haymitch, and I go to the observation room
next to where Peeta's confined. It's crowded with ten
members of his recovery team armed with pens and
clipboards. The one-way glass and audio setup allow us to
watch Peeta secretly. He lies on the bed, his arms
strapped down. He doesn't fight the restraints, but his
hands fidget continuously. His expression seems more
lucid than when he tried to strangle me, but it's still not one
that belongs to him.
When the door quietly opens, his eyes widen in alarm,
then become confused. Delly crosses the room tentatively,
but as she nears him she naturally breaks into a smile.
"Peeta? It's Delly. From home."
"Delly?" Some of the clouds seem to clear. "Delly. It's
you."
"Yes!" she says with obvious relief. "How do you feel?"
"Awful. Where are we? What's happened?" asks
Peeta.
"Here we go," says Haymitch.
"I told her to steer clear of any mention of Katniss or
the Capitol," says Plutarch. "Just see how much of home
she could conjure up."
"Well...we're in District Thirteen. We live here now,"
says Delly.
"That's what those people have been saying. But it
makes no sense. Why aren't we home?" asks Peeta.
Delly bites her lip. "There was...an accident. I miss
home badly, too. I was only just thinking about those chalk
drawings we used to do on the paving stones. Yours were
so wonderful. Remember when you made each one a
different animal?"
"Yeah. Pigs and cats and things," says Peeta. "You
said...about an accident?"
