      is inconceivable—he would be like a novel without a plot, which
      is well-known to be an anomaly.

      To Forsyte eyes Bosinney appeared to have no habitat, he seemed
      one of those rare and unfortunate men who go through life
      surrounded by circumstance, property, acquaintances, and wives
      that do not belong to them.

      His rooms in Sloane Street, on the top floor, outside which, on a
      plate, was his name, “Philip Baynes Bosinney, Architect,” were
      not those of a Forsyte. He had no sitting-room apart from his
      office, but a large recess had been screened off to conceal the
      necessaries of life—a couch, an easy chair, his pipes, spirit
      case, novels and slippers. The business part of the room had the
      usual furniture; an open cupboard with pigeon-holes, a round oak
      table, a folding wash-stand, some hard chairs, a standing desk of
      large dimensions covered with drawings and designs. June had
      twice been to tea there under the chaperonage of his aunt.

      He was believed to have a bedroom at the back.

      As far as the family had been able to ascertain his income, it
      consisted of two consulting appointments at twenty pounds a year,
      together with an odd fee once in a way, and—more worthy item—a
      private annuity under his father’s will of one hundred and fifty
      pounds a year.

      What had transpired concerning that father was not so reassuring.
      It appeared that he had been a Lincolnshire country doctor of
      Cornish extraction, striking appearance, and Byronic tendencies—a
      well-known figure, in fact, in his county. Bosinney’s uncle by
      marriage, Baynes, of Baynes and Bildeboy, a Forsyte in instincts
      if not in name, had but little that was worthy to relate of his
      brother-in-law.

      “An odd fellow!” he would say: “always spoke of his three eldest
      boys as ‘good creatures, but so dull’; they’re all doing
      capitally in the Indian Civil! Philip was the only one _he_
      liked. I’ve heard him talk in the queerest way; he once said to
      me: ‘My dear fellow, never let your poor wife know what you’re
      thinking of!’ But I didn’t follow his advice; not I! An eccentric
      man! He would say to Phil: ‘Whether you live like a gentleman or
      not, my boy, be sure you die like one!’ and he had himself
      embalmed in a frock coat suit, with a satin cravat and a diamond
      pin. Oh, quite an original, I can assure you!”

      Of Bosinney himself Baynes would speak warmly, with a certain
      compassion: “He’s got a streak of his father’s Byronism. Why,
      look at the way he threw up his chances when he left my office;
      going off like that for six months with a knapsack, and all for
      what?—to study foreign architecture—foreign! What could he
      expect? And there he is—a clever young fellow—doesn’t make his
      hundred a year! Now this engagement is the best thing that could
      have happened—keep him steady; he’s one of those that go to bed
      all day and stay up all night, simply because they’ve no method;
      but no vice about him—not an ounce of vice. Old Forsyte’s a rich
      man!”

      Mr. Baynes made himself extremely pleasant to June, who
      frequently visited his house in Lowndes Square at this period.

      “This house of your cousin’s—what a capital man of business—is
      the very thing for Philip,” he would say to her; “you mustn’t
      expect to see too much of him just now, my dear young lady. The
      good cause—the good cause! The young man must make his way. When
      I was his age I was at work day and night. My dear wife used to
      say to me, ‘Bobby, don’t work too hard, think of your health’;
      but I never spared myself!”

      June had complained that her lover found no time to come to
      Stanhope Gate.

      The first time he came again they had not been together a quarter
      of an hour before, by one of those coincidences of which she was
      a mistress, Mrs. Septimus Small arrived. Thereon Bosinney rose
      and hid himself, according to previous arrangement, in the little
      study, to wait for her departure.

      “My dear,” said Aunt Juley, “how thin he is! I’ve often noticed
      it with engaged people; but you mustn’t let it get worse. There’s
      Barlow’s extract of veal; it did your Uncle Swithin a lot of
      good.”

      June, her little figure erect before the hearth, her small face
      quivering grimly, for she regarded her aunt’s untimely visit in
      the light of a personal injury, replied with scorn:

      “It’s because he’s busy; people who can do anything worth doing
      are never fat!”

      Aunt Juley pouted; she herself had always been thin, but the only
      pleasure she derived from the fact was the opportunity of longing
      to be stouter.

      “I don’t think,” she said mournfully, “that you ought to let them
      call him ‘The Buccaneer’; people might think it odd, now that
      he’s going to build a house for Soames. I do hope he will be
      careful; it’s so important for him. Soames has such good taste!”

      “Taste!” cried June, flaring up at once; “wouldn’t give that for
      his taste, or any of the family’s!”

      Mrs. Small was taken aback.

      “Your Uncle Swithin,” she said, “always had beautiful taste! And
      Soames’s little house is lovely; you don’t mean to say you don’t
      think so!”

      “H’mph!” said June, “that’s only because Irene’s there!”

      Aunt Juley tried to say something pleasant:

      “And how will dear Irene like living in the country?”

      June gazed at her intently, with a look in her eyes as if her
      conscience had suddenly leaped up into them; it passed; and an
      even more intent look took its place, as if she had stared that
      conscience out of countenance. She replied imperiously:

      “Of course she’ll like it; why shouldn’t she?”

      Mrs. Small grew nervous.

      “I didn’t know,” she said; “I thought she mightn’t like to leave
      her friends. Your Uncle James says she doesn’t take enough
      interest in life. _We_ think—I mean Timothy thinks—she ought to
      go out more. I expect you’ll miss her very much!”

      June clasped her hands behind her neck.

      “I do wish,” she cried, “Uncle Timothy wouldn’t talk about what
      doesn’t concern him!”

      Aunt Juley rose to the full height of her tall figure.

      “He never talks about what doesn’t concern him,” she said.

      June was instantly compunctious; she ran to her aunt and kissed
      her.

      “I’m very sorry, auntie; but I wish they’d let Irene alone.”

      Aunt Juley, unable to think of anything further on the subject
      that would be suitable, was silent; she prepared for departure,
      hooking her black silk cape across her chest, and, taking up her
      green reticule:

      “And how is your dear grandfather?” she asked in the hall, “I
      expect he’s very lonely now that all your time is taken up with
      Mr. Bosinney.”

      She bent and kissed her niece hungrily, and with little, mincing
      steps passed away.

      The tears sprang up in Jun’s eyes; running into the little study,
      where Bosinney was sitting at the table drawing birds on the back
      of an envelope, she sank down by his side and cried:

      “Oh, Phil! it’s all so horrid!” Her heart was as warm as the
      colour of her hair.

      On the following Sunday morning, while Soames was shaving, a
      message was brought him to the effect that Mr. Bosinney was
      below, and would be glad to see him. Opening the door into his
      wife’s room, he said:

      “Bosinney’s downstairs. Just go and entertain him while I finish
      shaving. I’ll be down in a minute. It’s about the plans, I
      expect.”

      Irene looked at him, without reply, put the finishing touch to
      her dress and went downstairs. He could not make her out about
      this house. She had said nothing against it, and, as far as
      Bosinney was concerned, seemed friendly enough.

      From the window of his dressing-room he could see them talking
      together in the little court below. He hurried on with his
      shaving, cutting his chin twice. He heard them laugh, and thought
      to himself: “Well, they get on all right, anyway!”

      As he expected, Bosinney had come round to fetch him to look at
      the plans.

      He took his hat and went over.

      The plans were spread on the oak table in the architect’s room;
      and pale, imperturbable, inquiring, Soames bent over them for a
      long time without speaking.

      He said at last in a puzzled voice:

      “It’s an odd sort of house!”

      A rectangular house of two stories was designed in a quadrangle
      round a covered-in court. This court, encircled by a gallery on
      the upper floor, was roofed with a glass roof, supported by eight
      columns running up from the ground.

      It was indeed, to Forsyte eyes, an odd house.

      “There’s a lot of room cut to waste,” pursued Soames.

      Bosinney began to walk about, and Soames did not like the
      expression on his face.

      “The principle of this house,” said the architect, “was that you
      should have room to breathe—like a gentleman!”

      Soames extended his finger and thumb, as if measuring the extent
      of the distinction he should acquire; and replied:

      “Oh! yes; I see.”

      The peculiar look came into Bosinney’s face which marked all his
      enthusiasms.

      “I’ve tried to plan you a house here with some self-respect of
      its own. If you don’t like it, you’d better say so. It’s
      certainly the last thing to be considered—who wants self-respect
      in a house, when you can squeeze in an extra lavatory?” He put
      his finger suddenly down on the left division of the centre
      oblong: “You can swing a cat here. This is for your pictures,
      divided from this court by curtains; draw them back and you’ll
      have a space of fifty-one by twenty-three six. This double-faced
      stove in the centre, here, looks one way towards the court, one
      way towards the picture room; this end wall is all window; you’ve
      a southeast light from that, a north light from the court. The
      rest of your pictures you can hang round the gallery upstairs, or
      in the other rooms.” “In architecture,” he went on—and though
      looking at Soames he did not seem to see him, which gave Soames
      an unpleasant feeling—“as in life, you’ll get no self-respect
      without regularity. Fellows tell you that’s old fashioned. It
      appears to be peculiar any way; it never occurs to us to embody
      the main principle of life in our buildings; we load our houses
      with decoration, gimcracks, corners, anything to distract the
      eye. On the contrary the eye should rest; get your effects with a
      few strong lines. The whole thing is regularity—there’s no
      self-respect without it.”

      Soames, the unconscious ironist, fixed his gaze on Bosinney’s
      tie, which was far from being in the perpendicular; he was
      unshaven too, and his dress not remarkable for order.
      Architecture appeared to have exhausted his regularity.

      “Won’t it look like a barrack?” he inquired.

      He did not at once receive a reply.

      “I can see what it is,” said Bosinney, “you want one of
      Littlemaster’s houses—one of the pretty and commodious sort,
      where the servants will live in garrets, and the front door be
      sunk so that you may come up again. By all means try
      Littlemaster, you’ll find him a capital fellow, I’ve known him
      all my life!”

      Soames was alarmed. He had really been struck by the plans, and
      the concealment of his satisfaction had been merely instinctive.
      It was difficult for him to pay a compliment. He despised people
      who were lavish with their praises.

      He found himself now in the embarrassing position of one who must
      pay a compliment or run the risk of losing a good thing. Bosinney
      was just the fellow who might tear up the plans and refuse to act
      for him; a kind of grown-up child!

      This grown-up childishness, to which he felt so superior,
      exercised a peculiar and almost mesmeric effect on Soames, for he
      had never felt anything like it in himself.

      “Well,” he stammered at last, “it’s—it’s, certainly original.”

      He had such a private distrust and even dislike of the word
      “original” that he felt he had not really given himself away by
      this remark.

      Bosinney seemed pleased. It was the sort of thing that would
      please a fellow like that! And his success encouraged Soames.

      “It’s—a big place,” he said.

      “Space, air, light,” he heard Bosinney murmur, “you can’t live
      like a gentleman in one of Littlemaster’s—he builds for
      manufacturers.”

      Soames made a deprecating movement; he had been identified with a
      gentleman; not for a good deal of money now would he be classed
      with manufacturers. But his innate distrust of general principles
      revived. What the deuce was the good of talking about regularity
      and self-respect? It looked to him as if the house would be cold.

      “Irene can’t stand the cold!” he said.

      “Ah!” said Bosinney sarcastically. “Your wife? She doesn’t like
      the cold? I’ll see to that; she shan’t be cold. Look here!” he
      pointed, to four marks at regular intervals on the walls of the
      court. “I’ve given you hot-water pipes in aluminium casings; you
      can get them with very good designs.”

      Soames looked suspiciously at these marks.

      “It’s all very well, all this,” he said, “but what’s it going to
      cost?”

      The architect took a sheet of paper from his pocket:

      “The house, of course, should be built entirely of stone, but, as
      I thought you wouldn’t stand that, I’ve compromised for a facing.
      It ought to have a copper roof, but I’ve made it green slate. As
      it is, including metal work, it’ll cost you eight thousand five
      hundred.”

      “Eight thousand five hundred?” said Soames. “Why, I gave you an
      outside limit of eight!”

      “Can’t be done for a penny less,” replied Bosinney coolly.

      “You must take it or leave it!”

      It was the only way, probably, that such a proposition could have
      been made to Soames. He was nonplussed. Conscience told him to
      throw the whole thing up. But the design was good, and he knew
      it—there was completeness about it, and dignity; the servants’
      apartments were excellent too. He would gain credit by living in
      a house like that—with such individual features, yet perfectly
      well-arranged.

      He continued poring over the plans, while Bosinney went into his
      bedroom to shave and dress.

      The two walked back to Montpellier Square in silence, Soames
      watching him out of the corner of his eye.

      The Buccaneer was rather a good-looking fellow—so he thought—when
      he was properly got up.

      Irene was bending over her flowers when the two men came in.

      She spoke of sending across the Park to fetch June.

      “No, no,” said Soames, “we’ve still got business to talk over!”

      At lunch he was almost cordial, and kept pressing Bosinney to
      eat. He was pleased to see the architect in such high spirits,
      and left him to spend the afternoon with Irene, while he stole
      off to his pictures, after his Sunday habit. At tea-time he came
      down to the drawing-room, and found them talking, as he expressed
      it, nineteen to the dozen.

      Unobserved in the doorway, he congratulated himself that things
      were taking the right turn. It was lucky she and Bosinney got on;
      she seemed to be falling into line with the idea of the new
      house.

      Quiet meditation among his pictures had decided him to spring the
      five hundred if necessary; but he hoped that the afternoon might
      have softened Bosinney’s estimates. It was so purely a matter
      which Bosinney could remedy if he liked; there must be a dozen
      ways in which he could cheapen the production of a house without
      spoiling the effect.

      He awaited, therefore, his opportunity till Irene was handing the
      architect his first cup of tea. A chink of sunshine through the
      lace of the blinds warmed her cheek, shone in the gold of her
      hair, and in her soft eyes. Possibly the same gleam deepened
      Bosinney’s colour, gave the rather startled look to his face.

      Soames hated sunshine, and he at once got up, to draw the blind.
      Then he took his own cup of tea from his wife, and said, more
      coldly than he had intended:

      “Can’t you see your way to do it for eight thousand after all?
      There must be a lot of little things you could alter.”

      Bosinney drank off his tea at a gulp, put down his cup, and
      answered:

      “Not one!”

      Soames saw that his suggestion had touched some unintelligible
      point of personal vanity.

      “Well,” he agreed, with sulky resignation; “you must have it your
      own way, I suppose.”

      A few minutes later Bosinney rose to go, and Soames rose too, to
      see him off the premises. The architect seemed in absurdly high
      spirits. After watching him walk away at a swinging pace, Soames
      returned moodily to the drawing-room, where Irene was putting
      away the music, and, moved by an uncontrollable spasm of
      curiosity, he asked:

      “Well, what do you think of ‘The Buccaneer’?”

      He looked at the carpet while waiting for her answer, and he had
      to wait some time.

      “I don’t know,” she said at last.

      “Do you think he’s good-looking?”

      Irene smiled. And it seemed to Soames that she was mocking him.

      “Yes,” she answered; “very.”




      CHAPTER IX DEATH OF AUNT ANN

      There came a morning at the end of September when Aunt Ann was
      unable to take from Smither’s hands the insignia of personal
      dignity. After one look at the old face, the doctor, hurriedly
      sent for, announced that Miss Forsyte had passed away in her
      sleep.

      Aunts Juley and Hester were overwhelmed by the shock. They had
      never imagined such an ending. Indeed, it is doubtful whether
      they had ever realized that an ending was bound to come. Secretly
      they felt it unreasonable of Ann to have left them like this
      without a word, without even a struggle. It was unlike her.

      Perhaps what really affected them so profoundly was the thought
      that a Forsyte should have let go her grasp on life. If one, then
      why not all!

      It was a full hour before they could make up their minds to tell
      Timothy. If only it could be kept from him! If only it could be
      broken to him by degrees!

      And long they stood outside his door whispering together. And
      when it was over they whispered together again.

      He would feel it more, they were afraid, as time went on. Still,
      he had taken it better than could have been expected. He would
      keep his bed, of course!

      They separated, crying quietly.

      Aunt Juley stayed in her room, prostrated by the blow. Her face,
      discoloured by tears, was divided into compartments by the little
      ridges of pouting flesh which had swollen with emotion. It was
      impossible to conceive of life without Ann, who had lived with
      her for seventy-three years, broken only by the short interregnum
      of her married life, which seemed now so unreal. At fixed
      intervals she went to her drawer, and took from beneath the
      lavender bags a fresh pocket-handkerchief. Her warm heart could
      not bear the thought that Ann was lying there so cold.

      Aunt Hester, the silent, the patient, that backwater of the
      family energy, sat in the drawing-room, where the blinds were
      drawn; and she, too, had wept at first, but quietly, without
      visible effect. Her guiding principle, the conservation of
      energy, did not abandon her in sorrow. She sat, slim, motionless,
      studying the grate, her hands idle in the lap of her black silk
      dress. They would want to rouse her into doing something, no
      doubt. As if there were any good in that! Doing something would
      not bring back Ann! Why worry her?

      Five o’clock brought three of the brothers, Jolyon and James and
      Swithin; Nicholas was at Yarmouth, and Roger had a bad attack of
      gout. Mrs. Hayman had been by herself earlier in the day, and,
      after seeing Ann, had gone away, leaving a message for
      Timothy—which was kept from him—that she ought to have been told
      sooner. In fact, there was a feeling amongst them all that they
      ought to have been told sooner, as though they had missed
      something; and James said:

      “I knew how it’d be; I told you she wouldn’t last through the
      summer.”

      Aunt Hester made no reply; it was nearly October, but what was
      the good of arguing; some people were never satisfied.

      She sent up to tell her sister that the brothers were there. Mrs.
      Small came down at once. She had bathed her face, which was still
      swollen, and though she looked severely at Swithin’s trousers,
      for they were of light blue—he had come straight from the club,
      where the news had reached him—she wore a more cheerful
      expression than usual, the instinct for doing the wrong thing
      being even now too strong for her.

      Presently all five went up to look at the body. Under the pure
      white sheet a quilted counter-pane had been placed, for now, more
      than ever, Aunt Ann had need of warmth; and, the pillows removed,
      her spine and head rested flat, with the semblance of their
      life-long inflexibility; the coif banding the top of her brow was
      drawn on either side to the level of the ears, and between it and
      the sheet her face, almost as white, was turned with closed eyes
      to the faces of her brothers and sisters. In its extraordinary
      peace the face was stronger than ever, nearly all bone now under
      the scarce-wrinkled parchment of skin—square jaw and chin,
      cheekbones, forehead with hollow temples, chiselled nose—the
      fortress of an unconquerable spirit that had yielded to death,
      and in its upward sightlessness seemed trying to regain that
      spirit, to regain the guardianship it had just laid down.

      Swithin took but one look at the face, and left the room; the
      sight, he said afterwards, made him very queer. He went
      downstairs shaking the whole house, and, seizing his hat,
      clambered into his brougham, without giving any directions to the
      coachman. He was driven home, and all the evening sat in his
      chair without moving.

      He could take nothing for dinner but a partridge, with an
      imperial pint of champagne....

      Old Jolyon stood at the bottom of the bed, his hands folded in
      front of him. He alone of those in the room remembered the death
      of his mother, and though he looked at Ann, it was of that he was
      thinking. Ann was an old woman, but death had come to her at
      last—death came to all! His face did not move, his gaze seemed
      travelling from very far.

      Aunt Hester stood beside him. She did not cry now, tears were
      exhausted—her nature refused to permit a further escape of force;
      she twisted her hands, looking not at Ann, but from side to side,
      seeking some way of escaping the effort of realization.

      Of all the brothers and sisters James manifested the most
      emotion. Tears rolled down the parallel furrows of his thin face;
      where he should go now to tell his troubles he did not know;
      Juley was no good, Hester worse than useless! He felt Ann’s death
      more than he had ever thought he should; this would upset him for
      weeks!

      Presently Aunt Hester stole out, and Aunt Juley began moving
      about, doing “what was necessary,” so that twice she knocked
      against something. Old Jolyon, roused from his reverie, that
      reverie of the long, long past, looked sternly at her, and went
      away. James alone was left by the bedside; glancing stealthily
      round, to see that he was not observed, he twisted his long body
      down, placed a kiss on the dead forehead, then he, too, hastily
      left the room. Encountering Smither in the hall, he began to ask
      her about the funeral, and, finding that she knew nothing,
      complained bitterly that, if they didn’t take care, everything
      would go wrong. She had better send for Mr. Soames—he knew all
      about that sort of thing; her master was very much upset, he
      supposed—he would want looking after; as for her mistresses, they
      were no good—they had no gumption! They would be ill too, he
      shouldn’t wonder. She had better send for the doctor; it was best
      to take things in time. He didn’t think his sister Ann had had
      the best opinion; if she’d had Blank she would have been alive
      now. Smither might send to Park Lane any time she wanted advice.
      Of course, his carriage was at their service for the funeral. He
      supposed she hadn’t such a thing as a glass of claret and a
      biscuit—he had had no lunch!

      The days before the funeral passed quietly. It had long been
      known, of course, that Aunt Ann had left her little property to
      Timothy. There was, therefore, no reason for the slightest
      agitation. Soames, who was sole executor, took charge of all
      arrangements, and in due course sent out the following invitation
      to every male member of the family:

      _“To——
          “Your presence is requested at the funeral of Miss Ann
          Forsyte, in Highgate Cemetery, at noon of Oct. 1st. Carriages
          will meet at ‘The Bower,’ Bayswater Road, at 10.45. No
          flowers by request.
          “R.S.V.P.”_

      The morning came, cold, with a high, grey, London sky, and at
      half-past ten the first carriage, that of James, drove up. It
      contained James and his son-in-law Dartie, a fine man, with a
      square chest, buttoned very tightly into a frock coat, and a
      sallow, fattish face adorned with dark, well-curled moustaches,
      and that incorrigible commencement of whisker which, eluding the
      strictest attempts at shaving, seems the mark of something deeply
      ingrained in the personality of the shaver, being especially
      noticeable in men who speculate.

      Soames, in his capacity of executor, received the guests, for
      Timothy still kept his bed; he would get up after the funeral;
      and Aunts Juley and Hester would not be coming down till all was
      over, when it was understood there would be lunch for anyone who
      cared to come back. The next to arrive was Roger, still limping
      from the gout, and encircled by three of his sons—young Roger,
      Eustace, and Thomas. George, the remaining son, arrived almost
      immediately afterwards in a hansom, and paused in the hall to ask
      Soames how he found undertaking pay.

      They disliked each other.

      Then came two Haymans—Giles and Jesse perfectly silent, and very
      well dressed, with special creases down their evening trousers.
      Then old Jolyon alone. Next, Nicholas, with a healthy colour in
      his face, and a carefully veiled sprightliness in every movement
      of his head and body. One of his sons followed him, meek and
      subdued. Swithin Forsyte, and Bosinney arrived at the same
      moment,—and stood—bowing precedence to each other,—but on the
      door opening they tried to enter together; they renewed their
      apologies in the hall, and, Swithin, settling his stock, which
      had become disarranged in the struggle, very slowly mounted the
      stairs. The other Hayman; two married sons of Nicholas, together
      with Tweetyman, Spender, and Warry, the husbands of married
      Forsyte and Hayman daughters. The company was then complete,
      twenty-one in all, not a male member of the family being absent
      but Timothy and young Jolyon.

      Entering the scarlet and green drawing-room, whose apparel made
      so vivid a setting for their unaccustomed costumes, each tried
      nervously to find a seat, desirous of hiding the emphatic
      blackness of his trousers. There seemed a sort of indecency in
      that blackness and in the colour of their gloves—a sort of
      exaggeration of the feelings; and many cast shocked looks of
      secret envy at “the Buccaneer,” who had no gloves, and was
      wearing grey trousers. A subdued hum of conversation rose, no one
      speaking of the departed, but each asking after the other, as
      though thereby casting an indirect libation to this event, which
      they had come to honour.

      And presently James said:

      “Well, I think we ought to be starting.”

      They went downstairs, and, two and two, as they had been told off
      in strict precedence, mounted the carriages.

      The hearse started at a foot’s pace; the carriages moved slowly
      after. In the first went old Jolyon with Nicholas; in the second,
      the twins, Swithin and James; in the third, Roger and young
      Roger; Soames, young Nicholas, George, and Bosinney followed in
      the fourth. Each of the other carriages, eight in all, held three
      or four of the family; behind them came the doctor’s brougham;
      then, at a decent interval, cabs containing family clerks and
      servants; and at the very end, one containing nobody at all, but
      bringing the total cortege up to the number of thirteen.

      So long as the procession kept to the highway of the Bayswater
      Road, it retained the foot’s-pace, but, turning into less
      important thorough-fares, it soon broke into a trot, and so
      proceeded, with intervals of walking in the more fashionable
      streets, until it arrived. In the first carriage old Jolyon and
      Nicholas were talking of their wills. In the second the twins,
      after a single attempt, had lapsed into complete silence; both
      were rather deaf, and the exertion of making themselves heard was
      too great. Only once James broke this silence:

      “I shall have to be looking about for some ground somewhere. What
      arrangements have you made, Swithin?”

      And Swithin, fixing him with a dreadful stare, answered:

      “Don’t talk to me about such things!”

      In the third carriage a disjointed conversation was carried on in
      the intervals of looking out to see how far they had got, George
      remarking, “Well, it was really time that the poor old lady
      went.” He didn’t believe in people living beyond seventy, Young
      Nicholas replied mildly that the rule didn’t seem to apply to the
      Forsytes. George said he himself intended to commit suicide at
      sixty. Young Nicholas, smiling and stroking a long chin, didn’t
      think _his_ father would like that theory; he had made a lot of
      money since he was sixty. Well, seventy was the outside limit; it
      was then time, George said, for them to go and leave their money
      to their children. Soames, hitherto silent, here joined in; he
      had not forgotten the remark about the “undertaking,” and,
      lifting his eyelids almost imperceptibly, said it was all very
      well for people who never made money to talk. He himself intended
      to live as long as he could. This was a hit at George, who was
      notoriously hard up. Bosinney muttered abstractedly “Hear, hear!”
      and, George yawning, the conversation dropped.

      Upon arriving, the coffin was borne into the chapel, and, two by
      two, the mourners filed in behind it. This guard of men, all
      attached to the dead by the bond of kinship, was an impressive
      and singular sight in the great city of London, with its
      overwhelming diversity of life, its innumerable vocations,
      pleasures, duties, its terrible hardness, its terrible call to
      individualism.

      The family had gathered to triumph over all this, to give a show
      of tenacious unity, to illustrate gloriously that law of property
      underlying the growth of their tree, by which it had thriven and
      spread, trunk and branches, the sap flowing through all, the full
      growth reached at the appointed time. The spirit of the old woman
      lying in her last sleep had called them to this demonstration. It
      was her final appeal to that unity which had been their
      strength—it was her final triumph that she had died while the
      tree was yet whole.

      She was spared the watching of the branches jut out beyond the
      point of balance. She could not look into the hearts of her
      followers. The same law that had worked in her, bringing her up
      from a tall, straight-backed slip of a girl to a woman strong and
      grown, from a woman grown to a woman old, angular, feeble, almost
      witchlike, with individuality all sharpened and sharpened, as all
      rounding from the world’s contact fell off from her—that same law
      would work, was working, in the family she had watched like a
      mother.

      She had seen it young, and growing, she had seen it strong and
      grown, and before her old eyes had time or strength to see any
      more, she died. She would have tried, and who knows but she might
      have kept it young and strong, with her old fingers, her
      trembling kisses—a little longer; alas! not even Aunt Ann could
      fight with Nature.

      “Pride comes before a fall!” In accordance with this, the
      greatest of Nature’s ironies, the Forsyte family had gathered for
      a last proud pageant before they fell. Their faces to right and
      left, in single lines, were turned for the most part impassively
      toward the ground, guardians of their thoughts; but here and
      there, one looking upward, with a line between his brows,
      searched to see some sight on the chapel walls too much for him,
      to be listening to something that appalled. And the responses,
      low-muttered, in voices through which rose the same tone, the
      same unseizable family ring, sounded weird, as though murmured in
      hurried duplication by a single person.

      The service in the chapel over, the mourners filed up again to
      guard the body to the tomb. The vault stood open, and, round it,
      men in black were waiting.

      From that high and sacred field, where thousands of the upper
      middle class lay in their last sleep, the eyes of the Forsytes
      travelled down across the flocks of graves. There—spreading to
      the distance, lay London, with no sun over it, mourning the loss
      of its daughter, mourning with this family, so dear, the loss of
      her who was mother and guardian. A hundred thousand spires and
      houses, blurred in the great grey web of property, lay there like
      prostrate worshippers before the grave of this, the oldest
      Forsyte of them all.

      A few words, a sprinkle of earth, the thrusting of the coffin
      home, and Aunt Ann had passed to her last rest.

      Round the vault, trustees of that passing, the five brothers
      stood, with white heads bowed; they would see that Ann was
      comfortable where she was going. Her little property must stay
      behind, but otherwise, all that could be should be done....

      Then severally, each stood aside, and putting on his hat, turned
      back to inspect the new inscription on the marble of the family
      vault:

     SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF
     ANN FORSYTE,
     THE DAUGHTER OF THE ABOVE
     JOLYON AND ANN FORSYTE,
     WHO DEPARTED THIS LIFE THE 27TH DAY OF
     SEPTEMBER, 1886,
     AGED EIGHTY-SEVEN YEARS AND FOUR DAYS.

      Soon perhaps, someone else would be wanting an inscription. It
      was strange and intolerable, for they had not thought somehow,
      that Forsytes could die. And one and all they had a longing to
      get away from this painfulness, this ceremony which had reminded
      them of things they could not bear to think about—to get away
      quickly and go about their business and forget.

      It was cold, too; the wind, like some slow, disintegrating force,
      blowing up the hill over the graves, struck them with its chilly
      breath; they began to split into groups, and as quickly as
      possible to fill the waiting carriages.

      Swithin said he should go back to lunch at Timothy’s, and he
      offered to take anybody with him in his brougham. It was
      considered a doubtful privilege to drive with Swithin in his
      brougham, which was not a large one; nobody accepted, and he went
      off alone. James and Roger followed immediately after; they also
      would drop in to lunch. The others gradually melted away, Old
      Jolyon taking three nephews to fill up his carriage; he had a
      want of those young faces.

      Soames, who had to arrange some details in the cemetery office,
      walked away with Bosinney. He had much to talk over with him,
      and, having finished his business, they strolled to Hampstead,
      lunched together at the Spaniard’s Inn, and spent a long time in
      going into practical details connected with the building of the
      house; they then proceeded to the tram-line, and came as far as
      the Marble Arch, where Bosinney went off to Stanhope Gate to see
      June.

      Soames felt in excellent spirits when he arrived home, and
      confided to Irene at dinner that he had had a good talk with
      Bosinney, who really seemed a sensible fellow; they had had a
      capital walk too, which had done his liver good—he had been short
      of exercise for a long time—and altogether a very satisfactory
      day. If only it hadn’t been for poor Aunt Ann, he would have
      taken her to the theatre; as it was, they must make the best of
      an evening at home.

      “The Buccaneer asked after you more than once,” he said suddenly.
      And moved by some inexplicable desire to assert his
      proprietorship, he rose from his chair and planted a kiss on his
      wife’s shoulder.


      PART II




      CHAPTER I PROGRESS OF THE HOUSE

      The winter had been an open one. Things in the trade were slack;
      and as Soames had reflected before making up his mind, it had
      been a good time for building. The shell of the house at Robin
      Hill was thus completed by the end of April.

      Now that there was something to be seen for his money, he had
      been coming down once, twice, even three times a week, and would
      mouse about among the debris for hours, careful never to soil his
      clothes, moving silently through the unfinished brickwork of
      doorways, or circling round the columns in the central court.

      And he would stand before them for minutes together, as though
      peering into the real quality of their substance.

      On April 30 he had an appointment with Bosinney to go over the
      accounts, and five minutes before the proper time he entered the
      tent which the architect had pitched for himself close to the old
      oak tree.

      The accounts were already prepared on a folding table, and with a
      nod Soames sat down to study them. It was some time before he
      raised his head.

      “I can’t make them out,” he said at last; “they come to nearly
      seven hundred more than they ought.”

      After a glance at Bosinney’s face he went on quickly:

      “If you only make a firm stand against these builder chaps you’ll
      get them down. They stick you with everything if you don’t look
      sharp.... Take ten per cent. off all round. I shan’t mind it’s
      coming out a hundred or so over the mark!”

      Bosinney shook his head:

      “I’ve taken off every farthing I can!”

      Soames pushed back the table with a movement of anger, which sent
      the account sheets fluttering to the ground.

      “Then all I can say is,” he flustered out, “you’ve made a pretty
      mess of it!”

      “I’ve told you a dozen times,” Bosinney answered sharply, “that
      there’d be extras. I’ve pointed them out to you over and over
      again!”

      “I know that,” growled Soames: “I shouldn’t have objected to a
      ten pound note here and there. How was I to know that by ‘extras’
      you meant seven hundred pounds?”

      The qualities of both men had contributed to this
      not-inconsiderable discrepancy. On the one hand, the architect’s
      devotion to his idea, to the image of a house which he had
      created and believed in—had made him nervous of being stopped, or
      forced to the use of makeshifts; on the other, Soames’s not less
      true and wholehearted devotion to the very best article that
      could be obtained for the money, had rendered him averse to
      believing that things worth thirteen shillings could not be
      bought with twelve.

      “I wish I’d never undertaken your house,” said Bosinney suddenly.
      “You come down here worrying me out of my life. You want double
      the value for your money anybody else would, and now that you’ve
      got a house that for its size is not to be beaten in the county,
      you don’t want to pay for it. If you’re anxious to be off your
      bargain, I daresay I can find the balance above the estimates
      myself, but I’m d——d if I do another stroke of work for you!”

      Soames regained his composure. Knowing that Bosinney had no
      capital, he regarded this as a wild suggestion. He saw, too, that
      he would be kept indefinitely out of this house on which he had
      set his heart, and just at the crucial point when the architect’s
      personal care made all the difference. In the meantime there was
      Irene to be thought of! She had been very queer lately. He really
      believed it was only because she had taken to Bosinney that she
      tolerated the idea of the house at all. It would not do to make
      an open breach with her.

      “You needn’t get into a rage,” he said. “If I’m willing to put up
      with it, I suppose you needn’t cry out. All I meant was that when
      you tell me a thing is going to cost so much, I like to—well, in
      fact, I—like to know where I am.”

      “Look here!” said Bosinney, and Soames was both annoyed and
      surprised by the shrewdness of his glance. “You’ve got my
      services dirt cheap. For the kind of work I’ve put into this
      house, and the amount of time I’ve given to it, you’d have had to
      pay Littlemaster or some other fool four times as much. What you
      want, in fact, is a first-rate man for a fourth-rate fee, and
      that’s exactly what you’ve got!”

      Soames saw that he really meant what he said, and, angry though
      he was, the consequences of a row rose before him too vividly. He
      saw his house unfinished, his wife rebellious, himself a
      laughingstock.

      “Let’s go over it,” he said sulkily, “and see how the money’s
      gone.”

      “Very well,” assented Bosinney. “But we’ll hurry up, if you don’t
      mind. I have to get back in time to take June to the theatre.”

      Soames cast a stealthy look at him, and said: “Coming to our
      place, I suppose to meet her?” He was always coming to their
      place!

      There had been rain the night before—a spring rain, and the earth
      smelt of sap and wild grasses. The warm, soft breeze swung the
      leaves and the golden buds of the old oak tree, and in the
      sunshine the blackbirds were whistling their hearts out.

      It was such a spring day as breathes into a man an ineffable
      yearning, a painful sweetness, a longing that makes him stand
      motionless, looking at the leaves or grass, and fling out his
      arms to embrace he knows not what. The earth gave forth a
      fainting warmth, stealing up through the chilly garment in which
      winter had wrapped her. It was her long caress of invitation, to
      draw men down to lie within her arms, to roll their bodies on
      her, and put their lips to her breast.

      On just such a day as this Soames had got from Irene the promise
      he had asked her for so often. Seated on the fallen trunk of a
      tree, he had promised for the twentieth time that if their
      marriage were not a success, she should be as free as if she had
      never married him!

      “Do you swear it?” she had said. A few days back she had reminded
      him of that oath. He had answered: “Nonsense! I couldn’t have
      sworn any such thing!” By some awkward fatality he remembered it
      now. What queer things men would swear for the sake of women! He
      would have sworn it at any time to gain her! He would swear it
      now, if thereby he could touch her—but nobody could touch her,
      she was cold-hearted!

      And memories crowded on him with the fresh, sweet savour of the
      spring wind—memories of his courtship.

      In the spring of the year 1881 he was visiting his old
      school-fellow and client, George Liversedge, of Branksome, who,
      with the view of developing his pine-woods in the neighbourhood
      of Bournemouth, had placed the formation of the company necessary
      to the scheme in Soames’s hands. Mrs. Liversedge, with a sense of
      the fitness of things, had given a musical tea in his honour.
      Later in the course of this function, which Soames, no musician,
      had regarded as an unmitigated bore, his eye had been caught by
      the face of a girl dressed in mourning, standing by herself. The
      lines of her tall, as yet rather thin figure, showed through the
      wispy, clinging stuff of her black dress, her black-gloved hands
      were crossed in front of her, her lips slightly parted, and her
      large, dark eyes wandered from face to face. Her hair, done low
      on her neck, seemed to gleam above her black collar like coils of
      shining metal. And as Soames stood looking at her, the sensation
      that most men have felt at one time or another went stealing
      through him—a peculiar satisfaction of the senses, a peculiar
      certainty, which novelists and old ladies call love at first
      sight. Still stealthily watching her, he at once made his way to
      his hostess, and stood doggedly waiting for the music to cease.

      “Who is that girl with yellow hair and dark eyes?” he asked.

      “That—oh! Irene Heron. Her father, Professor Heron, died this
      year. She lives with her stepmother. She’s a nice girl, a pretty
      girl, but no money!”

      “Introduce me, please,” said Soames.

      It was very little that he found to say, nor did he find her
      responsive to that little. But he went away with the resolution
      to see her again. He effected his object by chance, meeting her
      on the pier with her stepmother, who had the habit of walking
      there from twelve to one of a forenoon. Soames made this lady’s
      acquaintance with alacrity, nor was it long before he perceived
      in her the ally he was looking for. His keen scent for the
      commercial side of family life soon told him that Irene cost her
      stepmother more than the fifty pounds a year she brought her; it
      also told him that Mrs. Heron, a woman yet in the prime of life,
      desired to be married again. The strange ripening beauty of her
      stepdaughter stood in the way of this desirable consummation. And
      Soames, in his stealthy tenacity, laid his plans.

      He left Bournemouth without having given himself away, but in a
      month’s time came back, and this time he spoke, not to the girl,
      but to her stepmother. He had made up his mind, he said; he would
      wait any time. And he had long to wait, watching Irene bloom, the
      lines of her young figure softening, the stronger blood deepening
      the gleam of her eyes, and warming her face to a creamy glow; and
      at each visit he proposed to her, and when that visit was at an
      end, took her refusal away with him, back to London, sore at
      heart, but steadfast and silent as the grave. He tried to come at
      the secret springs of her resistance; only once had he a gleam of
      light. It was at one of those assembly dances, which afford the
      only outlet to the passions of the population of seaside
      watering-places. He was sitting with her in an embrasure, his
      senses tingling with the contact of the waltz. She had looked at
      him over her slowly waving fan; and he had lost his head. Seizing
      that moving wrist, he pressed his lips to the flesh of her arm.
      And she had shuddered—to this day he had not forgotten that
      shudder—nor the look so passionately averse she had given him.

      A year after that she had yielded. What had made her yield he
      could never make out; and from Mrs. Heron, a woman of some
      diplomatic talent, he learnt nothing. Once after they were
      married he asked her, “What made you refuse me so often?” She had
