“Sunset, though,” said Ron, who was staring out the 
window in a glazed sort of way. “We’d never be 
allowed ... ’specially you, Harry. ...” 

Harry sank his head into his hands, thinking. 

“If we only had the Invisibility Cloak. ...” 

“Where is it?” said Hermione. 

Harry told her about leaving it in the passageway 
under the one-eyed witch. 

"... if Snape sees me anywhere near there again, I’m 
in serious trouble,” he finished. 

“That’s true,” said Hermione, getting to her feet. “If he 
sees you. ... How do you open the witch’s hump 
again?” 

“You — you tap it and say, ‘Dissendium,’ ” said Harry. 
“But — ” 

Hermione didn’t wait for the rest of his sentence; she 
strode across the room, pushed open the Fat Lady’s 
portrait and vanished from sight. 

“She hasn’t gone to get it?” Ron said, staring after 
her. 



Page | 363 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




She had. Hermione returned a quarter of an hour 
later with the silvery cloak folded carefully under her 
robes. 

“Hermione, I don’t know what’s gotten into you 
lately!” said Ron, astounded. “First you hit Malfoy, 
then you walk out on Professor Trelawney — ” 

Hermione looked rather flattered. 

They went down to dinner with everybody else, but 
did not return to Gryffindor Tower afterward. Harry 
had the cloak hidden down the front of his robes; he 
had to keep his arms folded to hide the lump. They 
skulked in an empty chamber off the entrance hall, 
listening, until they were sure it was deserted. They 
heard a last pair of people hurrying across the hall 
and a door slamming. Hermione poked her head 
around the door. 

“Okay,” she whispered, “no one there — cloak on — ” 

Walking very close together so that nobody would see 
them, they crossed the hall on tiptoe beneath the 
cloak, then walked down the stone front steps into 
the grounds. The sun was already sinking behind the 
Forbidden Forest, gilding the top branches of the 
trees. 

They reached Hagrid’s cabin and knocked. He was a 
minute in answering, and when he did, he looked all 
around for his visitor, pale-faced and trembling. 

“It’s us,” Harry hissed. “We’re wearing the Invisibility 
Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off.” 

“Yeh shouldn’ve come!” Hagrid whispered, but he 
stood back, and they stepped inside. Hagrid shut the 
door quickly and Harry pulled off the cloak. 

Page | 364 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid was not crying, nor did he throw himself upon 
their necks. He looked like a man who did not know 
where he was or what to do. This helplessness was 
worse to watch than tears. 

“Wan’ some tea?” he said. His great hands were 
shaking as he reached for the kettle. 

“Where’s Buckbeak, Hagrid?” said Hermione 
hesitantly. 

“I — I took him outside,” said Hagrid, spilling milk all 
over the table as he filled up the jug. “He’s tethered in 
me pumpkin patch. Thought he oughta see the trees 
an’ — an’ smell fresh air — before — ” 

Hagrid ’s hand trembled so violently that the milk jug 
slipped from his grasp and shattered all over the 
floor. 

“I’ll do it, Hagrid,” said Hermione quickly, hurrying 
over and starting to clean up the mess. 

“There’s another one in the cupboard,” Hagrid said, 
sitting down and wiping his forehead on his sleeve. 
Harry glanced at Ron, who looked back hopelessly. 

“Isn’t there anything anyone can do, Hagrid?” Harry 
asked fiercely, sitting down next to him. “Dumbledore 



“He’s tried,” said Hagrid. “He’s got no power ter 
overrule the Committee. He told ’em Buckbeak’s all 
right, but they’re scared. ... Yeh know what Lucius 
Malfoy’s like ... threatened ’em, I expect ... an’ the 
executioner, Macnair, he’s an old pal o’ Malfoy’s ... 
but it’ll be quick an’ clean ... an’ I’ll be beside him. ...” 



Page | 365 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid swallowed. His eyes were darting all over the 
cabin as though looking for some shred of hope or 
comfort. 

“Dumbledore ’s gonna come down while it — while it 
happens. Wrote me this mornin’. Said he wants ter — 
ter be with me. Great man, Dumbledore. ...” 

Hermione, who had been rummaging in Hagrid ’s 
cupboard for another milk jug, let out a small, quickly 
stifled sob. She straightened up with the new jug in 
her hands, fighting back tears. 

“Well stay with you too, Hagrid,” she began, but 
Hagrid shook his shaggy head. 

“Yeh’re ter go back up ter the castle. I told yeh, I don’ 
wan’ yeh watchin’. An’ yeh shouldn’ be down here 
anyway. ... If Fudge an’ Dumbledore catch yeh out 
without permission, Harry, yehll be in big trouble.” 

Silent tears were now streaming down Hermione ’s 
face, but she hid them from Hagrid, bustling around 
making tea. Then, as she picked up the milk bottle to 
pour some into the jug, she let out a shriek. 

“Ron! I — I don’t believe it — it’s Scabbersl” 

Ron gaped at her. 

“What are you talking about?” 

Hermione carried the milk jug over to the table and 
turned it upside down. With a frantic squeak, and 
much scrambling to get back inside, Scabbers the rat 
came sliding out onto the table. 

“Scabbers!” said Ron blankly. “Scabbers, what are 
you doing here?” 

Page | 366 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He grabbed the struggling rat and held him up to the 
light. Scabbers looked dreadful. He was thinner than 
ever, large tufts of hair had fallen out leaving wide 
bald patches, and he writhed in Ron’s hands as 
though desperate to free himself. 

“It’s okay, Scabbers!” said Ron. “No cats! There’s 
nothing here to hurt you!” 

Hagrid suddenly stood up, his eyes fixed on the 
window. His normally ruddy face had gone the color 
of parchment. 

“They’re cornin’. ...” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione whipped around. A group 
of men was walking down the distant castle steps. In 
front was Albus Dumbledore, his silver beard 
gleaming in the dying sun. Next to him trotted 
Cornelius Fudge. Behind them came the feeble old 
Committee member and the executioner, Macnair. 

“Yeh gotta go,” said Hagrid. Every inch of him was 
trembling. “They mustn’ find yeh here. ... Go now. ...” 

Ron stuffed Scabbers into his pocket and Hermione 
picked up the cloak. 

“I’ll let yeh out the back way,” said Hagrid. 

They followed him to the door into his back garden. 
Harry felt strangely unreal, and even more so when 
he saw Buckbeak a few yards away, tethered to a tree 
behind Hagrid’s pumpkin patch. Buckbeak seemed to 
know something was happening. He turned his sharp 
head from side to side and pawed the ground 
nervously. 



Page | 367 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s okay, Beaky,” said Hagrid softly. “It’s okay ...” He 
turned to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “Go on,” he 
said. “Get goin’.” 

But they didn’t move. 

“Hagrid, we can’t — ” 

“Well tell them what really happened — ” 

“They can’t kill him — ” 

“Go!” said Hagrid fiercely. “It’s bad enough without 
you lot in trouble an’ all!” 

They had no choice. As Hermione threw the cloak 
over Harry and Ron, they heard voices at the front of 
the cabin. Hagrid looked at the place where they had 
just vanished from sight. 

“Go quick,” he said hoarsely. “Don’ listen. ...” 

And he strode back into his cabin as someone 
knocked at the front door. 

Slowly, in a kind of horrified trance, Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione set off silently around Hagrid’s house. As 
they reached the other side, the front door closed with 
a sharp snap. 

“Please, let’s hurry,” Hermione whispered. “I can’t 
stand it, I can’t bear it. ...” 

They started up the sloping lawn toward the castle. 
The sun was sinking fast now; the sky had turned to 
a clear, purple-tinged grey, but to the west there was 
a ruby-red glow. 

Ron stopped dead. 

Page | 368 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, please, Ron,” Hermione began. 

“It’s Scabbers — he won’t — stay put — ” 

Ron was bent over, trying to keep Scabbers in his 
pocket, but the rat was going berserk; squeaking 
madly, twisting and flailing, trying to sink his teeth 
into Ron’s hand. 

“Scabbers, it’s me, you idiot, it’s Ron,” Ron hissed. 

They heard a door open behind them and men’s 
voices. 

“Oh, Ron, please let’s move, they’re going to do it!” 
Hermione breathed. 

“Okay — Scabbers, stay put — ” 

They walked forward; Harry, like Hermione, was 
trying not to listen to the rumble of voices behind 
them. Ron stopped again. 

“I can’t hold him — Scabbers, shut up, everyone’ll 
hear us — ” 

The rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough 
to cover up the sounds drifting from Hagrid’s garden. 
There was a jumble of indistinct male voices, a 
silence, and then, without warning, the unmistakable 
swish and thud of an axe. 

Hermione swayed on the spot. 

“They did it!” she whispered to Harry. “I d — don’t 
believe it — they did it!” 



Page | 369 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






CAT, RAT, AND DOG 



Harry’s mind had gone blank with shock. The three of 
them stood transfixed with horror under the 
Invisibility Cloak. The very last rays of the setting sun 
were casting a bloody light over the long-shadowed 
grounds. Then, behind them, they heard a wild 
howling. 

“Hagrid,” Harry muttered. Without thinking about 
what he was doing, he made to turn back, but both 
Ron and Hermione seized his arms. 

“We can’t,” said Ron, who was paper-white. “He’ll be 
in worse trouble if they know we’ve been to see him. 



Hermione ’s breathing was shallow and uneven. 

“How — could — they?” she choked. “How could 
they?” 

“Come on,” said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be 
chattering. 

Page | 370 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



They set off back toward the castle, walking slowly to 
keep themselves hidden under the cloak. The light 
was fading fast now. By the time they reached open 
ground, darkness was settling like a spell around 
them. 

“Scabbers, keep still,” Ron hissed, clamping his hand 
over his chest. The rat was wriggling madly. Ron 
came to a sudden halt, trying to force Scabbers 
deeper into his pocket. “What’s the matter with you, 
you stupid rat? Stay still — OUCH! He bit me!” 

“Ron, be quiet!” Hermione whispered urgently. 
“Fudge’ll be out here in a minute — ” 

“He won’t — stay — put — ” 

Scabbers was plainly terrified. He was writhing with 
all his might, trying to break free of Ron’s grip. 

“What’s the matter with him?” 

But Harry had just seen — slinking toward them, his 
body low to the ground, wide yellow eyes glinting 
eerily in the darkness — Crookshanks. Whether he 
could see them or was following the sound of 
Scabbers’s squeaks, Harry couldn’t tell. 

“Crookshanks!” Hermione moaned. “No, go away, 
Crookshanks! Go away!” 

But the cat was getting nearer — 

“Scabbers — NO!” 

Too late — the rat had slipped between Ron’s 
clutching fingers, hit the ground, and scampered 
away. In one bound, Crookshanks sprang after him, 
and before Harry or Hermione could stop him, Ron 

Page | 371 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




had thrown the Invisibility Cloak off himself and 
pelted away into the darkness. 



“Ron\” Hermione moaned. 

She and Harry looked at each other, then followed at 
a sprint; it was impossible to run full out under the 
cloak; they pulled it off and it streamed behind them 
like a banner as they hurtled after Ron; they could 
hear his feet thundering along ahead and his shouts 
at Crookshanks. 

“Get away from him — get away — Scabbers, come 
here — ” 

There was a loud thud. 

“Gotchal Get off, you stinking cat — ” 

Harry and Hermione almost fell over Ron; they 
skidded to a stop right in front of him. He was 
sprawled on the ground, but Scabbers was back in 
his pocket; he had both hands held tight over the 
quivering lump. 

“Ron — come on — back under the cloak — ” 

Hermione panted. “Dumbledore — the Minister — 
they’ll be coming back out in a minute — ” 

But before they could cover themselves again, before 
they could even catch their breath, they heard the 
soft pounding of gigantic paws. ... Something was 
bounding toward them, quiet as a shadow — an 
enormous, pale-eyed, jet-black dog. 

Harry reached for his wand, but too late — the dog 
had made an enormous leap and the front paws hit 
him on the chest; he keeled over backward in a whirl 
of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch-long teeth — 

Page | 372 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




But the force of its leap had carried it too far; it rolled 
off him. Dazed, feeling as though his ribs were 
broken, Harry tried to stand up; he could hear it 
growling as it skidded around for a new attack. 

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back toward 
them he pushed Harry aside; the dog’s jaws fastened 
instead around Ron’s outstretched arm. Harry lunged 
forward, he seized a handful of the brute’s hair, but it 
was dragging Ron away as easily as though he were a 
rag doll — 

Then, out of nowhere, something hit Harry so hard 
across the face he was knocked off his feet again. He 
heard Hermione shriek with pain and fall too. 

Harry groped for his wand, blinking blood out of his 
eyes — 

“Lumos\” he whispered. 

The wandlight showed him the trunk of a thick tree; 
they had chased Scabbers into the shadow of the 
Whomping Willow and its branches were creaking as 
though in a high wind, whipping backward and 
forward to stop them going nearer. 

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, 
dragging Ron backward into a large gap in the roots 
— Ron was fighting furiously, but his head and torso 
were slipping out of sight — 

“Ron!” Harry shouted, trying to follow, but a heavy 
branch whipped lethally through the air and he was 
forced backward again. 

All they could see now was one of Ron’s legs, which 
he had hooked around a root in an effort to stop the 
dog from pulling him farther underground — but a 

Page | 373 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




horrible crack cut the air like a gunshot; Ron’s leg 
had broken, and a moment later, his foot vanished 
from sight. 

“Harry — we’ve got to go for help — ” Hermione 
gasped; she was bleeding too; the Willow had cut her 
across the shoulder. 

“No! That thing’s big enough to eat him; we haven’t 
got time — ” 

“Harry — we’re never going to get through without 
help — ” 

Another branch whipped down at them, twigs 
clenched like knuckles. 

“If that dog can get in, we can,” Harry panted, darting 
here and there, trying to find a way through the 
vicious, swishing branches, but he couldn’t get an 
inch nearer to the tree roots without being in range of 
the tree’s blows. 

“Oh, help, help,” Hermione whispered frantically, 
dancing uncertainly on the spot, “please ...” 

Crookshanks darted forward. He slithered between 
the battering branches like a snake and placed his 
front paws upon a knot on the trunk. 

Abruptly, as though the tree had been turned to 
marble, it stopped moving. Not a leaf twitched or 
shook. 

“Crookshanks!” Hermione whispered uncertainly. She 
now grasped Harry’s arm painfully hard. “How did he 
know — ?” 



Page | 374 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“He’s friends with that dog,” said Harry grimly. “I’ve 
seen them together. Come on — and keep your wand 
out — ” 

They covered the distance to the trunk in seconds, 
but before they had reached the gap in the roots, 
Crookshanks had slid into it with a flick of his 
bottlebrush tail. Harry went next; he crawled forward, 
headfirst, and slid down an earthy slope to the 
bottom of a very low tunnel. Crookshanks was a little 
way along, his eyes flashing in the light from Harry’s 
wand. Seconds later, Hermione slithered down beside 
him. 

“Where’s Ron?” she whispered in a terrified voice. 

“This way,” said Harry, setting off, bent-backed, after 
Crookshanks. 

“Where does this tunnel come out?” Hermione asked 
breathlessly from behind him. 

“I don’t know. ... It’s marked on the Marauder’s Map 
but Fred and George said no one’s ever gotten into it. 
...It goes off the edge of the map, but it looked like it 
was heading for Hogsmeade. ...” 

They moved as fast as they could, bent almost double; 
ahead of them, Crookshanks ’s tail bobbed in and out 
of view. On and on went the passage; it felt at least as 
long as the one to Honeydukes. ... All Harry could 
think of was Ron and what the enormous dog might 
be doing to him. ... He was drawing breath in sharp, 
painful gasps, running at a crouch. ... 

And then the tunnel began to rise; moments later it 
twisted, and Crookshanks had gone. Instead, Harry 
could see a patch of dim light through a small 
opening. 

Page | 375 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He and Hermione paused, gasping for breath, edging 
forward. Both raised their wands to see what lay 
beyond. 

It was a room, a very disordered, dusty room. Paper 
was peeling from the walls; there were stains all over 
the floor; every piece of furniture was broken as 
though somebody had smashed it. The windows were 
all boarded up. 

Harry glanced at Hermione, who looked very 
frightened but nodded. 

Harry pulled himself out of the hole, staring around. 
The room was deserted, but a door to their right stood 
open, leading to a shadowy hallway. Hermione 
suddenly grabbed Harry’s arm again. Her wide eyes 
were traveling around the boarded windows. 

“Harry,” she whispered, “I think we’re in the Shrieking 
Shack.” 

Harry looked around. His eyes fell on a wooden chair 
near them. Large chunks had been torn out of it; one 
of the legs had been ripped off entirely. 

“Ghosts didn’t do that,” he said slowly. 

At that moment, there was a creak overhead. 
Something had moved upstairs. Both of them looked 
up at the ceiling. Hermione ’s grip on Harry’s arm was 
so tight he was losing feeling in his fingers. He raised 
his eyebrows at her; she nodded again and let go. 

Quietly as they could, they crept out into the hall and 
up the crumbling staircase. Everything was covered 
in a thick layer of dust except the floor, where a wide 
shiny stripe had been made by something being 
dragged upstairs. 

Page | 376 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




They reached the dark landing. 



“Nox,” they whispered together, and the lights at the 
end of their wands went out. Only one door was open. 
As they crept toward it, they heard movement from 
behind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. 
They exchanged a last look, a last nod. 

Wand held tightly before him, Harry kicked the door 
wide open. 

On a magnificent four-poster bed with dusty hangings 
lay Crookshanks, purring loudly at the sight of them. 
On the floor beside him, clutching his leg, which 
stuck out at a strange angle, was Ron. 

Harry and Hermione dashed across to him. 

“Ron — are you okay?” 

“Where’s the dog?” 

“Not a dog,” Ron moaned. His teeth were gritted with 
pain. “Harry, it’s a trap — ” 

“What — ” 

“He’s the dog ... he’s an Animagus. ...” 

Ron was staring over Harry’s shoulder. Harry wheeled 
around. With a snap, the man in the shadows closed 
the door behind them. 

A mass of filthy, matted hair hung to his elbows. If 
eyes hadn’t been shining out of the deep, dark 
sockets, he might have been a corpse. The waxy skin 
was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it 
looked like a skull. His yellow teeth were bared in a 
grin. It was Sirius Black. 

Page | 377 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ ExpelliarmusV’ he croaked, pointing Ron’s wand at 
them. 

Harry’s and Hermione’s wands shot out of their 
hands, high in the air, and Black caught them. Then 
he took a step closer. His eyes were fixed on Harry. 

“I thought you’d come and help your friend,” he said 
hoarsely. His voice sounded as though he had long 
since lost the habit of using it. “Your father would 
have done the same for me. Brave of you, not to run 
for a teacher. I’m grateful ... it will make everything 
much easier. ...” 

The taunt about his father rang in Harry’s ears as 
though Black had bellowed it. A boiling hate erupted 
in Harry’s chest, leaving no place for fear. For the first 
time in his life, he wanted his wand back in his hand, 
not to defend himself, but to attack ... to kill. Without 
knowing what he was doing, he started forward, but 
there was a sudden movement on either side of him 
and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him 
back. ... “No, Harry!” Hermione gasped in a petrified 
whisper; Ron, however, spoke to Black. 

“If you want to kill Harry, you’ll have to kill us too!” 
he said fiercely, though the effort of standing upright 
was draining him of still more color, and he swayed 
slightly as he spoke. 

Something flickered in Black’s shadowed eyes. 

“Lie down,” he said quietly to Ron. “You will damage 
that leg even more.” 

“Did you hear me?” Ron said weakly, though he was 
clinging painfully to Harry to stay upright. “You’ll 
have to kill all three of us!” 



Page | 378 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“There’ll be only one murder here tonight,” said Black, 
and his grin widened. 



“Why’s that?” Harry spat, trying to wrench himself 
free of Ron and Hermione. “Didn’t care last time, did 
you? Didn’t mind slaughtering all those Muggles to 
get at Pettigrew. ... What’s the matter, gone soft in 
Azkaban?” 

“Harry!” Hermione whimpered. “Be quiet!” 

“HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!” Harry roared, and 
with a huge effort he broke free of Hermione ’s and 
Ron’s restraint and lunged forward — 

He had forgotten about magic — he had forgotten that 
he was short and skinny and thirteen, whereas Black 
was a tall, full-grown man — all Harry knew was that 
he wanted to hurt Black as badly as he could and 
that he didn’t care how much he got hurt in return — 

Perhaps it was the shock of Harry doing something so 
stupid, but Black didn’t raise the wands in time — 
one of Harry’s hands fastened over his wasted wrist, 
forcing the wand tips away; the knuckles of Harry’s 
other hand collided with the side of Black’s head and 
they fell, backward, into the wall — 

Hermione was screaming; Ron was yelling; there was 
a blinding flash as the wands in Black’s hand sent a 
jet of sparks into the air that missed Harry’s face by 
inches; Harry felt the shrunken arm under his fingers 
twisting madly, but he clung on, his other hand 
punching every part of Black it could find. 

But Black’s free hand had found Harry’s throat — 

“No,” he hissed, “I’ve waited too long — ” 

Page | 379 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The fingers tightened, Harry choked, his glasses 
askew. 

Then he saw Hermione ’s foot swing out of nowhere. 
Black let go of Harry with a grunt of pain; Ron had 
thrown himself on Black’s wand hand and Harry 
heard a faint clatter — 

He fought free of the tangle of bodies and saw his own 
wand rolling across the floor; he threw himself toward 
it but — 

“Argh!” 

Crookshanks had joined the fray; both sets of front 
claws had sunk themselves deep into Harry’s arm; 
Harry threw him off, but Crookshanks now darted 
toward Harry’s wand — 

“NO YOU DONT!” roared Harry, and he aimed a kick 
at Crookshanks that made the cat leap aside, 
spitting; Harry snatched up his wand and turned — 

“Get out of the way!” he shouted at Ron and 
Hermione. 

They didn’t need telling twice. Hermione, gasping for 
breath, her lip bleeding, scrambled aside, snatching 
up her and Ron’s wands. Ron crawled to the four- 
poster and collapsed onto it, panting, his white face 
now tinged with green, both hands clutching his 
broken leg. 

Black was sprawled at the bottom of the wall. His thin 
chest rose and fell rapidly as he watched Harry 
walking slowly nearer, his wand pointing straight at 
Black’s heart. 

“Going to kill me, Harry?” he whispered. 

Page | 380 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stopped right above him, his wand still pointing 
at Black’s chest, looking down at him. A livid bruise 
was rising around Black’s left eye and his nose was 
bleeding. 

“You killed my parents,” said Harry, his voice shaking 
slightly, but his wand hand quite steady. 

Black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes. 

“I don’t deny it,” he said very quietly. “But if you knew 
the whole story.” 

“The whole story?” Harry repeated, a furious 
pounding in his ears. “You sold them to Voldemort. 
That’s all I need to know.” 

“You’ve got to listen to me,” Black said, and there was 
a note of urgency in his voice now. “You’ll regret it if 
you don’t. ... You don’t understand. ...” 

“I understand a lot better than you think,” said Harry, 
and his voice shook more than ever. “You never heard 
her, did you? My mum ... trying to stop Voldemort 
killing me ... and you did that ... you did it. ...” 

Before either of them could say another word, 
something ginger streaked past Harry; Crookshanks 
leapt onto Black’s chest and settled himself there, 
right over Black’s heart. Black blinked and looked 
down at the cat. 

“Get off,” he murmured, trying to push Crookshanks 
off him. 

But Crookshanks sank his claws into Black’s robes 
and wouldn’t shift. He turned his ugly, squashed face 
to Harry and looked up at him with those great yellow 
eyes. To his right, Hermione gave a dry sob. 

Page | 381 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared down at Black and Crookshanks, his 
grip tightening on the wand. So what if he had to kill 
the cat too? It was in league with Black. ... If it was 
prepared to die, trying to protect Black, that wasn’t 
Harry’s business. ... If Black wanted to save it, that 
only proved he cared more for Crookshanks than for 
Harry’s parents. ... 

Harry raised the wand. Now was the moment to do it. 
Now was the moment to avenge his mother and 
father. He was going to kill Black. He had to kill 
Black. This was his chance. ... 

The seconds lengthened. And still Harry stood frozen 
there, wand poised, Black staring up at him, 
Crookshanks on his chest. Ron’s ragged breathing 
came from near the bed; Hermione was quite silent. 

And then came a new sound — 

Muffled footsteps were echoing up through the floor 
— someone was moving downstairs. 

“WE’RE UP HERE!” Hermione screamed suddenly. 
“WE’RE UP HERE — SIRIUS BLACK — QUICK!” 

Black made a startled movement that almost 
dislodged Crookshanks; Harry gripped his wand 
convulsively — Do it nouA said a voice in his head — 
but the footsteps were thundering up the stairs and 
Harry still hadn’t done it. 

The door of the room burst open in a shower of red 
sparks and Harry wheeled around as Professor Lupin 
came hurtling into the room, his face bloodless, his 
wand raised and ready. His eyes flickered over Ron, 
lying on the floor, over Hermione, cowering next to the 
door, to Harry, standing there with his wand covering 



Page | 382 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black, and then to Black himself, crumpled and 
bleeding at Harry’s feet. 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ Lupin shouted. 

Harry’s wand flew once more out of his hand; so did 
the two Hermione was holding. Lupin caught them all 
deftly, then moved into the room, staring at Black, 
who still had Crookshanks lying protectively across 
his chest. 

Harry stood there, feeling suddenly empty. He hadn’t 
done it. His nerve had failed him. Black was going to 
be handed back to the dementors. 

Then Lupin spoke, in a very tense voice. 

“Where is he, Sirius?” 

Harry looked quickly at Lupin. He didn’t understand 
what Lupin meant. Who was Lupin talking about? He 
turned to look at Black again. 

Black’s face was quite expressionless. For a few 
seconds, he didn’t move at all. Then, very slowly, he 
raised his empty hand and pointed straight at Ron. 
Mystified, Harry glanced around at Ron, who looked 
bewildered. 

“But then ... ,” Lupin muttered, staring at Black so 
intently it seemed he was trying to read his mind, "... 
why hasn’t he shown himself before now? Unless” — 
Lupin’s eyes suddenly widened, as though he was 
seeing something beyond Black, something none of 
the rest could see, “ — unless he was the one ... 
unless you switched . . . without telling me?” 

Very slowly, his sunken gaze never leaving Lupin’s 
face, Black nodded. 

Page | 383 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor,” Harry interrupted loudly, “what’s going 
on — ?” 

But he never finished the question, because what he 
saw made his voice die in his throat. Lupin was 
lowering his wand, gazing fixedly at Black. The 
Professor walked to Black’s side, seized his hand, 
pulled him to his feet so that Crookshanks fell to the 
floor, and embraced Black like a brother. 

Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of 
his stomach. 

“I DONT BELIEVE IT!” Hermione screamed. 

Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. She had 
raised herself off the floor and was pointing at Lupin, 
wild-eyed. “You — you — ” 

“Hermione — ” 

“ — you and him!” 

“Hermione, calm down — ” 

“I didn’t tell anyone!” Hermione shrieked. “I’ve been 
covering up for you — ” 

“Hermione, listen to me, please!” Lupin shouted. “I 
can explain — ” 

Harry could feel himself shaking, not with fear, but 
with a fresh wave of fury. 

“I trusted you,” he shouted at Lupin, his voice 
wavering out of control, “and all the time you’ve been 
his friend!” 



Page | 384 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re wrong,” said Lupin. “I haven’t been Sirius’s 
friend, but I am now — Let me explain. ...” 

“NO!” Hermione screamed. “Harry, don’t trust him, 
he’s been helping Black get into the castle, he wants 
you dead too — he’s a werewolf.” 

There was a ringing silence. Everyone’s eyes were now 
on Lupin, who looked remarkably calm, though rather 
pale. 

“Not at all up to your usual standard, Hermione,” he 
said. “Only one out of three, I’m afraid. I have not 
been helping Sirius get into the castle and I certainly 
don’t want Harry dead. ...” An odd shiver passed over 
his face. “But I won’t deny that I am a werewolf.” 

Ron made a valiant effort to get up again but fell back 
with a whimper of pain. Lupin made toward him, 
looking concerned, but Ron gasped, 

