
The man in rags was now advancing on Ogden, knife 
in one hand, wand in the other. 

“Now, look — ” Ogden began, but too late: There was a 
bang, and Ogden was on the ground, clutching his 
nose, while a nasty yellowish goo squirted from 
between his fingers. 

“Morfin!” said a loud voice. 

An elderly man had come hurrying out of the cottage, 
banging the door behind him so that the dead snake 
swung pathetically. This man was shorter than the 
first, and oddly proportioned; his shoulders were very 
broad and his arms overlong, which, with his bright 
brown eyes, short scrubby hair, and wrinkled face, 
gave him the look of a powerful, aged monkey. He 
came to a halt beside the man with the knife, who 
was now cackling with laughter at the sight of Ogden 
on the ground. 

Page | 226 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Ministry, is it?” said the older man, looking down at 
Ogden. 

“Correct!” said Ogden angrily, dabbing his face. “And 
you, I take it, are Mr. Gaunt?” 

“S’right,” said Gaunt. “Got you in the face, did he?” 

“Yes, he did!” snapped Ogden. 

“Should’ve made your presence known, shouldn’t 
you?” said Gaunt aggressively. “This is private 
property. Can’t just walk in here and not expect my 
son to defend himself.” 

“Defend himself against what, man?” said Ogden, 
clambering back to his feet. 

“Busybodies. Intruders. Muggles and filth.” 

Ogden pointed his wand at his own nose, which was 
still issuing large amounts of what looked like yellow 
pus, and the flow stopped at once. Mr. Gaunt spoke 
out of the corner of his mouth to Morfin. 

“Get in the house. Don’t argue.” 

This time, ready for it, Harry recognized Parseltongue; 
even while he could understand what was being said, 
he distinguished the weird hissing noise that was all 
Ogden could hear. Morfin seemed to be on the point 
of disagreeing, but when his father cast him a 
threatening look he changed his mind, lumbering 
away to the cottage with an odd rolling gait and 
slamming the front door behind him, so that the 
snake swung sadly again. 



Page | 227 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s your son I’m here to see, Mr. Gaunt,” said Ogden, 
as he mopped the last of the pus from the front of his 
coat. “That was Morfin, wasn’t it?” 

“Ar, that was Morfin,” said the old man indifferently. 
“Are you pure-blood?” he asked, suddenly aggressive. 

“That’s neither here nor there,” said Ogden coldly, 
and Harry felt his respect for Ogden rise. Apparently 
Gaunt felt rather differently. He squinted into Ogden’s 
face and muttered, in what was clearly supposed to 
be an offensive tone, “Now I come to think about it, 

I’ve seen noses like yours down in the village.” 

“I don’t doubt it, if your son’s been let loose on them,” 
said Ogden. “Perhaps we could continue this 
discussion inside?” 

“Inside?” 

“Yes, Mr. Gaunt. I’ve already told you. I’m here about 
Morfin. We sent an owl — ” 

“I’ve no use for owls,” said Gaunt. “I don’t open 
letters.” 

“Then you can hardly complain that you get no 
warning of visitors,” said Ogden tartly. “I am here 
following a serious breach of Wizarding law, which 
occurred here in the early hours of this morning — ” 

“All right, all right, all right!” bellowed Gaunt. “Come 
in the bleeding house, then, and much good it’ll do 
you!” 

The house seemed to contain three tiny rooms. Two 
doors led off the main room, which served as kitchen 
and living room combined. Morfin was sitting in a 
filthy armchair beside the smoking fire, twisting a live 

Page | 228 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




adder between his thick fingers and crooning softly at 
it in Parseltongue: 

Hissy, hissy, little snakey, 

Slither on the floor, 

You be good to Morfin 
Or hell nail you to the door. 

There was a scuffling noise in the corner beside the 
open window, and Harry realized that there was 
somebody else in the room, a girl whose ragged gray 
dress was the exact color of the dirty stone wall 
behind her. She was standing beside a steaming pot 
on a grimy black stove, and was fiddling around with 
the shelf of squalid-looking pots and pans above it. 
Her hair was lank and dull and she had a plain, pale, 
rather heavy face. Her eyes, like her brother’s, stared 
in opposite directions. She looked a little cleaner than 
the two men, but Harry thought he had never seen a 
more defeated-looking person. 

“M’daughter, Merope,” said Gaunt grudgingly, as 
Ogden looked inquiringly toward her. 

“Good morning,” said Ogden. 

She did not answer, but with a frightened glance at 
her father turned her back on the room and 
continued shifting the pots on the shelf behind her. 

“Well, Mr. Gaunt,” said Ogden, “to get straight to the 
point, we have reason to believe that your son, 

Morfin, performed magic in front of a Muggle late last 
night.” 

There was a deafening clang. Merope had dropped 
one of the pots. 



Page | 229 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Pick it up\” Gaunt bellowed at her. “That’s it, grub on 
the floor like some filthy Muggle, what’s your wand 
for, you useless sack of muck?” 

“Mr. Gaunt, please!” said Ogden in a shocked voice, 
as Merope, who had already picked up the pot, 
flushed blotchily scarlet, lost her grip on the pot 
again, drew her wand shakily from her pocket, 
pointed it at the pot, and muttered a hasty, inaudible 
spell that caused the pot to shoot across the floor 
away from her, hit the opposite wall, and crack in 
two. 

Morfin let out a mad cackle of laughter. Gaunt 
screamed, “Mend it, you pointless lump, mend it!” 

Merope stumbled across the room, but before she had 
time to raise her wand, Ogden had lifted his own and 
said firmly, “Reparo.” The pot mended itself instantly. 

Gaunt looked for a moment as though he was going to 
shout at Ogden, but seemed to think better of it: 
Instead, he jeered at his daughter, “Lucky the nice 
man from the Ministry’s here, isn’t it? Perhaps he’ll 
take you off my hands, perhaps he doesn’t mind dirty 
Squibs. ...” 

Without looking at anybody or thanking Ogden, 
Merope picked up the pot and returned it, hands 
trembling, to its shelf. She then stood quite still, her 
back against the wall between the filthy window and 
the stove, as though she wished for nothing more 
than to sink into the stone and vanish. 

“Mr. Gaunt,” Ogden began again, “as I’ve said: the 
reason for my visit — ” 



Page | 230 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I heard you the first time!” snapped Gaunt. “And so 
what? Morfin gave a Muggle a bit of what was coming 
to him — what about it, then?” 

“Morfin has broken Wizarding law,” said Ogden 
sternly. 

“ ‘Morfin has broken Wizarding law.’ ” Gaunt imitated 
Ogden’s voice, making it pompous and singsong. 
Morfin cackled again. “He taught a filthy Muggle a 
lesson, that’s illegal now, is it?” 

“Yes,” said Ogden. “I’m afraid it is.” 

He pulled from an inside pocket a small scroll of 
parchment and unrolled it. 

“What’s that, then, his sentence?” said Gaunt, his 
voice rising angrily. 

“It is a summons to the Ministry for a hearing — ” 

“Summons! Summons? Who do you think you are, 
summoning my son anywhere?” 

“I’m Head of the Magical Law Enforcement Squad,” 
said Ogden. 

“And you think we’re scum, do you?” screamed 
Gaunt, advancing on Ogden now, with a dirty yellow- 
nailed finger pointing at his chest. “Scum who’ll come 
running when the Ministry tells ’em to? Do you know 
who you’re talking to, you filthy little Mudblood, do 
you? 

“I was under the impression that I was speaking to 
Mr. Gaunt,” said Ogden, looking wary, but standing 
his ground. 



Page | 231 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s right!” roared Gaunt. For a moment, Harry 
thought Gaunt was making an obscene hand gesture, 
but then realized that he was showing Ogden the 
ugly, black- stoned ring he was wearing on his middle 
finger, waving it before Ogden’s eyes. “See this? See 
this? Know what it is? Know where it came from? 
Centuries it’s been in our family, that’s how far back 
we go, and pure-blood all the way! Know how much 
I’ve been offered for this, with the Peverell coat of 
arms engraved on the stone?” 

“I’ve really no idea,” said Ogden, blinking as the ring 
sailed within an inch of his nose, “and it’s quite 
beside the point, Mr. Gaunt. Your son has committed 



With a howl of rage, Gaunt ran toward his daughter. 
For a split second, Harry thought he was going to 
throttle her as his hand flew to her throat; next 
moment, he was dragging her toward Ogden by a gold 
chain around her neck. 

“See this?” he bellowed at Ogden, shaking a heavy 
gold locket at him, while Merope spluttered and 
gasped for breath. 

“I see it, I see it!” said Ogden hastily. 

“Slytherin’sl” yelled Gaunt. “Salazar Slytherin’s! We’re 
his last living descendants, what do you say to that, 
eh?” 

“Mr. Gaunt, your daughter!” said Ogden in alarm, but 
Gaunt had already released Merope; she staggered 
away from him, back to her corner, massaging her 
neck and gulping for air. 

“So!” said Gaunt triumphantly, as though he had just 
proved a complicated point beyond all possible 

Page | 232 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




dispute. “Don’t you go talking to us as if we’re dirt on 
your shoes! Generations of purebloods, wizards all — 
more than you can say, I don’t doubt!” 

And he spat on the floor at Ogden’s feet. Morfin 
cackled again. Merope, huddled beside the window, 
her head bowed and her face hidden by her lank hair, 
said nothing. 

“Mr. Gaunt,” said Ogden doggedly, “I am afraid that 
neither your ancestors nor mine have anything to do 
with the matter in hand. I am here because of Morfin, 
Morfin and the Muggle he accosted late last night. 

Our information” — he glanced down at his scroll of 
parchment — “is that Morfin performed a jinx or hex 
on the said Muggle, causing him to erupt in highly 
painful hives.” 

Morfin giggled. 

“ Be quiet, boy,” snarled Gaunt in Parseltongue, and 
Morfin fell silent again. 

“And so what if he did, then?” Gaunt said defiantly to 
Ogden. “I expect you’ve wiped the Muggle ’s filthy face 
clean for him, and his memory to boot — ” 

“That’s hardly the point, is it, Mr. Gaunt?” said 
Ogden. “This was an unprovoked attack on a 
defenseless — ” 

“Ar, I had you marked out as a Muggle-lover the 
moment I saw you,” sneered Gaunt, and he spat on 
the floor again. 

“This discussion is getting us nowhere,” said Ogden 
firmly. “It is clear from your son’s attitude that he 
feels no remorse for his actions.” He glanced down at 
his scroll of parchment again. “Morfin will attend a 

Page | 233 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




hearing on the fourteenth of September to answer the 
charges of using magic in front of a Muggle and 
causing harm and distress to that same Mugg — ” 

Ogden broke off. The jingling, clopping sounds of 
horses and loud, laughing voices were drifting in 
through the open window. Apparently the winding 
lane to the village passed very close to the copse 
where the house stood. Gaunt froze, listening, his 
eyes wide. Morfin hissed and turned his face toward 
the sounds, his expression hungry. Merope raised her 
head. Her face, Harry saw, was starkly white. 

“My God, what an eyesore!” rang out a girl’s voice, as 
clearly audible through the open window as if she had 
stood in the room beside them. “Couldn’t your father 
have that hovel cleared away, Tom?” 

“It’s not ours,” said a young man’s voice. “Everything 
on the other side of the valley belongs to us, but that 
cottage belongs to an old tramp called Gaunt, and his 
children. The son’s quite mad, you should hear some 
of the stories they tell in the village — ” 

The girl laughed. The jingling, clopping noises were 
growing louder and louder. Morfin made to get out of 
his armchair. 

“Keep your seat,” said his father warningly, in 
Parseltongue. 

“Tom,” said the girl’s voice again, now so close they 
were clearly right beside the house, “I might be wrong 
— but has somebody nailed a snake to that door?” 

“Good lord, you’re right!” said the man’s voice. “That’ll 
be the son, I told you he’s not right in the head. Don’t 
look at it, Cecilia, darling.” 



Page | 234 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




The jingling and clopping sounds were now growing 
fainter again. 

“ ‘Darling,’ ” whispered Morfin in Parseltongue, 
looking at his sister. “ ‘Darling,’ he called her. So he 
wouldn’t have you anyway.” 

Merope was so white Harry felt sure she was going to 
faint. 

“What’s that?” said Gaunt sharply, also in 
Parseltongue, looking from his son to his daughter. 

“ What did you say, Morfin?” 

“She likes looking at that Muggle,” said Morfin, a 
vicious expression on his face as he stared at his 
sister, who now looked terrified. “Always in the 
garden when he passes, peering through the hedge at 
him, isn’t she? And last night — ” 

Merope shook her head jerkily, imploringly, but 
Morfin went on ruthlessly, “Hanging out of the 
window waiting for him to ride home, wasn’t she?” 

“Hanging out of the window to look at a Muggle?” said 
Gaunt quietly. 

All three of the Gaunts seemed to have forgotten 
Ogden, who was looking both bewildered and irritated 
at this renewed outbreak of incomprehensible hissing 
and rasping. 

“Is it true?” said Gaunt in a deadly voice, advancing a 
step or two toward the terrified girl. “My daughter — 
pure-blooded descendant of Salazar Slytherin — 
hankering after a filthy, dirt-veined Muggle?” 

Merope shook her head frantically, pressing herself 
into the wall, apparently unable to speak. 

Page | 235 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But I got him, FatheA” cackled Morfin. “I got him as 
he went by and he didn’t look so pretty with hives all 
over him, did he, Merope?” 

“You disgusting little Squib, you filthy little blood 
traitoA.” roared Gaunt, losing control, and his hands 
closed around his daughter’s throat. 

Both Harry and Ogden yelled “No!” at the same time; 
Ogden raised his wand and cried, “Relashiol” Gaunt 
was thrown backward, away from his daughter; he 
tripped over a chair and fell flat on his back. With a 
roar of rage, Morfin leapt out of his chair and ran at 
Ogden, brandishing his bloody knife and firing hexes 
indiscriminately from his wand. 

Ogden ran for his life. Dumbledore indicated that they 
ought to follow and Harry obeyed, Merope ’s screams 
echoing in his ears. 

Ogden hurtled up the path and erupted onto the main 
lane, his arms over his head, where he collided with 
the glossy chestnut horse ridden by a very handsome, 
dark-haired young man. Both he and the pretty girl 
riding beside him on a gray horse roared with 
laughter at the sight of Ogden, who bounced off the 
horse’s flank and set off again, his frock coat flying, 
covered from head to foot in dust, running pell-mell 
up the lane. 

“I think that will do, Harry,” said Dumbledore. He 
took Harry by the elbow and tugged. Next moment, 
they were both soaring weightlessly through 
darkness, until they landed squarely on their feet, 
back in Dumbledore ’s now twilit office. 

“What happened to the girl in the cottage?” said Harry 
at once, as Dumbledore lit extra lamps with a flick of 
his wand. “Merope, or whatever her name was?” 

Page | 236 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, she survived,” said Dumbledore, reseating 
himself behind his desk and indicating that Harry 
should sit down too. “Ogden Apparated back to the 
Ministry and returned with reinforcements within 
fifteen minutes. Morfin and his father attempted to 
fight, but both were overpowered, removed from the 
cottage, and subsequently convicted by the 
Wizengamot. Morfin, who already had a record of 
Muggle attacks, was sentenced to three years in 
Azkaban. Marvolo, who had injured several Ministry 
employees in addition to Ogden, received six months.” 

“Marvolo?” Harry repeated wonderingly. 

“That’s right,” said Dumbledore, smiling in approval. 

“I am glad to see you’re keeping up.” 

“That old man was — ?” 

“Voldemort’s grandfather, yes,” said Dumbledore. 
“Marvolo, his son, Morfin, and his daughter, Merope, 
were the last of the Gaunts, a very ancient Wizarding 
family noted for a vein of instability and violence that 
flourished through the generations due to their habit 
of marrying their own cousins. Lack of sense coupled 
with a great liking for grandeur meant that the family 
gold was squandered several generations before 
Marvolo was born. He, as you saw, was left in squalor 
and poverty, with a very nasty temper, a fantastic 
amount of arrogance and pride, and a couple of 
family heirlooms that he treasured just as much as 
his son, and rather more than his daughter.” 

“So Merope,” said Harry, leaning forward in his chair 
and staring at Dumbledore, “so Merope was ... Sir, 
does that mean she was ... Voldemort’s mother?” 



Page | 237 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It does,” said Dumbledore. “And it so happens that 
we also had a glimpse of Voldemort’s father. I wonder 
whether you noticed?” 

“The Muggle Morfin attacked? The man on the 
horse?” 

“Very good indeed,” said Dumbledore, beaming. “Yes, 
that was Tom Riddle senior, the handsome Muggle 
who used to go riding past the Gaunt cottage and for 
whom Merope Gaunt cherished a secret, burning 
passion.” 

“And they ended up married?” Harry said in disbelief, 
unable to imagine two people less likely to fall in love. 

“I think you are forgetting,” said Dumbledore, “that 
Merope was a witch. I do not believe that her magical 
powers appeared to their best advantage when she 
was being terrorized by her father. Once Marvolo and 
Morfin were safely in Azkaban, once she was alone 
and free for the first time in her life, then, I am sure, 
she was able to give full rein to her abilities and to 
plot her escape from the desperate life she had led for 
eighteen years. 

“Can you not think of any measure Merope could 
have taken to make Tom Riddle forget his Muggle 
companion, and fall in love with her instead?” 

“The Imperius Curse?” Harry suggested. “Or a love 
potion?” 

“Very good. Personally, I am inclined to think that she 
used a love potion. I am sure it would have seemed 
more romantic to her, and I do not think it would 
have been very difficult, some hot day, when Riddle 
was riding alone, to persuade him to take a drink of 
water. In any case, within a few months of the scene 
Page | 238 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




we have just witnessed, the village of Little Hangleton 
enjoyed a tremendous scandal. You can imagine the 
gossip it caused when the squire’s son ran off with 
the tramp’s daughter, Merope. 

“But the villagers’ shock was nothing to Marvolo’s. He 
returned from Azkaban, expecting to find his 
daughter dutifully awaiting his return with a hot meal 
ready on his table. Instead, he found a clear inch of 
dust and her note of farewell, explaining what she 
had done. 

“From all that I have been able to discover, he never 
mentioned her name or existence from that time 
forth. The shock of her desertion may have 
contributed to his early death — or perhaps he had 
simply never learned to feed himself. Azkaban had 
greatly weakened Marvolo, and he did not live to see 
Morfin return to the cottage.” 

“And Merope? She ... she died, didn’t she? Wasn’t 
Voldemort brought up in an orphanage?” 

“Yes, indeed,” said Dumbledore. “We must do a 
certain amount of guessing here, although I do not 
think it is difficult to deduce what happened. You see, 
within a few months of their runaway marriage, Tom 
Riddle reappeared at the manor house in Little 
Hangleton without his wife. The rumor flew around 
the neighborhood that he was talking of being 
‘hoodwinked’ and ‘taken in.’ What he meant, I am 
sure, is that he had been under an enchantment that 
had now lifted, though I daresay he did not dare use 
those precise words for fear of being thought insane. 
When they heard what he was saying, however, the 
villagers guessed that Merope had lied to Tom Riddle, 
pretending that she was going to have his baby, and 
that he had married her for this reason.” 



Page | 239 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“But she did have his baby.” 



“But not until a year after they were married. Tom 
Riddle left her while she was still pregnant.” 

“What went wrong?” asked Harry. “Why did the love 
potion stop working?” 

“Again, this is guesswork,” said Dumbledore, “but I 
believe that Merope, who was deeply in love with her 
husband, could not bear to continue enslaving him by 
magical means. I believe that she made the choice to 
stop giving him the potion. Perhaps, besotted as she 
was, she had convinced herself that he would by now 
have fallen in love with her in return. Perhaps she 
thought he would stay for the baby’s sake. If so, she 
was wrong on both counts. He left her, never saw her 
again, and never troubled to discover what became of 
his son.” 

The sky outside was inky black and the lamps in 
Dumbledore ’s office seemed to glow more brightly 
than before. 

“I think that will do for tonight, Harry,” said 
Dumbledore after a moment or two. 

“Yes, sir,” said Harry. 

He got to his feet, but did not leave. 

“Sir ... is it important to know all this about 
Voldemort’s past?” 

“Very important, I think,” said Dumbledore. 

“And it ... it’s got something to do with the prophecy?” 

“It has everything to do with the prophecy.” 

Page | 240 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Right,” said Harry, a little confused, but reassured 
all the same. 

He turned to go, then another question occurred to 
him, and he turned back again. “Sir, am I allowed to 
tell Ron and Hermione everything you’ve told me?” 

Dumbledore considered him for a moment, then said, 
“Yes, I think Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger have 
proved themselves trustworthy. But Harry, I am going 
to ask you to ask them not to repeat any of this to 
anybody else. It would not be a good idea if word got 
around how much I know, or suspect, about Lord 
Voldemort’s secrets.” 

“No, sir, I’ll make sure it’s just Ron and Hermione. 
Good night.” 

He turned away again, and was almost at the door 
when he saw it. Sitting on one of the little spindle- 
legged tables that supported so many frail-looking 
silver instruments, was an ugly gold ring set with a 
large, cracked, black stone. 

“Sir,” said Harry, staring at it. “That ring — ” 

“Yes?” said Dumbledore. 

“You were wearing it when we visited Professor 
Slughorn that night.” 

“So I was,” Dumbledore agreed. 

“But isn’t it ... sir, isn’t it the same ring Marvolo 
Gaunt showed Ogden?” 

Dumbledore bowed his head. “The very same.” 

“But how come — ? Have you always had it?” 

Page | 241 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“No, I acquired it very recently,” said Dumbledore. “A 
few days before I came to fetch you from your aunt 
and uncle’s, in fact.” 

“That would be around the time you injured your 
hand, then, sir?” 

“Around that time, yes, Harry.” 

Harry hesitated. Dumbledore was smiling. 

“Sir, how exactly — ?” 

“Too late, Harry! You shall hear the story another 
time. Good night.” 

“Good night, sir.” 



Page | 242 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 






HERMIONE’S HELPING HAND 

As Hermione had predicted, the sixth years’ free 
periods were not the hours of blissful relaxation Ron 
had anticipated, but times in which to attempt to 
keep up with the vast amount of homework they were 
being set. Not only were they studying as though they 
had exams every day, but the lessons themselves had 
become more demanding than ever before. Harry 
barely understood half of what Professor McGonagall 
said to them these days; even Hermione had had to 
ask her to repeat instructions once or twice. 
Incredibly, and to Hermione ’s increasing resentment, 
Harry’s best subject had suddenly become Potions, 
thanks to the Half-Blood Prince. 

Nonverbal spells were now expected, not only in 
Defense Against the Dark Arts, but in Charms and 
Transfiguration too. Harry frequently looked over at 
his classmates in the common room or at mealtimes 
to see them purple in the face and straining as 
though they had overdosed on U-No-Poo; but he knew 
that they were really struggling to make spells work 



Page | 243 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 



without saying incantations aloud. It was a relief to 
get outside into the greenhouses; they were dealing 
with more dangerous plants than ever in Herbology, 
but at least they were still allowed to swear loudly if 
the Venomous Tentacula seized them unexpectedly 
from behind. 

One result of their enormous workload and the frantic 
hours of practicing nonverbal spells was that Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione had so far been unable to find 
time to go and visit Hagrid. He had stopped coming to 
meals at the staff table, an ominous sign, and on the 
few occasions when they had passed him in the 
corridors or out in the grounds, he had mysteriously 
failed to notice them or hear their greetings. 

“We’ve got to go and explain,” said Hermione, looking 
up at Hagrid ’s huge empty chair at the staff table the 
following Saturday at breakfast. 

“We’ve got Quidditch tryouts this morning!” said Ron. 
“And we’re supposed to be practicing that Aguamenti 
Charm from Flitwick! Anyway, explain what? How are 
we going to tell him we hated his stupid subject?” 

“We didn’t hate it!” said Hermione. 

“Speak for yourself, I haven’t forgotten the skrewts,” 
said Ron darkly. “And I’m telling you now, we’ve had a 
narrow escape. You didn’t hear him going on about 
his gormless brother — we’d have been teaching 
Grawp how to tie his shoelaces if we’d stayed.” 

“I hate not talking to Hagrid,” said Hermione, looking 
upset. 

“Well go down after Quidditch,” Harry assured her. 

He too was missing Hagrid, although like Ron he 
thought that they were better off without Grawp in 

Page | 244 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




their lives. “But trials might take all morning, the 
number of people who have applied.” He felt slightly 
nervous at confronting the first hurdle of his 
Captaincy. “I dunno why the team’s this popular all of 
a sudden.” 

“Oh, come on, Harry,” said Hermione, suddenly 
impatient. “It’s not Quidditch that’s popular, it’s you! 
You’ve never been more interesting, and frankly, 
you’ve never been more fanciable.” 

Ron gagged on a large piece of kipper. Hermione 
spared him one look of disdain before turning back to 
Harry. 

“Everyone knows you’ve been telling the truth now, 
don’t they? The whole Wizarding world has had to 
admit that you were right about Voldemort being back 
and that you really have fought him twice in the last 
two years and escaped both times. And now they’re 
calling you ‘the Chosen One’ — well, come on, can’t 
you see why people are fascinated by you?” 

Harry was finding the Great Hall very hot all of a 
sudden, even though the ceiling still looked cold and 
rainy. 

“And you’ve been through all that persecution from 
the Ministry when they were trying to make out you 
were unstable and a liar. You can still see the marks 
on the back of your hand where that evil woman 
made you write with your own blood, but you stuck to 
your story anyway. ...” 

“You can still see where those brains got hold of me in 
the Ministry, look,” said Ron, shaking back his 
sleeves. 



Page | 245 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“And it doesn’t hurt that you’ve grown about a foot 
over the summer either,” Hermione finished, ignoring 
Ron. 

“I’m tall,” said Ron inconsequentially. 

The post owls arrived, swooping down through rain- 
flecked windows, scattering everyone with droplets of 
water. Most people were receiving more post than 
usual; anxious parents were keen to hear from their 
children and to reassure them, in turn, that all was 
well at home. Harry had received no mail since the 
start of term; his only regular correspondent was now 
dead and although he had hoped that Lupin might 
write occasionally, he had so far been disappointed. 
He was very surprised, therefore, to see the snowy 
white Hedwig circling amongst all the brown and gray 
owls. She landed in front of him carrying a large, 
square package. A moment later, an identical package 
landed in front of Ron, crushing beneath it his 
minuscule and exhausted owl, Pigwidgeon. 

“Ha!” said Harry, unwrapping the parcel to reveal a 
new copy of Advanced Potion-Making, fresh from 
Flourish and Blotts. 

“Oh good,” said Hermione, delighted. “Now you can 
give that graffitied copy back.” 

“Are you mad?” said Harry. “I’m keeping it! Look, I’ve 
thought it out — ” 

He pulled the old copy of Advanced Potion-Making out 
of his bag and tapped the cover with his wand, 
muttering, “Diffindol” The cover fell off. He did the 
same thing with the brand-new book (Hermione 
looked scandalized). He then swapped the covers, 
tapped each, and said, “Reparo\” 



Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




There sat the Prince’s copy, disguised as a new book, 
and there sat the fresh copy from Flourish and Blotts, 
looking thoroughly secondhand. 

“I’ll give Slughorn back the new one, he can’t 
complain, it cost nine Galleons.” 

Hermione pressed her lips together, looking angry 
and disapproving, but was distracted by a third owl 
landing in front of her carrying that day’s copy of the 
Daily Prophet. She unfolded it hastily and scanned 
the front page. 

“Anyone we know dead?” asked Ron in a determinedly 
casual voice; he posed the same question every time 
Hermione opened her paper. 

“No, but there have been more dementor attacks,” 
said Hermione. “And an arrest.” 

“Excellent, who?” said Harry, thinking of Bellatrix 
Lestrange. 

“Stan Shunpike,” said Hermione. 

“What?” said Harry, startled. 

“ ‘Stanley Shunpike , conductor on the popular 
Wizarding conveyance the Knight Bus, has been 
arrested on suspicion of Death Eater activity. Mr. 
Shunpike, 21, was taken into custody late last night 
after a raid on his Clapham home ...’ ” 

“Stan Shunpike, a Death Eater?” said Harry, 
remembering the spotty youth he had first met three 
years before. “No way!” 

“He might have been put under the Imperius Curse,” 
said Ron reasonably. “You never can tell.” 

Page | 247 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It doesn’t look like it,” said Hermione, who was still 
reading. “It says here he was arrested after he was 
overheard talking about the Death Eaters’ secret 
plans in a pub.” She looked up with a troubled 
expression on her face. “If he was under the Imperius 
Curse, he’d hardly stand around gossiping about 
their plans, would he?” 

“It sounds like he was trying to make out he knew 
more than he did,” said Ron. “Isn’t he the one who 
claimed he was going to become Minister of Magic 
when he was trying to chat up those veela?” 

“Yeah, that’s him,” said Harry. “I dunno what they’re 
playing at, taking Stan seriously.” 

“They probably want to look as though they’re doing 
something,” said Hermione, frowning. “People are 
terrified — you know the Patil twins’ parents want 
them to go home? And Eloise Midgen has already 
been withdrawn. Her father picked her up last night.” 

“What!” said Ron, goggling at Hermione. “But 
Hogwarts is safer than their homes, bound to be! 
We’ve got Aurors, and all those extra protective spells, 
and we’ve got Dumbledore!” 

“I don’t think we’ve got him all the time,” said 
Hermione very quietly, glancing toward the staff table 
over the top of the Prophet “Haven’t you noticed? His 
seat’s been empty as often as Hagrid’s this past 
week.” 

Harry and Ron looked up at the staff table. The 
headmaster’s chair was indeed empty. Now Harry 
came to think of it, he had not seen Dumbledore 
since their private lesson a week ago. 



Page | 248 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“I think he’s left the school to do something with the 
Order,” said Hermione in a low voice. “I mean ... it’s 
all looking serious, isn’t it? 

Harry and Ron did not answer, but Harry knew that 
