“Oh — yeah,” said Harry, grabbing up a few more 
books. 

“Don’t be stupid, it’ll be much quicker if I — pack).” 
cried Tonks, waving her wand in a long, sweeping 
movement over the floor. 

Books, clothes, telescope, and scales all soared into 
the air and flew pell-mell into the trunk. 

“It’s not very neat,” said Tonks, walking over to the 
trunk and looking down at the jumble inside. “My 
mum’s got this knack of getting stuff to fit itself in 

Page | 68 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




neatly — she even gets the socks to fold themselves — 
but I’ve never mastered how she does it — it’s a kind 
of flick — ” 

She flicked her wand hopefully; one of Harry’s socks 
gave a feeble sort of wiggle and flopped back on top of 
the mess within. 

“Ah, well,” said Tonks, slamming the trunk’s lid shut, 
“at least it’s all in. That could do with a bit of 
cleaning, too — Scourgify — ” She pointed her wand at 
Hedwig’s cage; a few feathers and droppings 
vanished. “Well, that’s a bit better — I’ve never quite 
got the hang of these sort of householdy spells. Right 
— got everything? Cauldron? Broom? Wow! A 
Firebolt?” 

Her eyes widened as they fell on the broomstick in 
Harry’s right hand. It was his pride and joy, a gift 
from Sirius, an international standard broomstick. 

“And I’m still riding a Comet Two Sixty,” said Tonks 
enviously. “Ah well ... wand still in your jeans? Both 
buttocks still on? Okay, let’s go. Locomotor Trunk.” 

Harry’s trunk rose a few inches into the air. Holding 
her wand like a conductor’s baton, Tonks made it 
hover across the room and out of the door ahead of 
them, Hedwig’s cage in her left hand. Harry followed 
her down the stairs carrying his broomstick. 

Back in the kitchen, Moody had replaced his eye, 
which was spinning so fast after its cleaning it made 
Harry feel sick. Kingsley Shacklebolt and Sturgis 
Podmore were examining the microwave and Hestia 
Jones was laughing at a potato peeler she had come 
across while rummaging in the drawers. Lupin was 
sealing a letter addressed to the Dursleys. 



Page | 69 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Excellent,” said Lupin, looking up as Tonks and 
Harry entered. “We’ve got about a minute, I think. We 
should probably get out into the garden so we’re 
ready. Harry, I’ve left a letter telling your aunt and 
uncle not to worry — ” 

“They won’t,” said Harry. 

“That you’re safe — ” 

“That’ll just depress them.” 

“ — and you’ll see them next summer.” 

“Do I have to?” 

Lupin smiled but made no answer. 

“Come here, boy,” said Moody gruffly, beckoning 
Harry toward him with his wand. “I need to 
Disillusion you.” 

“You need to what?” said Harry nervously. 

“Disillusionment Charm,” said Moody, raising his 
wand. “Lupin says you’ve got an Invisibility Cloak, 
but it won’t stay on while we’re flying; this’ll disguise 
you better. Here you go — ” 

He rapped Harry hard on the top of the head and 
Harry felt a curious sensation as though Moody had 
just smashed an egg there; cold trickles seemed to be 
running down his body from the point the wand had 
struck. 

“Nice one, Mad-Eye,” said Tonks appreciatively, 
staring at Harry’s midriff. 



Page | 70 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked down at his body, or rather, what had 
been his body, for it didn’t look anything like his 
anymore. It was not invisible; it had simply taken on 
the exact color and texture of the kitchen unit behind 
him. He seemed to have become a human chameleon. 

“Come on,” said Moody, unlocking the back door with 
his wand. 

They all stepped outside onto Uncle Vernon’s 
beautifully kept lawn. 

“Clear night,” grunted Moody, his magical eye 
scanning the heavens. “Could’ve done with a bit more 
cloud cover. Right, you,” he barked at Harry, “we’re 
going to be flying in close formation. Tonks’ll be right 
in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupin’ll be 
covering you from below. I’m going to be behind you. 
The rest’ll be circling us. We don’t break ranks for 
anything, got me? If one of us is killed — ” 

“Is that likely?” Harry asked apprehensively, but 
Moody ignored him. 

“ — the others keep flying, don’t stop, don’t break 
ranks. If they take out all of us and you survive, 

Harry, the rear guard are standing by to take over; 
keep flying east and they’ll join you.” 

“Stop being so cheerful, Mad-Eye, he’ll think we’re not 
taking this seriously,” said Tonks, as she strapped 
Harry’s trunk and Hedwig’s cage into a harness 
hanging from her broom. 

“I’m just telling the boy the plan,” growled Moody. 
“Our job’s to deliver him safely to headquarters and if 
we die in the attempt — ” 



Page | 71 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“No one’s going to die,” said Kingsley Shacklebolt in 
his deep, calming voice. 

“Mount your brooms, that’s the first signal!” said 
Lupin sharply, pointing into the sky. 

Far, far above them, a shower of bright red sparks 
had flared among the stars. Harry recognized them at 
once as wand sparks. He swung his right leg over his 
Firebolt, gripped its handle tightly, and felt it 
vibrating very slightly, as though it was as keen as he 
was to be up in the air once more. 

“Second signal, let’s go!” said Lupin loudly, as more 
sparks, green this time, exploded high above them. 

Harry kicked off hard from the ground. The cool night 
air rushed through his hair as the neat square 
gardens of Privet Drive fell away, shrinking rapidly 
into a patchwork of dark greens and blacks, and 
every thought of the Ministry hearing was swept from 
his mind as though the rush of air had blown it out of 
his head. He felt as though his heart was going to 
explode with pleasure; he was flying again, flying 
away from Privet Drive as he’d been fantasizing about 
all summer, he was going home... For a few glorious 
moments, all his problems seemed to recede into 
nothing, insignificant in the vast, starry sky. 

“Hard left, hard left, there’s a Muggle looking up!” 
shouted Moody from behind him. Tonks swerved and 
Harry followed her, watching his trunk swinging 
wildly beneath her broom. “We need more height... 
Give it another quarter of a mile!” 

Harry’s eyes watered in the chill as they soared 
upward; he could see nothing below now but tiny 
pinpricks of light that were car headlights and 
streetlamps. Two of those tiny lights might belong to 

Page | 72 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




Uncle Vernon’s car... The Dursleys would be heading 
back to their empty house right now, full of rage 
about the nonexistent lawn competition . . . and Harry 
laughed aloud at the thought, though his voice was 
drowned by the flapping of the others’ robes, the 
creaking of the harness holding his trunk and the 
cage, the whoosh of the wind in their ears as they 
sped through the air. He had not felt this alive in a 
month, or this happy... 

“Bearing south!” shouted Mad-Eye. “Town ahead!” 

They soared right, so that they did not pass directly 
over the glittering spiderweb of lights below. 

“Bear southeast and keep climbing, there’s some low 
cloud ahead we can lose ourselves in!” called Moody. 

“We’re not going through clouds!” shouted Tonks 
angrily. “We’ll get soaked, Mad-Eye!” 

Harry was relieved to hear her say this; his hands 
were growing numb on the Firebolt’s handle. He 
wished he had thought to put on a coat; he was 
starting to shiver. 

They altered their course every now and then 
according to Mad-Eye ’s instructions. Harry’s eyes 
were screwed up against the rush of icy wind that 
was starting to make his ears ache. He could 
remember being this cold on a broom only once 
before, during the Quidditch match against Hufflepuff 
in his third year, which had taken place in a storm. 
The guard around him was circling continuously like 
giant birds of prey. Harry lost track of time. He 
wondered how long they had been flying; it felt like an 
hour at least. 



Page | 73 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Turning southwest!” yelled Moody. “We want to avoid 
the motorway!” 

Harry was now so chilled that he thought longingly 
for a moment of the snug, dry interiors of the cars 
streaming along below, then, even more longingly, of 
traveling by Floo powder; it might be uncomfortable to 
spin around in fireplaces but it was at least warm in 
the flames... Kingsley Shacklebolt swooped around 
him, bald pate and earring gleaming slightly in the 
moonlight... Now Emmeline Vance was on his right, 
her wand out, her head turning left and right . . . then 
she too swooped over him, to be replaced by Sturgis 
Podmore... 

“We ought to double back for a bit, just to make sure 
we’re not being followed!” Moody shouted. 

“ARE YOU MAD, MAD-EYE?” Tonks screamed from 
the front. “We’re all frozen to our brooms! If we keep 
going off course we’re not going to get there until next 
week! We’re nearly there now!” 

“Time to start the descent!” came Lupin’s voice. 
“Follow Tonks, Harry!” 

Harry followed Tonks into a dive. They were heading 
for the largest collection of lights he had yet seen, a 
huge, sprawling, crisscrossing mass, glittering in lines 
and grids, interspersed with patches of deepest black. 
Lower and lower they flew, until Harry could see 
individual headlights and streetlamps, chimneys, and 
television aerials. He wanted to reach the ground very 
much, though he felt sure that someone would have 
to unfreeze him from his broom. 

“Here we go!” called Tonks, and a few seconds later 
she had landed. 



Page | 74 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry touched down right behind her and 
dismounted on a patch of unkempt grass in the 
middle of a small square. Tonks was already 
unbuckling Harry’s trunk. Shivering, Harry looked 
around. The grimy fronts of the surrounding houses 
were not welcoming; some of them had broken 
windows, glimmering dully in the light from the 
street-lamps, paint was peeling from many of the 
doors, and heaps of rubbish lay outside several sets 
of front steps. 

“Where are we?” Harry asked, but Lupin said quietly, 
“In a minute.” 

Moody was rummaging in his cloak, his gnarled 
hands clumsy with cold. 

“Got it,” he muttered, raising what looked like a silver 
cigarette lighter into the air and clicking it. 

The nearest streetlamp went out with a pop. He 
clicked the un-lighter again; the next lamp went out. 
He kept clicking until every lamp in the square was 
extinguished and the only light in the square came 
from curtained windows and the sickle moon 
overhead. 

“Borrowed it from Dumbledore,” growled Moody, 
pocketing the Put-Outer. “That’ll take care of any 
Muggles looking out of the window, see? Now, come 
on, quick.” 

He took Harry by the arm and led him from the patch 
of grass, across the road, and onto the pavement. 
Lupin and Tonks followed, carrying Harry’s trunk 
between them, the rest of the guard, all with their 
wands out, flanking them. 



Page | 75 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The muffled pounding of a stereo was coming from an 
upper window in the nearest house. A pungent smell 
of rotting rubbish came from the pile of bulging bin- 
bags just inside the broken gate. 

“Here,” Moody muttered, thrusting a piece of 
parchment toward Harry’s Disillusioned hand and 
holding his lit wand close to it, so as to illuminate the 
writing. “Read quickly and memorize.” 

Harry looked down at the piece of paper. The narrow 
handwriting was vaguely familiar. It said: 

The headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix may he 
found at number twelve, Grimmauld Place, London. 



Page | 76 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






NUMBER TWELVE, GRIMMAULD 
PLACE 

“What’s the Order of the — ?” Harry began. 

“Not here, boy!” snarled Moody. “Wait till we’re 
inside!” 

He pulled the piece of parchment out of Harry’s hand 
and set fire to it with his wand tip. As the message 
curled into flames and floated to the ground, Harry 
looked around at the houses again. They were 
standing outside number eleven; he looked to the left 
and saw number ten; to the right, however, was 
number thirteen. 

“But where’s — ?” 

“Think about what you’ve just memorized,” said Lupin 
quietly. 

Harry thought, and no sooner had he reached the 
part about number twelve, Grimmauld Place, than a 



Page | 77 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



battered door emerged out of nowhere between 
numbers eleven and thirteen, followed swiftly by dirty 
walls and grimy windows. It was as though an extra 
house had inflated, pushing those on either side out 
of its way. Harry gaped at it. The stereo in number 
eleven thudded on. Apparently the Muggles inside 
hadn’t even felt anything. 

“Come on, hurry,” growled Moody, prodding Harry in 
the back. 

Harry walked up the worn stone steps, staring at the 
newly materialized door. Its black paint was shabby 
and scratched. The silver door knocker was in the 
form of a twisted serpent. There was no keyhole or 
letterbox. 

Lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. 
Harry heard many loud, metallic clicks and what 
sounded like the clatter of a chain. The door creaked 
open. 

“Get in quick, Harry,” Lupin whispered. “But don’t go 
far inside and don’t touch anything.” 

Harry stepped over the threshold into the almost total 
darkness of the hall. He could smell damp, dust, and 
a sweetish, rotting smell; the place had the feeling of 
a derelict building. He looked over his shoulder and 
saw the others filing in behind him, Lupin and Tonks 
carrying his trunk and Hedwig’s cage. Moody was 
standing on the top step and releasing the balls of 
light the Put-Outer had stolen from the street-lamps; 
they flew back to their bulbs and the square beyond 
glowed momentarily with orange light before Moody 
limped inside and closed the front door, so that the 
darkness in the hall became complete. 

“Here — ” 

Page | 78 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




He rapped Harry hard over the head with his wand; 
Harry felt as though something hot was trickling 
down his back this time and knew that the 
Disillusionment Charm must have lifted. 

“Now stay still, everyone, while I give us a bit of light 
in here,” Moody whispered. 

The others’ hushed voices were giving Harry an odd 
feeling of foreboding; it was as though they had just 
entered the house of a dying person. He heard a soft 
hissing noise and then old-fashioned gas lamps 
sputtered into life all along the walls, casting a 
flickering insubstantial light over the peeling 
wallpaper and threadbare carpet of a long, gloomy 
hallway, where a cobwebby chandelier glimmered 
overhead and age-blackened portraits hung crooked 
on the walls. Harry heard something scuttling behind 
the baseboard. Both the chandelier and the 
candelabra on a rickety table nearby were shaped like 
serpents. 

There were hurried footsteps and Ron’s mother, Mrs. 
Weasley, emerged from a door at the far end of the 
hall. She was beaming in welcome as she hurried 
toward them, though Harry noticed that she was 
rather thinner and paler than she had been last time 
he had seen her. 

“Oh, Harry, it’s lovely to see you!” she whispered, 
pulling him into a rib-cracking hug before holding 
him at arm’s length and examining him critically. 
“You’re looking peaky; you need feeding up, but you’ll 
have to wait a bit for dinner, I’m afraid...” 

She turned to the gang of wizards behind him and 
whispered urgently, “He’s just arrived, the meeting’s 
started...” 



Page | 79 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The wizards behind Harry all made noises of interest 
and excitement and began filing past Harry toward 
the door through which Mrs. Weasley had just come; 
Harry made to follow Lupin, but Mrs. Weasley held 
him back. 

“No, Harry, the meeting’s only for members of the 
Order. Ron and Hermione are upstairs, you can wait 
with them until the meeting’s over and then we’ll have 
dinner. And keep your voice down in the hall,” she 
added in an urgent whisper. 

“Why?” 

“I don’t want to wake anything up.” 

“What d’you — ?” 

“I’ll explain later, I’ve got to hurry, I’m supposed to be 
at the meeting — I’ll just show you where you’re 
sleeping.” 

Pressing her finger to her lips, she led him on tiptoes 
past a pair of long, moth-eaten curtains, behind 
which Harry supposed there must be another door, 
and after skirting a large umbrella stand that looked 
as though it had been made from a severed troll’s leg, 
they started up the dark staircase, passing a row of 
shrunken heads mounted on plaques on the wall. A 
closer look showed Harry that the heads belonged to 
house-elves. All of them had the same rather 
snoutlike nose. 

Harry’s bewilderment deepened with every step he 
took. What on earth were they doing in a house that 
looked as though it belonged to the Darkest of 
wizards? 

“Mrs. Weasley, why — ?” 

Page | 80 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron and Hermione will explain everything, dear, I’ve 
really got to dash,” Mrs. Weasley whispered 
distractedly. “There” — they had reached the second 
landing — “you’re the door on the right. I’ll call you 
when it’s over.” 

And she hurried off downstairs again. 

Harry crossed the dingy landing, turned the bedroom 
doorknob, which was shaped like a serpent’s head, 
and opened the door. 

He caught a brief glimpse of a gloomy high-ceilinged, 
twin-bedded room, then there was a loud twittering 
noise, followed by an even louder shriek, and his 
vision was completely obscured by a large quantity of 
very bushy hair — Hermione had thrown herself onto 
him in a hug that nearly knocked him flat, while 
Ron’s tiny owl, Pigwidgeon, zoomed excitedly round 
and round their heads. 

“HARRY! Ron, he’s here, Harry’s here! We didn’t hear 
you arrive! Oh, how are you? Are you all right? Have 
you been furious with us? I bet you have, I know our 
letters were useless — but we couldn’t tell you 
anything, Dumbledore made us swear we wouldn’t, 
oh, we’ve got so much to tell you, and you’ve got to 
tell us — the dementors! When we heard — and that 
Ministry hearing — it’s just outrageous, I’ve looked it 
all up, they can’t expel you, they just can’t, there’s 
provision in the Decree for the Restriction of 
Underage Sorcery for the use of magic in life- 
threatening situations — ” 

“Let him breathe, Hermione,” said Ron, grinning, 
closing the door behind Harry. He seemed to have 
grown several more inches during their month apart, 
making him taller and more gangly looking than ever, 



Page | 81 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




though the long nose, bright red hair, and freckles 
were the same. 

Hermione, still beaming, let go of Harry, but before 
she could say another word there was a soft 
whooshing sound and something white soared from 
the top of a dark wardrobe and landed gently on 
Harry’s shoulder. 

“Hedwig!” 

The snowy owl clicked her beak and nibbled his ear 
affectionately as Harry stroked her feathers. 

“She’s been in a right state,” said Ron. “Pecked us 
half to death when she brought your last letters, look 
at this — ” 

He showed Harry the index finger of his right hand, 
which sported a half-healed but clearly deep cut. 

“Oh yeah,” Harry said. “Sorry about that, but I 
wanted answers, you know...” 

“We wanted to give them to you, mate,” said Ron. 
“Hermione was going spare, she kept saying you’d do 
something stupid if you were stuck all on your own 
without news, but Dumbledore made us — ” 

“ — swear not to tell me,” said Harry. “Yeah, 
Hermione’s already said.” 

The warm glow that had flared inside him at the sight 
of his two best friends was extinguished as something 
icy flooded the pit of his stomach. All of a sudden — 
after yearning to see them for a solid month — he felt 
he would rather Ron and Hermione left him alone. 



Page | 82 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a strained silence in which Harry stroked 
Hedwig automatically, not looking at either of the 
others. 

“He seemed to think it was best,” said Hermione 
rather breathlessly. “Dumbledore, I mean.” 

“Right,” said Harry. He noticed that her hands too 
bore the marks of Hedwig’s beak and found that he 
was not at all sorry. 

“I think he thought you were safest with the Muggles 
— ” Ron began. 

“Yeah?” said Harry, raising his eyebrows. “Have either 
of you been attacked by dementors this summer?” 

“Well, no — but that’s why he’s had people from the 
Order of the Phoenix tailing you all the time — ” 

Harry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had 
just missed a step going downstairs. So everyone had 
known he was being followed except him. 

“Didn’t work that well, though, did it?” said Harry, 
doing his utmost to keep his voice even. “Had to look 
after myself after all, didn’t I?” 

“He was so angry,” said Hermione in an almost 
awestruck voice. “Dumbledore. We saw him. When he 
found out Mundungus had left before his shift had 
ended. He was scary.” 

“Well, I’m glad he left,” Harry said coldly. “If he 
hadn’t, I wouldn’t have done magic and Dumbledore 
would probably have left me at Privet Drive all 
summer.” 



Page | 83 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Aren’t you ... aren’t you worried about the Ministry of 
Magic hearing?” said Hermione quietly. 

“No,” Harry lied defiantly. He walked away from them, 
looking around, with Hedwig nestled contentedly on 
his shoulder, but this room was not likely to raise his 
spirits. It was dank and dark. A blank stretch of 
canvas in an ornate picture frame was all that 
relieved the bareness of the peeling walls and as 
Harry passed it he thought he heard someone lurking 
out of sight snigger. 

“So why’s Dumbledore been so keen to keep me in the 
dark?” Harry asked, still trying hard to keep his voice 
casual. “Did you — er — bother to ask him at all?” 

He glanced up just in time to see them exchanging a 
look that told him he was behaving just as they had 
feared he would. It did nothing to improve his temper. 

“We told Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was 
going on,” said Ron. “We did, mate. But he’s really 
busy now, we’ve only seen him twice since we came 
here and he didn’t have much time, he just made us 
swear not to tell you important stuff when we wrote, 
he said the owls might be intercepted — ” 

“He could still’ve kept me informed if he’d wanted to,” 
Harry said shortly. “You’re not telling me he doesn’t 
know ways to send messages without owls.” 

Hermione glanced at Ron and then said, “I thought 
that too. But he didn’t want you to know anything.” 

“Maybe he thinks I can’t be trusted,” said Harry, 
watching their expressions. 

“Don’t be thick,” said Ron, looking highly 
disconcerted. 

Page | 84 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Or that I can’t take care of myself — ” 



“Of course he doesn’t think that!” said Hermione 
anxiously. 

“So how come I have to stay at the Dursleys’ while 
you two get to join in everything that’s going on 
here?” said Harry, the words tumbling over one 
another in a rush, his voice growing louder with every 
word. “How come you two are allowed to know 
everything that’s going on — ?” 

“We’re not!” Ron interrupted. “Mum won’t let us near 
the meetings, she says we’re too young — ” 

But before he knew it, Harry was shouting. 

“SO YOU HAVEN’T BEEN IN THE MEETINGS, BIG 
DEAL! YOUVE STILL BEEN HERE, HAVEN T YOU? 
YOUVE STILL BEEN TOGETHER! ME, IVE BEEN 
STUCK AT THE DURSLEYS’ FOR A MONTH! AND IVE 
HANDLED MORE THAN YOU TWOVE EVER 
MANAGED AND DUMBLEDORE KNOWS IT — WHO 
SAVED THE SORCERER’S STONE? WHO GOT RID 
OF RIDDLE? WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR SKINS FROM 
THE DEMENTORS?” 

Every bitter and resentful thought that Harry had had 
in the past month was pouring out of him; his 
frustration at the lack of news, the hurt that they had 
all been together without him, his fury at being 
followed and not told about it: All the feelings he was 
half-ashamed of finally burst their boundaries. 

Hedwig took fright at the noise and soared off on top 
of the wardrobe again; Pigwidgeon twittered in alarm 
and zoomed even faster around their heads. 

“WHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAGONS AND SPHINXES 
AND EVERY OTHER FOUL THING LAST YEAR? WHO 

Page | 85 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




SAW HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO ESCAPE 
FROM HIM? ME!” 



Ron was standing there with his mouth half-open, 
clearly stunned and at a loss for anything to say, 
while Hermione looked on the verge of tears. 

“BUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHAT’S GOING ON? 
WHY SHOULD ANYONE BOTHER TO TELL ME 
WHAT’S BEEN HAPPENING?” 



“Harry, we wanted to tell you, we really did — ” 
Hermione began. 



“CANTVE WANTED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR 
YOU’D HAVE SENT ME AN OWL, BUT DUMBLEDORE 
MADE YOU SWEAR — ” 



“Well, he did — ” 

“FOUR WEEKS IVE BEEN STUCK IN PRIVET DRIVE, 
NICKING PAPERS OUT OF BINS TO TRY AND FIND 
OUT WHAT’S BEEN GOING ON — ” 



“We wanted to — ” 

“I SUPPOSE YOUVE BEEN HAVING A REAL LAUGH, 
HAVENT YOU, ALL HOLED UP HERE TOGETHER — ” 

“No, honest — ” 

“Harry, we’re really sorry!” said Hermione desperately, 
her eyes now sparkling with tears. “You’re absolutely 
right, Harry — I’d be furious if it was me!” 

Harry glared at her, still breathing deeply, then 
turned away from them again, pacing up and down. 
Hedwig hooted glumly from the top of the wardrobe. 



Page | 86 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a long pause, broken only by the mournful 
creak of the floorboards below Harry’s feet. 

“What is this place anyway?” he shot at Ron and 
Hermione. 

“Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix,” said Ron 
at once. 

“Is anyone going to bother telling me what the Order 
of the Phoenix — ?” 

“It’s a secret society,” said Hermione quickly. 
“Dumbledore’s in charge, he founded it. It’s the people 
who fought against You-Know-Who last time.” 

“Who’s in it?” said Harry, coming to a halt with his 
hands in his pockets. 

“Quite a few people — ” 

“ — we’ve met about twenty of them,” said Ron, “but 
we think there are more...” 

Harry glared at them. 

“ Well?” he demanded, looking from one to the other. 
“Er,” said Ron. “Well what?” 

“Voldemorti” said Harry furiously, and both Ron and 
Hermione winced. “What’s happening? What’s he up 
to? Where is he? What are we doing to stop him?” 

“We’ve told you, the Order don’t let us in on their 
meetings,” said Hermione nervously. “So we don’t 
know the details — but we’ve got a general idea — ” 
she added hastily, seeing the look on Harry’s face. 



Page | 87 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Fred and George have invented Extendable Ears, 
see,” said Ron. “They’re really useful.” 



“Extendable — ?” 

“Ears, yeah. Only we’ve had to stop using them lately 
because Mum found out and went berserk. Fred and 
George had to hide them all to stop Mum binning 
them. But we got a good bit of use out of them before 
Mum realized what was going on. We know some of 
the Order are following known Death Eaters, keeping 
tabs on them, you know — ” 

“ — some of them are working on recruiting more 
people to the Order — ” said Hermione. 

“ — and some of them are standing guard over 
something,” said Ron. “They’re always talking about 
guard duty.” 

“Couldn’t have been me, could it?” said Harry 
sarcastically. 

“Oh yeah,” said Ron, with a look of dawning 
comprehension. 

Harry snorted. He walked around the room again, 
looking anywhere but at Ron and Hermione. “So what 
have you two been doing, if you’re not allowed in 
meetings?” he demanded. “You said you’d been busy.” 

“We have,” said Hermione quickly. “We’ve been 
decontaminating this house, it’s been empty for ages 
and stuff’s been breeding in here. We’ve managed to 
clean out the kitchen, most of the bedrooms, and I 
think we’re doing the drawing room tomo — AARGH!” 

With two loud cracks, Fred and George, Ron’s elder 
twin brothers, had materialized out of thin air in the 

Page | 88 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




middle of the room. Pigwidgeon twittered more wildly 
than ever and zoomed off to join Hedwig on top of the 
wardrobe. 

“Stop doing that!” Hermione said weakly to the twins, 
who were as vividly red-haired as Ron, though 
stockier and slightly shorter. 

“Hello, Harry,” said George, beaming at him. “We 
thought we heard your dulcet tones.” 

“You don’t want to bottle up your anger like that, 
Harry, let it all out,” said Fred, also beaming. “There 
might be a couple of people fifty miles away who 
didn’t hear you.” 

“You two passed your Apparation tests, then?” asked 
Harry grumpily. 

“With distinction,” said Fred, who was holding what 
looked like a piece of very long, flesh-colored string. 

“It would have taken you about thirty seconds longer 
to walk down the stairs,” said Ron. 

“Time is Galleons, little brother,” said Fred. “Anyway, 
Harry, you’re interfering with reception. Extendable 
Ears,” he added in response to Harry’s raised 
eyebrows, holding up the string, which Harry now 
saw was trailing out onto the landing. “We’re trying to 
hear what’s going on downstairs.” 

“You want to be careful,” said Ron, staring at the ear. 
“If Mum sees one of them again ...” 

“It’s worth the risk, that’s a major meeting they’re 
having,” said Fred. 



Page | 89 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The door opened and a long mane of red hair 
appeared. 

“Oh hello, Harry!” said Ron’s younger sister, Ginny, 
brightly. “I thought I heard your voice.” 

Turning to Fred and George she said, “It’s no go with 
the Extendable Ears, she’s gone and put an 
Imperturbable Charm on the kitchen door.” 

“How d’you know?” said George, looking crestfallen. 

“Tonks told me how to find out,” said Ginny. “You just 
chuck stuff at the door and if it can’t make contact 
the door’s been Imperturbed. I’ve been flicking 
Dungbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they 
just soar away from it, so there’s no way the 
Extendable Ears will be able to get under the gap.” 

Fred heaved a deep sigh. “Shame. I really fancied 
finding out what old Snape’s been up to.” 

“Snape?” said Harry quickly. “Is he here?” 

“Yeah,” said George, carefully closing the door and 
sitting down on one of the beds; Fred and Ginny 
followed. “Giving a report. Top secret.” 

“Git,” said Fred idly. 

“He’s on our side now,” said Hermione reprovingly. 

Ron snorted. “Doesn’t stop him being a git. The way 
he looks at us when he sees us...” 

“Bill doesn’t like him either,” said Ginny, as though 
that settled the matter. 



Page | 90 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry was not sure his anger had abated yet; but his 
thirst for information was now overcoming his urge to 
keep shouting. He sank onto the bed opposite the 
others. 

