/ 




OWL POST 

Harry Potter was a highly unusual boy in many ways. 
For one thing, he hated the summer holidays more 
than any other time of year. For another, he really 
wanted to do his homework but was forced to do it in 
secret, in the dead of night. And he also happened to 
be a wizard. 

It was nearly midnight, and he was lying on his 
stomach in bed, the blankets drawn right over his 
head like a tent, a flashlight in one hand and a large 
leather-bound book (A History of Magic by Bathilda 
Bagshot) propped open against the pillow. Harry 
moved the tip of his eagle-feather quill down the page, 
frowning as he looked for something that would help 
him write his essay, “Witch Burning in the Fourteenth 
Century Was Completely Pointless — discuss.” 

The quill paused at the top of a likely-looking 
paragraph. Harry pushed his round glasses up the 
bridge of his nose, moved his flashlight closer to the 
book, and read: 



Page | 2 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Non-magic people (more commonly known as 
Muggles) were particularly afraid of magic in medieval 
times, but not very good at recognizing it. On the rare 
occasion that they did catch a real witch or wizard, 
burning had no effect whatsoever. The witch or wizard 
would perform a basic Flame Freezing Charm and 
then pretend to shriek with pain while enjoying a 
gentle, tickling sensation. Indeed, Wendelin the Weird 
enjoyed being burned so much that she allowed 
herself to be caught no less than forty-seven times in 
various disguises. 

Harry put his quill between his teeth and reached 
underneath his pillow for his ink bottle and a roll of 
parchment. Slowly and very carefully he unscrewed 
the ink bottle, dipped his quill into it, and began to 
write, pausing every now and then to listen, because 
if any of the Dursleys heard the scratching of his quill 
on their way to the bathroom, he’d probably find 
himself locked in the cupboard under the stairs for 
the rest of the summer. 

The Dursley family of number four, Privet Drive, was 
the reason that Harry never enjoyed his summer 
holidays. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and their son, 
Dudley, were Harry’s only living relatives. They were 
Muggles, and they had a very medieval attitude 
toward magic. Harry’s dead parents, who had been a 
witch and wizard themselves, were never mentioned 
under the Dursleys’ roof. For years, Aunt Petunia and 
Uncle Vernon had hoped that if they kept Harry as 
downtrodden as possible, they would be able to 
squash the magic out of him. To their fury, they had 
been unsuccessful. These days they lived in terror of 
anyone finding out that Harry had spent most of the 
last two years at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and 
Wizardry. The most they could do, however, was to 
lock away Harry’s spellbooks, wand, cauldron, and 



Page | 3 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




broomstick at the start of the summer break, and 
forbid him to talk to the neighbors. 

This separation from his spellbooks had been a real 
problem for Harry, because his teachers at Hogwarts 
had given him a lot of holiday work. One of the 
essays, a particularly nasty one about shrinking 
potions, was for Harry’s least favorite teacher, 
Professor Snape, who would be delighted to have an 
excuse to give Harry detention for a month. Harry had 
therefore seized his chance in the first week of the 
holidays. While Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and 
Dudley had gone out into the front garden to admire 
Uncle Vernon’s new company car (in very loud voices, 
so that the rest of the street would notice it too), 

Harry had crept downstairs, picked the lock on the 
cupboard under the stairs, grabbed some of his 
books, and hidden them in his bedroom. As long as 
he didn’t leave spots of ink on the sheets, the 
Dursleys need never know that he was studying 
magic by night. 

Harry was particularly keen to avoid trouble with his 
aunt and uncle at the moment, as they were already 
in an especially bad mood with him, all because he’d 
received a telephone call from a fellow wizard one 
week into the school vacation. 

Ron Weasley, who was one of Harry’s best friends at 
Hogwarts, came from a whole family of wizards. This 
meant that he knew a lot of things Harry didn’t, but 
had never used a telephone before. Most unluckily it 
had been Uncle Vernon who had answered the call. 

“Vernon Dursley speaking.” 

Harry, who happened to be in the room at the time, 
froze as he heard Ron’s voice answer. 



Page | 4 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“HELLO? HELLO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I — WANT — 
TO — TALK — TO — HARRY — POTTER!” 

Ron was yelling so loudly that Uncle Vernon jumped 
and held the receiver a foot away from his ear, staring 
at it with an expression of mingled fury and alarm. 

“WHO IS THIS?” he roared in the direction of the 
mouthpiece. “WHO ARE YOU?” 

“RON — WEASLEY!” Ron bellowed back, as though he 
and Uncle Vernon were speaking from opposite ends 
of a football field. “I’M — A — FRIEND — OF — 
HARRY’S — FROM — SCHOOL — ” 

Uncle Vernon’s small eyes swiveled around to Harry, 
who was rooted to the spot. 

“THERE IS NO HARRY POTTER HERE!” he roared, 
now holding the receiver at arm’s length, as though 
frightened it might explode. “I DONT KNOW WHAT 
SCHOOL YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT! NEVER 
CONTACT ME AGAIN! DONT YOU COME NEAR MY 
FAMILY!” 

And he threw the receiver back onto the telephone as 
if dropping a poisonous spider. 

The fight that had followed had been one of the worst 
ever. 

“HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUMBER TO PEOPLE 
LIKE — PEOPLE LIKE YOU!” Uncle Vernon had 
roared, spraying Harry with spit. 

Ron obviously realized that he’d gotten Harry into 
trouble, because he hadn’t called again. Harry’s other 
best friend from Hogwarts, Hermione Granger, hadn’t 
been in touch either. Harry suspected that Ron had 

Page | 5 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




warned Hermione not to call, which was a pity, 
because Hermione, the cleverest witch in Harry’s 
year, had Muggle parents, knew perfectly well how to 
use a telephone, and would probably have had 
enough sense not to say that she went to Hogwarts. 

So Harry had had no word from any of his wizarding 
friends for five long weeks, and this summer was 
turning out to be almost as bad as the last one. There 
was just one very small improvement — after 
swearing that he wouldn’t use her to send letters to 
any of his friends, Harry had been allowed to let his 
owl, Hedwig, out at night. Uncle Vernon had given in 
because of the racket Hedwig made if she was locked 
in her cage all the time. 

Harry finished writing about Wendelin the Weird and 
paused to listen again. The silence in the dark house 
was broken only by the distant, grunting snores of his 
enormous cousin, Dudley. It must be very late, Harry 
thought. His eyes were itching with tiredness. 

Perhaps he’d finish this essay tomorrow night. ... 

He replaced the top of the ink bottle; pulled an old 
pillowcase from under his bed; put the flashlight, A 
History of Magic, his essay, quill, and ink inside it; got 
out of bed; and hid the lot under a loose floorboard 
under his bed. Then he stood up, stretched, and 
checked the time on the luminous alarm clock on his 
bedside table. 

It was one o’clock in the morning. Harry’s stomach 
gave a funny jolt. He had been thirteen years old, 
without realizing it, for a whole hour. 

Yet another unusual thing about Harry was how little 
he looked forward to his birthdays. He had never 
received a birthday card in his life. The Dursleys had 



Page | 6 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




completely ignored his last two birthdays, and he had 
no reason to suppose they would remember this one. 

Harry walked across the dark room, past Hedwig’s 
large, empty cage, to the open window. He leaned on 
the sill, the cool night air pleasant on his face after a 
long time under the blankets. Hedwig had been 
absent for two nights now. Harry wasn’t worried 
about her: she’d been gone this long before. But he 
hoped she’d be back soon — she was the only living 
creature in this house who didn’t flinch at the sight of 
him. 

Harry, though still rather small and skinny for his 
age, had grown a few inches over the last year. His 
jet-black hair, however, was just as it always had 
been — stubbornly untidy, whatever he did to it. The 
eyes behind his glasses were bright green, and on his 
forehead, clearly visible through his hair, was a thin 
scar, shaped like a bolt of lightning. 

Of all the unusual things about Harry, this scar was 
the most extraordinary of all. It was not, as the 
Dursleys had pretended for ten years, a souvenir of 
the car crash that had killed Harry’s parents, because 
Lily and James Potter had not died in a car crash. 
They had been murdered, murdered by the most 
feared Dark wizard for a hundred years, Lord 
Voldemort. Harry had escaped from the same attack 
with nothing more than a scar on his forehead, where 
Voldemort’s curse, instead of killing him, had 
rebounded upon its originator. Barely alive, 

Voldemort had fled. ... 

But Harry had come face-to-face with him at 
Hogwarts. Remembering their last meeting as he 
stood at the dark window, Harry had to admit he was 
lucky even to have reached his thirteenth birthday. 



Page | 7 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He scanned the starry sky for a sign of Hedwig, 
perhaps soaring back to him with a dead mouse 
dangling from her beak, expecting praise. Gazing 
absently over the rooftops, it was a few seconds before 
Harry realized what he was seeing. 

Silhouetted against the golden moon, and growing 
larger every moment, was a large, strangely lopsided 
creature, and it was flapping in Harry’s direction. He 
stood quite still, watching it sink lower and lower. For 
a split second he hesitated, his hand on the window 
latch, wondering whether to slam it shut. But then 
the bizarre creature soared over one of the street 
lamps of Privet Drive, and Harry, realizing what it 
was, leapt aside. 

Through the window soared three owls, two of them 
holding up the third, which appeared to be 
unconscious. They landed with a soft flump on 
Harry’s bed, and the middle owl, which was large and 
gray, keeled right over and lay motionless. There was 
a large package tied to its legs. 

Harry recognized the unconscious owl at once — his 
name was Errol, and he belonged to the Weasley 
family. Harry dashed to the bed, untied the cords 
around Errol’s legs, took off the parcel, and then 
carried Errol to Hedwig’s cage. Errol opened one 
bleary eye, gave a feeble hoot of thanks, and began to 
gulp some water. 

Harry turned back to the remaining owls. One of 
them, the large snowy female, was his own Hedwig. 
She, too, was carrying a parcel and looked extremely 
pleased with herself. She gave Harry an affectionate 
nip with her beak as he removed her burden, then 
flew across the room to join Errol. 



Page | 8 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry didn’t recognize the third owl, a handsome 
tawny one, but he knew at once where it had come 
from, because in addition to a third package, it was 
carrying a letter bearing the Hogwarts crest. When 
Harry relieved this owl of its burden, it ruffled its 
feathers importantly, stretched its wings, and took off 
through the window into the night. 

Harry sat down on his bed and grabbed Errol’s 
package, ripped off the brown paper, and discovered a 
present wrapped in gold, and his first ever birthday 
card. Fingers trembling slightly, he opened the 
envelope. Two pieces of paper fell out — a letter and a 
newspaper clipping. 

The clipping had clearly come out of the wizarding 
newspaper, the Daily Prophet, because the people in 
the black-and-white picture were moving. Harry 
picked up the clipping, smoothed it out, and read: 

MINISTRY OF MAGIC EMPLOYEE 

SCOOPS GRAND PRIZE 

Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts 
Office at the Ministry of Magic, has won the annual 
Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw. 

A delighted Mr. Weasley told the Daily Prophet, “We 
will be spending the gold on a summer holiday in 
Egypt, where our eldest son, Bill, works as a curse 
breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank. ” 

The Weasley family will be spending a month in 
Egypt, returning for the start of the new school year 
at Hogwarts, which five of the Weasley children 
currently attend. 



Page | 9 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry scanned the moving photograph, and a grin 
spread across his face as he saw all nine of the 
Weasleys waving furiously at him, standing in front of 
a large pyramid. Plump little Mrs. Weasley; tall, 
balding Mr. Weasley; six sons; and one daughter, all 
(though the black-and-white picture didn’t show it) 
with flaming-red hair. Right in the middle of the 
picture was Ron, tall and gangling, with his pet rat, 
Scabbers, on his shoulder and his arm around his 
little sister, Ginny. 

Harry couldn’t think of anyone who deserved to win a 
large pile of gold more than the Weasleys, who were 
very nice and extremely poor. He picked up Ron’s 
letter and unfolded it. 

Dear Harry, 

Happy birthday! 

Look, I’m really sorry about that telephone call. I hope 
the Muggles didn’t give you a hard time. I asked Dad, 
and he reckons I shouldn’t have shouted. 

It’s amazing here in Egypt. Bill’s taken us around all 
the tombs and you wouldn’t believe the curses those 
old Egyptian wizards put on them. Mum wouldn’t let 
Ginny come in the last one. There were all these 
mutant skeletons in there, of Muggles who’d broken in 
and grown extra heads and stuff. 

I couldn’t believe it when Dad won the Daily Prophet 
Draw. Seven hundred galleons! Most of it’s gone on 
this trip, but they’re going to buy me a new wand for 
next year. 

Harry remembered only too well the occasion when 
Ron’s old wand had snapped. It had happened when 



Page | 10 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




the car the two of them had been flying to Hogwarts 
had crashed into a tree on the school grounds. 

We’ll be back about a week before term starts and 
we’ll be going up to London to get my wand and our 
new books. Any chance of meeting you there? 

Don’t let the Muggles get you down! 

Try and come to London, 

Ron 

PS. Percy’s Head Boy. He got the letter last week. 

Harry glanced back at the photograph. Percy, who 
was in his seventh and final year at Hogwarts, was 
looking particularly smug. He had pinned his Head 
Boy badge to the fez perched jauntily on top of his 
neat hair, his horn-rimmed glasses flashing in the 
Egyptian sun. 

Harry now turned to his present and unwrapped it. 
Inside was what looked like a miniature glass 
spinning top. There was another note from Ron 
beneath it. 

Harry — this is a Pocket Sneakoscope. If there’s 
someone untrustworthy around, it’s supposed to light 
up and spin. Bill says it’s rubbish sold for wizard 
tourists and isn’t reliable, because it kept lighting up at 
dinner last night. But he didn’t realize Fred and George 
had put beetles in his soup. 

Bye — 

Ron 



Page | 11 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry put the Pocket Sneakoscope on his bedside 
table, where it stood quite still, balanced on its point, 
reflecting the luminous hands of his clock. He looked 
at it happily for a few seconds, then picked up the 
parcel Hedwig had brought. 

Inside this, too, there was a wrapped present, a card, 
and a letter, this time from Hermione. 

Dear Harry, 

Ron wrote to me and told me about his phone call to 
your Uncle Vernon. I do hope you’re all right. 

I’m on holiday in France at the moment and I didn’t 
know how I was going to send this to you — what if 
they’d opened it at customs? — but then Hedwig 
turned up! I think she wanted to make sure you got 
something for your birthday for a change. I bought your 
present by owl-order; there was an advertisement in 
the Daily Prophet (I’ve been getting it delivered; it’s so 
good to keep up with what’s going on in the wizarding 
world). Did you see that picture of Ron and his family a 
week ago? I bet he’s learning loads. I’m really jealous 
— the ancient Egyptian wizards were fascinating. 

There’s some interesting local history of witchcraft 
here, too. I’ve rewritten my whole History of Magic 
essay to include some of the things I’ve found out. I 
hope it’s not too long — it’s two rolls of parchment more 
than Professor Binns asked for. 

Ron says he’s going to be in London in the last week of 
the holidays. Can you make it? Will your aunt and 
uncle let you come? I really hope you can. If not, I’ll see 
you on the Hogwarts Express on September first! 

Love from 



Page | 12 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione 



PS. Ron says Percy’s Head Boy. I’ll bet Percy’s really 
pleased. 

Ron doesn’t seem too happy about it. 

Harry laughed as he put Hermione ’s letter aside and 
picked up her present. It was very heavy. Knowing 
Hermione, he was sure it would be a large book full of 
very difficult spells — but it wasn’t. His heart gave a 
huge bound as he ripped back the paper and saw a 
sleek black leather case, with silver words stamped 
across it, reading Broomstick Servicing Kit. 

“Wow, Hermione!” Harry whispered, unzipping the 
case to look inside. 

There was a large jar of Fleetwood’s High-Finish 
Handle Polish, a pair of gleaming silver Tail-Twig 
Clippers, a tiny brass compass to clip on your broom 
for long journeys, and a Handbook of Do-It-Yourself 
Broomcare. 

Apart from his friends, the thing that Harry missed 
most about Hogwarts was Quidditch, the most 
popular sport in the magical world — highly 
dangerous, very exciting, and played on broomsticks. 
Harry happened to be a very good Quidditch player; 
he had been the youngest person in a century to be 
picked for one of the Hogwarts House teams. One of 
Harry’s most prized possessions was his Nimbus Two 
Thousand racing broom. 

Harry put the leather case aside and picked up his 
last parcel. He recognized the untidy scrawl on the 
brown paper at once: this was from Hagrid, the 
Hogwarts gamekeeper. He tore off the top layer of 
paper and glimpsed something green and leathery, 
Page | 13 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




but before he could unwrap it properly, the parcel 
gave a strange quiver, and whatever was inside it 
snapped loudly — as though it had jaws. 

Harry froze. He knew that Hagrid would never send 
him anything dangerous on purpose, but then, 

Hagrid didn’t have a normal person’s view of what 
was dangerous. Hagrid had been known to befriend 
giant spiders, buy vicious, three-headed dogs from 
men in pubs, and sneak illegal dragon eggs into his 
cabin. 

Harry poked the parcel nervously. It snapped loudly 
again. Harry reached for the lamp on his bedside 
table, gripped it firmly in one hand, and raised it over 
his head, ready to strike. Then he seized the rest of 
the wrapping paper in his other hand and pulled. 

And out fell — a book. Harry just had time to register 
its handsome green cover, emblazoned with the 
golden title The Monster Book of Monsters, before it 
flipped onto its edge and scuttled sideways along the 
bed like some weird crab. 

“Uh-oh,” Harry muttered. 

The book toppled off the bed with a loud clunk and 
shuffled rapidly across the room. Harry followed it 
stealthily. The book was hiding in the dark space 
under his desk. Praying that the Dursleys were still 
fast asleep, Harry got down on his hands and knees 
and reached toward it. 

“Ouch!” 

The book snapped shut on his hand and then flapped 
past him, still scuttling on its covers. Harry 
scrambled around, threw himself forward, and 



Page | 14 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




managed to flatten it. Uncle Vernon gave a loud, 
sleepy grunt in the room next door. 

Hedwig and Errol watched interestedly as Harry 
clamped the struggling book tightly in his arms, 
hurried to his chest of drawers, and pulled out a belt, 
which he buckled tightly around it. The Monster Book 
shuddered angrily, but could no longer flap and snap, 
so Harry threw it down on the bed and reached for 
Hagrid’s card. 

Dear Harry, 

Happy birthday! 

Think you might find this useful for next year. 

Won’t say no more here. Tell you when I see you. 

Hope the Muggles are treating you right. 

All the best, 

Hagrid 

It struck Harry as ominous that Hagrid thought a 
biting book would come in useful, but he put Hagrid’s 
card up next to Ron’s and Hermione’s, grinning more 
broadly than ever. Now there was only the letter from 
Hogwarts left. 

Noticing that it was rather thicker than usual, Harry 
slit open the envelope, pulled out the first page of 
parchment within, and read: 

Dear Mr. Potter, 

Please note that the new school year will begin on 
September the first. The Hogwarts Express will leave 

Page | 15 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




from King’s Cross station, platform nine and three- 
quarters, at eleven o’clock. 

Third years are permitted to visit the village of 
Hogsmeade on certain weekends. Please give the 
enclosed permission form to your parent or guardian to 
sign. 

A list of books for next year is enclosed. 

Yours sincerely, 

Professor M. McGonagall 
Deputy Headmistress 

Harry pulled out the Hogsmeade permission form and 
looked at it, no longer grinning. It would be wonderful 
to visit Hogsmeade on weekends; he knew it was an 
entirely wizarding village, and he had never set foot 
there. But how on earth was he going to persuade 
Uncle Vernon or Aunt Petunia to sign the form? 

He looked over at the alarm clock. It was now two 
o’clock in the morning. 

Deciding that he’d worry about the Hogsmeade form 
when he woke up, Harry got back into bed and 
reached up to cross off another day on the chart he’d 
made for himself, counting down the days left until 
his return to Hogwarts. Then he took off his glasses 
and lay down, eyes open, facing his three birthday 
cards. 

Extremely unusual though he was, at that moment 
Harry Potter felt just like everyone else — glad, for the 
first time in his life, that it was his birthday. 



Page | 16 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 





AUNT MARGE’S BIG MISTAKE 

Harry went down to breakfast the next morning to 
find the three Dursleys already sitting around the 
kitchen table. They were watching a brand-new 
television, a welcome-home-for-the-summer present 
for Dudley, who had been complaining loudly about 
the long walk between the fridge and the television in 
the living room. Dudley had spent most of the 
summer in the kitchen, his piggy little eyes fixed on 
the screen and his five chins wobbling as he ate 
continually. 

Harry sat down between Dudley and Uncle Vernon, a 
large, beefy man with very little neck and a lot of 
mustache. Far from wishing Harry a happy birthday, 
none of the Dursleys made any sign that they had 
noticed Harry enter the room, but Harry was far too 
used to this to care. He helped himself to a piece of 
toast and then looked up at the reporter on the 
television, who was halfway through a report on an 
escaped convict: 



Page | 17 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



"... The public is warned that Black is armed and 
extremely dangerous. A special hot line has been set 
up, and any sighting of Black should be reported 
immediately.” 

“No need to tell us he’s no good,” snorted Uncle 
Vernon, staring over the top of his newspaper at the 
prisoner. “Look at the state of him, the filthy 
layabout! Look at his hair!” 

He shot a nasty look sideways at Harry, whose untidy 
hair had always been a source of great annoyance to 
Uncle Vernon. Compared to the man on the 
television, however, whose gaunt face was 
surrounded by a matted, elbow-length tangle, Harry 
felt very well groomed indeed. 

The reporter had reappeared. 

“The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries will 
announce today — ” 

“Hang on!” barked Uncle Vernon, staring furiously at 
the reporter. “You didn’t tell us where that maniac’s 
escaped from! What use is that? Lunatic could be 
coming up the street right now!” 

Aunt Petunia, who was bony and horse-faced, 
whipped around and peered intently out of the 
kitchen window. Harry knew Aunt Petunia would 
simply love to be the one to call the hot line number. 
She was the nosiest woman in the world and spent 
most of her life spying on the boring, law-abiding 
neighbors. 

“When will they learn,” said Uncle Vernon, pounding 
the table with his large purple fist, “that hanging’s the 
only way to deal with these people?” 



Page | 18 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Very true,” said Aunt Petunia, who was still 
squinting into next door’s runner beans. 

Uncle Vernon drained his teacup, glanced at his 
watch, and added, “I’d better be off in a minute, 
Petunia. Marge’s train gets in at ten.” 

Harry, whose thoughts had been upstairs with the 
Broomstick Servicing Kit, was brought back to earth 
with an unpleasant bump. 

“Aunt Marge?” he blurted out. “Sh — she’s not 
coming here, is she?” 

Aunt Marge was Uncle Vernon’s sister. Even though 
she was not a blood relative of Harry’s (whose mother 
had been Aunt Petunia’s sister), he had been forced to 
call her “Aunt” all his life. Aunt Marge lived in the 
country, in a house with a large garden, where she 
bred bulldogs. She didn’t often stay at Privet Drive, 
because she couldn’t bear to leave her precious dogs, 
but each of her visits stood out horribly vividly in 
Harry’s mind. 

At Dudley’s fifth birthday party, Aunt Marge had 
whacked Harry around the shins with her walking 
stick to stop him from beating Dudley at musical 
statues. A few years later, she had turned up at 
Christmas with a computerized robot for Dudley and 
a box of dog biscuits for Harry. On her last visit, the 
year before Harry started at Hogwarts, Harry had 
accidentally trodden on the tail of her favorite dog. 
Ripper had chased Harry out into the garden and up 
a tree, and Aunt Marge had refused to call him off 
until past midnight. The memory of this incident still 
brought tears of laughter to Dudley’s eyes. 

“Marge’ll be here for a week,” Uncle Vernon snarled, 
“and while we’re on the subject” — he pointed a fat 

Page | 19 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




finger threateningly at Harry — “we need to get a few 
things straight before I go and collect her.” 

Dudley smirked and withdrew his gaze from the 
television. Watching Harry being bullied by Uncle 
Vernon was Dudley’s favorite form of entertainment. 

“Firstly,” growled Uncle Vernon, “you’ll keep a civil 
tongue in your head when you’re talking to Marge.” 

“All right,” said Harry bitterly, “if she does when she’s 
talking to me.” 

“Secondly,” said Uncle Vernon, acting as though he 
had not heard Harry’s reply, “as Marge doesn’t know 
anything about your abnormality, I don’t want any — 
any funny stuff while she’s here. You behave yourself, 
got me?” 

“I will if she does,” said Harry through gritted teeth. 

“And thirdly,” said Uncle Vernon, his mean little eyes 
now slits in his great purple face, “we’ve told Marge 
you attend St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably 
Criminal Boys.” 

“What?” Harry yelled. 

“And you’ll be sticking to that story, boy, or there’ll be 
trouble,” spat Uncle Vernon. 

Harry sat there, white-faced and furious, staring at 
Uncle Vernon, hardly able to believe it. Aunt Marge 
coming for a week-long visit — it was the worst 
birthday present the Dursleys had ever given him, 
including that pair of Uncle Vernon’s old socks. 



Page | 20 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, Petunia,” said Uncle Vernon, getting heavily to 
his feet, “111 be off to the station, then. Want to come 
along for the ride, Dudders?” 

“No,” said Dudley, whose attention had returned to 
the television now that Uncle Vernon had finished 
threatening Harry. 

“Duddy’s got to make himself smart for his auntie,” 
said Aunt Petunia, smoothing Dudley’s thick blond 
hair. “Mummy’s bought him a lovely new bow tie.” 

Uncle Vernon clapped Dudley on his porky shoulder. 

“See you in a bit, then,” he said, and he left the 
kitchen. 

Harry, who had been sitting in a kind of horrified 
trance, had a sudden idea. Abandoning his toast, he 
got quickly to his feet and followed Uncle Vernon to 
the front door. 

Uncle Vernon was pulling on his car coat. 

“I’m not taking you,” he snarled as he turned to see 
Harry watching him. 

“Like I wanted to come,” said Harry coldly. “I want to 
ask you something.” 

Uncle Vernon eyed him suspiciously. 

“Third years at Hog — at my school are allowed to 
visit the village sometimes,” said Harry. 

“So?” snapped Uncle Vernon, taking his car keys from 
a hook next to the door. 



Page | 21 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I need you to sign the permission form,” said Harry 
in a rush. 

“And why should I do that?” sneered Uncle Vernon. 

“Well,” said Harry, choosing his words carefully, “it’ll 
be hard work, pretending to Aunt Marge I go to that 
St. Whatsits — ” 

“St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal 
Boys!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, and Harry was pleased 
to hear a definite note of panic in Uncle Vernon’s 
voice. 

“Exactly,” said Harry, looking calmly up into Uncle 
Vernon’s large, purple face. “It’s a lot to remember. I’ll 
have to make it sound convincing, won’t I? What if I 
accidentally let something slip?” 

“ You’ll get the stuffing knocked out of you, won’t you?” 
roared Uncle Vernon, advancing on Harry with his fist 
raised. But Harry stood his ground. 

“Knocking the stuffing out of me won’t make Aunt 
Marge forget what I could tell her,” he said grimly. 

Uncle Vernon stopped, his fist still raised, his face an 
ugly puce. 

“But if you sign my permission form,” Harry went on 
quickly, “I swear I’ll remember where I’m supposed to 
go to school, and I’ll act like a Mug — like I’m normal 
and everything.” 

Harry could tell that Uncle Vernon was thinking it 
over, even if his teeth were bared and a vein was 
throbbing in his temple. 



Page | 22 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Right,” he snapped finally. “I shall monitor your 
behavior carefully during Marge’s visit. If, at the end 
of it, you’ve toed the line and kept to the story, I’ll 
sign your ruddy form.” 

He wheeled around, pulled open the front door, and 
slammed it so hard that one of the little panes of 
glass at the top fell out. 

Harry didn’t return to the kitchen. He went back 
upstairs to his bedroom. If he was going to act like a 
real Muggle, he’d better start now. Slowly and sadly 
he gathered up all his presents and his birthday 
cards and hid them under the loose floorboard with 
his homework. Then he went to Hedwig’s cage. Errol 
seemed to have recovered; he and Hedwig were both 
asleep, heads under their wings. Harry sighed, then 
poked them both awake. 

“Hedwig,” he said gloomily, “you’re going to have to 
clear off for a week. Go with Errol. Ron’ll look after 
you. I’ll write him a note, explaining. And don’t look at 
me like that” — Hedwig’s large amber eyes were 
reproachful — “it’s not my fault. It’s the only way I’ll 
be allowed to visit Hogsmeade with Ron and 
Hermione.” 

Ten minutes later, Errol and Hedwig (who had a note 
to Ron bound to her leg) soared out of the window 
and out of sight. Harry, now feeling thoroughly 
miserable, put the empty cage away inside the 
wardrobe. 

But Harry didn’t have long to brood. In next to no 
time, Aunt Petunia was shrieking up the stairs for 
Harry to come down and get ready to welcome their 
guest. 



Page | 23 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Do something about your hair!” Aunt Petunia 
snapped as he reached the hall. 

Harry couldn’t see the point of trying to make his hair 
lie flat. Aunt Marge loved criticizing him, so the 
untidier he looked, the happier she would be. 

All too soon, there was a crunch of gravel outside as 
Uncle Vernon’s car pulled back into the driveway, 
then the clunk of the car doors and footsteps on the 
garden path. 

“Get the door!” Aunt Petunia hissed at Harry. 

A feeling of great gloom in his stomach, Harry pulled 
the door open. 

On the threshold stood Aunt Marge. She was very like 
Uncle Vernon: large, beefy, and purple-faced, she 
even had a mustache, though not as bushy as his. In 
one hand she held an enormous suitcase, and tucked 
under the other was an old and evil-tempered 
bulldog. 

