“HARRY! HERMIONE!” yelled Ron, waving the silver 
Quidditch Cup in the air and looking quite beside 
himself. “WE DID IT! WE WON!” 



They beamed up at him as he passed; there was a 
scrum at the door of the castle and Ron’s head got 
rather badly bumped on the lintel, but nobody 
seemed to want to put him down. Still singing, the 
crowd squeezed itself into the entrance hall and out of 
sight. Harry and Hermione watched them go, 
beaming, until the last echoing strains of “Weasley Is 
Our King” died away. Then they turned to each other, 
their smiles fading. 

“We’ll save our news till tomorrow, shall we?” said 
Harry. 

“Yes, all right,” said Hermione wearily. “I’m not in any 
hurry...” 

They climbed the steps together. At the front doors 
both instinctively looked back at the Forbidden 
Forest. Harry was not sure whether it was his 
imagination or not, but he rather thought he saw a 
small cloud of birds erupting into the air over the 
treetops in the distance, almost as though the tree in 
which they had been nesting had just been pulled up 
by the roots. 



Page | 897Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






O.W.L.S 



Ron’s euphoria at helping Gryffindor scrape the 
Quidditch Cup was such that he could not settle to 
anything next day. All he wanted to do was talk over 
the match and Harry and Hermione found it very 
difficult to find an opening in which to mention 
Grawp — not that either of them tried very hard; 
neither was keen to be the one to bring Ron back to 
reality in quite such a brutal fashion. As it was 
another fine, warm day, they persuaded him to join 
them in studying under the beech tree on the edge of 
the lake, where they stood less chance of being 
overheard than in the common room. Ron was not 
particularly keen on this idea at first; he was 
thoroughly enjoying being patted on the back by 
Gryffindors walking past his chair, not to mention the 
occasional outbursts of “Weasley Is Our King,” but 
agreed after a while that some fresh air might do him 
good. 

They spread their books out in the shade of the beech 
tree and sat down while Ron talked them through his 



Page | 898Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



first save of the match for what felt like the dozenth 
time. 

“Well, I mean, I’d already let in that one of Davies’s, 
so I wasn’t feeling that confident, but I dunno, when 
Bradley came toward me, just out of nowhere, I 
thought — you can do this\ And I had about a second 
to decide which way to fly, you know, because he 
looked like he was aiming for the right goal hoop — 
my right, obviously, his left — but I had a funny 
feeling that he was feinting, and so I took the chance 
and flew left — his right, I mean — and — well — you 
saw what happened,” he concluded modestly, 
sweeping his hair back quite unnecessarily so that it 
looked interestingly windswept and glancing around 
to see whether the people nearest to them — a bunch 
of gossiping third-year Hufflepuffs — had heard him. 
“And then, when Chambers came at me about five 
minutes later — what?” Ron said, stopping mid- 
sentence at the look on Harry’s face. “Why are you 
grinning?” 

“I’m not,” said Harry quickly, looking down at his 
Transfiguration notes and attempting to straighten 
his face. The truth was that Ron had just reminded 
Harry forcibly of another Gryffindor Quidditch player 
who had once sat rumpling his hair under this very 
tree. “I’m just glad we won, that’s all.” 

“Yeah,” said Ron slowly, savoring the words, “we won. 
Did you see the look on Chang’s face when Ginny got 
the Snitch right out from under her nose?” 

“I suppose she cried, did she?” said Harry bitterly. 

“Well, yeah — more out of temper than anything, 
though ...” Ron frowned slightly. “But you saw her 
chuck her broom away when she got back to the 
ground, didn’t you?” 

Page | 899Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — ” said Harry. 

“Well, actually ... no, Ron,” said Hermione with a 
heavy sigh, putting down her book and looking at him 
apologetically. “As a matter of fact, the only bit of the 
match Harry and I saw was Davies’s first goal.” 

Ron’s carefully ruffled hair seemed to wilt with 
disappointment. 

“You didn’t watch?” he said faintly, looking from one 
to the other. “You didn’t see me make any of those 
saves?” 

“Well — no,” said Hermione, stretching out a 
placatory hand toward him. “But Ron, we didn’t want 
to leave — we had to!” 

“Yeah?” said Ron, whose face was growing rather red. 
“How come?” 

“It was Hagrid,” said Harry. “He decided to tell us why 
he’s been covered in injuries ever since he got back 
from the giants. He wanted us to go into the forest 
with him, we had no choice, you know how he gets... 
Anyway ...” 

The story was told in five minutes, by the end of 
which Ron’s indignation had been replaced by a look 
of total incredulity. 

“He brought one back and hid it in the forest?” 

“Yep,” said Harry grimly. 

“No,” said Ron, as though by saying this he could 
make it untrue. “No, he can’t have...” 



Page | 900Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, he has,” said Hermione firmly. “Grawp’s about 
sixteen feet tall, enjoys ripping up twenty-foot pine 
trees, and knows me,” she snorted, “as Hermy.” 

Ron gave a nervous laugh. 

“And Hagrid wants us to . . . ?” 

“Teach him English, yeah,” said Harry. 

“He’s lost his mind,” said Ron in an almost awed 
voice. 

“Yes,” said Hermione irritably, turning a page of 
Intermediate Transfiguration and glaring at a series of 
diagrams showing an owl turning into a pair of opera 
glasses. “Yes, I’m starting to think he has. But 
unfortunately, he made Harry and me promise.” 

“Well, you’re just going to have to break your promise, 
that’s all,” said Ron firmly. “I mean, come on ... We’ve 
got exams and we’re about that far,” he held up his 
hand to show thumb and forefinger a millimeter 
apart, “from being chucked out as it is. And anyway 
... remember Norbert? Remember Aragog? Have we 
ever come off better for mixing with any of Hagrid ’s 
monster mates?” 

“I know, it’s just that — we promised,” said Hermione 
in a small voice. 

Ron smoothed his hair flat again, looking 
preoccupied. 

“Well,” he sighed, “Hagrid hasn’t been sacked yet, has 
he? He’s hung on this long, maybe he’ll hang on till 
the end of term and we won’t have to go near Grawp 
at all.” 



Page | 901Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as 
though freshly painted; the cloudless sky smiled at 
itself in the smoothly sparkling lake, the satin-green 
lawns rippled occasionally in a gentle breeze: June 
had arrived, but to the fifth years this meant only one 
thing: Their O.W.L.s were upon them at last. 

Their teachers were no longer setting them 
homework; lessons were devoted to reviewing those 
topics their teachers thought most likely to come up 
in the exams. The purposeful, feverish atmosphere 
drove nearly everything but the O.W.L.s from Harry’s 
mind, though he did wonder occasionally during 
Potions lessons whether Lupin had ever told Snape 
that he must continue giving Harry Occlumency 
tuition: If he had, then Snape had ignored Lupin as 
thoroughly as he was now ignoring Harry. This suited 
Harry very well; he was quite busy and tense enough 
without extra classes with Snape, and to his relief 
Hermione was much too preoccupied these days to 
badger him about Occlumency. She was spending a 
lot of time muttering to herself and had not laid out 
any elf clothes for days. 

She was not the only person acting oddly as the 
O.W.L.s drew steadily nearer. Ernie Macmillan had 
developed an irritating habit of interrogating people 
about their study habits. 

“How many hours d’you think you’re doing a day?” he 
demanded of Harry and Ron as they queued outside 
Herbology, a manic gleam in his eyes. 

“I dunno,” said Ron. “A few ...” 

“More or less than eight?” 

“Less, I s’pose,” said Ron, looking slightly alarmed. 



Page | 902Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm doing eight,” said Ernie, puffing out his chest. 
“Eight or nine. I’m getting an hour in before breakfast 
every day. Eight’s my average. I can do ten on a good 
weekend day. I did nine and a half on Monday. Not so 
good on Tuesday — only seven and a quarter. Then 
on Wednesday — ■” 

Harry was deeply thankful that Professor Sprout 
ushered them into greenhouse three at that point, 
forcing Ernie to abandon his recital. 

Meanwhile Draco Malfoy had found a different way to 
induce panic. 

“Of course, it’s not what you know,” he was heard to 
tell Crabbe and Goyle loudly outside Potions a few 
days before the exams were to start, “it’s who you 
know. Now, Father’s been friendly with the head of 
the Wizarding Examinations Authority for years — old 
Griselda Marchbanks — we’ve had her round for 
dinner and everything...” 

“Do you think that’s true?” Hermione whispered to 
Harry and Ron, looking frightened. 

“Nothing we can do about it if it is,” said Ron 
gloomily. 

“I don’t think it’s true,” said Neville quietly from 
behind them. “Because Griselda Marchbanks is a 
friend of my gran’s, and she’s never mentioned the 
Malfoys.” 

“What’s she like, Neville?” asked Hermione at once. 

“Is she strict?” 

“Bit like Gran, really,” said Neville in a subdued voice. 



Page | 903Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Knowing her won’t hurt your chances though, will 
it?” Ron told him encouragingly. 

“Oh, I don’t think it will make any difference,” said 
Neville, still more miserably. “Gran’s always telling 
Professor Marchbanks I’m not as good as my dad... 
Well ... you saw what she’s like at St. Mungo’s...” 

Neville looked fixedly at the floor. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione glanced at one another, but didn’t know 
what to say. It was the first time that Neville had 
acknowledged that they had met at the Wizarding 
hospital. 

Meanwhile a flourishing black-market trade in aids to 
concentration, mental agility, and wakefulness had 
sprung up among the fifth and seventh years. Harry 
and Ron were much tempted by the bottle of 
Baruffio’s Brain Elixir offered to them by Ravenclaw 
sixth year Eddie Carmichael, who swore it was solely 
responsible for the nine “Outstanding” O.W.L.s he 
had gained the previous summer and was offering the 
whole pint for a mere twelve Galleons. Ron assured 
Harry he would reimburse him for his half the 
moment he left Hogwarts and got a job, but before 
they could close the deal, Hermione had confiscated 
the bottle from Carmichael and poured the contents 
down a toilet. 

“Hermione, we wanted to buy that!” shouted Ron. 

“Don’t be stupid,” she snarled. “You might as well 
take Harold Dingle’s powdered dragon claw and have 
done with it.” 

“Dingle’s got powdered dragon claw?” said Ron 
eagerly. 



Page | 904Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Not anymore,” said Hermione. “I confiscated that too. 
None of these things actually works you know — ” 

“Dragon claw does work!” said Ron. “It’s supposed to 
be incredible, really gives your brain a boost, you 
come over all cunning for a few hours — Hermione, 
let me have a pinch, go on, it can’t hurt — ” 

“This stuff can,” said Hermione grimly. “I’ve had a 
look at it, and it’s actually dried doxy droppings.” 

This information took the edge off Harry and Ron’s 
desire for brain stimulants. 

They received their examination schedules and details 
of the procedure for O.W.L.s during their next 
Transfiguration lesson. 

“As you can see,” Professor McGonagall told the class 
while they copied down the dates and times of their 
exams from the blackboard, “your O.W.L.s are spread 
over two successive weeks. You will sit the theory 
exams in the mornings and the practice in the 
afternoons. Your practical Astronomy examination 
will, of course, take place at night. 

“Now, I must warn you that the most stringent Anti- 
Cheating Charms have been applied to your 
examination papers. Auto-Answer Quills are banned 
from the examination hall, as are Remembralls, 
Detachable Cribbing Cuffs, and Self- Correcting Ink. 
Every year, I am afraid to say, seems to harbor at 
least one student who thinks that he or she can get 
around the Wizarding Examinations Authority’s rules. 
I can only hope that it is nobody in Gryffindor. Our 
new — headmistress” — Professor McGonagall 
pronounced the word with the same look on her face 
that Aunt Petunia had whenever she was 
contemplating a particularly stubborn bit of dirt — 
Page | 905Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“has asked the Heads of House to tell their students 
that cheating will be punished most severely — 
because, of course, your examination results will 
reflect upon the headmistress’s new regime at the 
school...” 

Professor McGonagall gave a tiny sigh. Harry saw the 
nostrils of her sharp nose flare. 

“However, that is no reason not to do your very best. 
You have your own futures to think about.” 

“Please, Professor,” said Hermione, her hand in the 
air, “when will we find out our results?” 

“An owl will be sent to you some time in July,” said 
Professor McGonagall. 

“Excellent,” said Dean Thomas in an audible whisper, 
“so we don’t have to worry about it till the holidays...” 

Harry imagined sitting in his bedroom in Privet Drive 
in six weeks’ time, waiting for his O.W.L. results. 

Well, he thought, at least he would be sure of one bit 
of post next summer... 

Their first exam, Theory of Charms, was scheduled for 
Monday morning. Harry agreed to test Hermione after 
lunch on Sunday but regretted it almost at once. She 
was very agitated and kept snatching the book back 
from him to check that she had gotten the answer 
completely right, finally hitting him hard on the nose 
with the sharp edge of Achievements in Charming. 

“Why don’t you just do it yourself?” he said firmly, 
handing the book back to her, his eyes watering. 

Meanwhile Ron was reading two years of Charms 
notes with his fingers in his ears, his lips moving 

Page | 906Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




soundlessly; Seamus was lying flat on his back on the 
floor, reciting the definition of a Substantive Charm, 
while Dean checked it against The Standard Book of 
Spells, Grade 5; and Parvati and Lavender, who were 
practicing basic locomotion charms, were making 
their pencil cases race each other around the edge of 
the table. 

Dinner was a subdued affair that night. Harry and 
Ron did not talk much, but ate with gusto, having 
studied hard all day. Hermione on the other hand 
kept putting down her knife and fork and diving 
under the table for her bag, from which she would 
seize a book to check some fact or figure. Ron was 
just telling her that she ought to eat a decent meal or 
she would not sleep that night, when her fork slid 
from her limp fingers and landed with a loud tinkle on 
her plate. 

“Oh, my goodness,” she said faintly, staring into the 
entrance hall. “Is that them? Is that the examiners?” 

Harry and Ron whipped around on their bench. 
Through the doors to the Great Hall they could see 
Umbridge standing with a small group of ancient- 
looking witches and wizards. Umbridge, Harry was 
pleased to see, looked rather nervous. 

“Shall we go and have a closer look?” said Ron. 

Harry and Hermione nodded and they hastened 
toward the double doors into the entrance hall, 
slowing down as they stepped over the threshold to 
walk sedately past the examiners. Harry thought 
Professor Marchbanks must be the tiny, stooped 
witch with a face so lined it looked as though it had 
been draped in cobwebs; Umbridge was speaking to 
her very deferentially. Professor Marchbanks seemed 



Page | 907Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to be a little deaf; she was answering Umbridge very 
loudly considering that they were only a foot apart. 

“Journey was fine, journey was fine, we’ve made it 
plenty of times before!” she said impatiently. “Now, I 
haven’t heard from Dumbledore lately!” she added, 
peering around the hall as though hopeful he might 
suddenly emerge from a broom cupboard. “No idea 
where he is, I suppose?” 

“None at all,” said Umbridge, shooting a malevolent 
look at Harry, Ron, and Hermione, who were now 
dawdling around the foot of the stairs as Ron 
pretended to do up his shoelace. “But I daresay the 
Ministry of Magic will track him down soon enough...” 

“I doubt it,” shouted tiny Professor Marchbanks, “not 
if Dumbledore doesn’t want to be found! I should 
know... Examined him personally in Transfiguration 
and Charms when he did N.E.W.T.s ... Did things 
with a wand I’d never seen before ...” 

“Yes ... well ...” said Professor Umbridge as Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione dragged their feet up the marble 
staircase as slowly as they dared, “let me show you to 
the staffroom ... I daresay you’d like a cup of tea after 
your journey...” 

It was an uncomfortable sort of an evening. Everyone 
was trying to do some last-minute studying but 
nobody seemed to be getting very far. Harry went to 
bed early but then lay awake for what felt like hours. 
He remembered his careers consultation and 
McGonagall’s furious declaration that she would help 
him become an Auror if it was the last thing she did... 
He wished he had expressed a more achievable 
ambition now that exam time was here... He knew 
that he was not the only one lying awake, but none of 



Page | 908Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the others in the dormitory spoke and finally, one by 
one, they fell asleep. 

None of the fifth years talked very much at breakfast 
next day either. Parvati was practicing incantations 
under her breath while the salt cellar in front of her 
twitched, Hermione was rereading Achievement in 
Charming so fast that her eyes appeared blurred, and 
Neville kept dropping his knife and fork and knocking 
over the marmalade. 

Once breakfast was over, the fifth and seventh years 
milled around in the entrance hall while the other 
students went off to lessons. Then, at half-past nine, 
they were called forward class by class to reenter the 
Great Hall, which was now arranged exactly as Harry 
had seen it in the Pensieve when his father, Sirius, 
and Snape had been taking their O.W.L.s. The four 
House tables had been removed and replaced instead 
with many tables for one, all facing the staff-table end 
of the Hall where Professor McGonagall stood facing 
them. When they were all seated and quiet she said, 
“You may begin,” and turned over an enormous 
hourglass on the desk beside her, on which were also 
spare quills, ink bottles, and rolls of parchment. 

Harry turned over his paper, his heart thumping 
hard... Three rows to his right and four seats ahead, 
Hermione was already scribbling. . . He lowered his 
eyes to the first question: a) Give the incantation, and 
b) describe the wand movement required to make 
objects fly... 

Harry had a fleeting memory of a club soaring high 
into the air and landing loudly on the thick skull of a 
troll... Smiling slightly, he bent over the paper and 
began to write... 



Page | 909Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, it wasn’t too bad, was it?” asked Hermione 
anxiously in the entrance hall two hours later, still 
clutching the exam paper. “I’m not sure I did myself 
justice on Cheering Charms, I just ran out of time — 
did you put in the countercharm for hiccups? I wasn’t 
sure whether I ought to, it felt like too much — and 
on question twenty-three — ” 

“Hermione,” said Ron sternly, “we’ve been through 
this before... We’re not going through every exam 
afterward, it’s bad enough doing them once.” 

The fifth years ate lunch with the rest of the school 
(the four House tables reappeared over the lunch 
hour) and then trooped off into the small chamber 
beside the Great Hall, where they were to wait until 
called for their practical examination. As small groups 
of students were called forward in alphabetical order, 
those left behind muttered incantations and practiced 
wand movements, occasionally poking one another in 
the back or eye by mistake. 

Hermione’s name was called. Trembling, she left the 
chamber with Anthony Goldstein, Gregory Goyle, and 
Daphne Greengrass. Students who had already been 
tested did not return afterward, so Harry and Ron 
had no idea how Hermione had done. 

“She’ll be fine — remember she got a hundred and 
twelve percent on one of our Charms tests?” said Ron. 

Ten minutes later, Professor Flitwick called, 
“Parkinson, Pansy — Patil, Padma — Patil, Parvati — 
Potter, Harry.” 

“Good luck,” said Ron quietly. Harry walked into the 
Great Hall, clutching his wand so tightly his hand 
shook. 



Page | 910Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor Tofty is free, Potter,” squeaked Professor 
Flitwick, who was standing just inside the door. He 
pointed Harry toward what looked like the very oldest 
and baldest examiner, who was sitting behind a small 
table in a far corner, a short distance from Professor 
Marchbanks, who was halfway through testing Draco 
Malfoy. 

“Potter, is it?” said Professor Tofty, consulting his 
notes and peering over his pince-nez at Harry as he 
approached. “The famous Potter?” 

Out of the corner of his eye, Harry distinctly saw 
Malfoy throw a scathing look over at him; the wine 
glass Malfoy had been levitating fell to the floor and 
smashed. Harry could not suppress a grin. Professor 
Tofty smiled back at him encouragingly. 

“That’s it,” he said in his quavery old voice, “no need 
to be nervous... Now, if I could ask you to take this 
eggcup and make it do some cartwheels for me...” 

On the whole Harry thought it went rather well; his 
Levitation Charm was certainly much better than 
Malfoy’s had been, though he wished he had not 
mixed up the incantations for Color- Change and 
Growth Charms, so that the rat he was supposed to 
be turning orange swelled shockingly and was the size 
of a badger before Harry could rectify his mistake. He 
was glad Hermione had not been in the Hall at the 
time and neglected to mention it to her afterward. He 
could tell Ron, though; Ron had caused a dinner plate 
to mutate into a large mushroom and had no idea 
how it had happened. 

There was no time to relax that night — they went 
straight to the common room after dinner and 
submerged themselves in studying for Transfiguration 



Page | 911Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




next day. Harry went to bed, his head buzzing with 
complex spell models and theories. 

He forgot the definition of a Switching Spell during his 
written exam next morning, but thought his practical 
could have been a lot worse. At least he managed to 
vanish the whole of his iguana, whereas poor Hannah 
Abbott lost her head completely at the next table and 
somehow managed to multiply her ferret into a flock 
of flamingos, causing the examination to be halted for 
ten minutes while the birds were captured and 
carried out of the Hall. 

They had their Herbology exam on Wednesday (other 
than a small bite from a Fanged Geranium, Harry felt 
he had done reasonably well) and then, on Thursday, 
Defense Against the Dark Arts. Here, for the first 
time, Harry felt sure he had passed. He had no 
problem with any of the written questions and took 
particular pleasure, during the practical examination, 
in performing all the counterjinxes and defensive 
spells right in front of Umbridge, who was watching 
coolly from near the doors into the entrance hall. 

“Oh bravo!” cried Professor Tofty, who was examining 
Harry again, when Harry demonstrated a perfect 
boggart banishing spell. “Very good indeed! Well, I 
think that’s all, Potter ... unless ...” 

He leaned forward a little. 

“I heard, from my dear friend Tiberius Ogden, that 
you can produce a Patronus? For a bonus point ... ?” 

Harry raised his wand, looked directly at Umbridge, 
and imagined her being sacked. 

“Expecto Patronum).” 



Page | 912Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The silver stag erupted from the end of his wand and 
cantered the length of the hall. All of the examiners 
looked around to watch its progress and when it 
dissolved into silver mist, Professor Tofty clapped his 
veined and knotted hands enthusiastically. 

“Excellent!” he said. “Very well, Potter, you may go!” 

As Harry passed Umbridge beside the door their eyes 
met. There was a nasty smile playing around her 
wide, slack mouth, but he did not care. Unless he was 
very much mistaken (and he was not planning on 
saying it to anybody, in case he was), he had just 
achieved an “Outstanding” O.W.L. 

On Friday, Harry and Ron had a day off while 
Hermione sat her Ancient Runes exam, and as they 
had the whole weekend in front of them, they 
permitted themselves a break from studying. They 
stretched and yawned beside the open window, 
through which warm summer air wafted over them as 
they played a desultory game of wizard chess. Harry 
could see Hagrid in the distance, teaching a class on 
the edge of the forest. He was trying to guess what 
creatures they were examining — he thought it must 
be unicorns, because the boys seemed to be standing 
back a little — when the portrait hole opened and 
Hermione clambered in, looking thoroughly bad 
tempered. 

“How were the runes?” said Ron, yawning and 
stretching. 

“I mistranslated ‘ehwaz,’ ” said Hermione furiously. “It 
means ‘partnership,’ not ‘defense,’ I mixed it up with 
‘eihwaz.’ ” 

“Ah well,” said Ron lazily, “that’s only one mistake, 
isn’t it, you’ll still get — ” 

Page | 913Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh shut up,” said Hermione angrily, “it could be the 
one mistake that makes the difference between a pass 
and a fail. And what’s more, someone’s put another 
niffler in Umbridge’s office, I don’t know how they got 
it through that new door, but I just walked past there 
and Umbridge is shrieking her head off — by the 
sound of it, it tried to take a chunk out of her leg — ” 

“Good,” said Harry and Ron together. 

“It is not good!” said Hermione hotly. “She thinks it’s 
Hagrid doing it, remember? And we do not want 
Hagrid chucked out!” 

“He’s teaching at the moment, she can’t blame him,” 
said Harry, gesturing out of the window. 

“Oh, you’re so naive sometimes, Harry, you really 
think Umbridge will wait for proof?” said Hermione, 
who seemed determined to be in a towering temper, 
and she swept off toward the girls’ dormitories, 
banging the door behind her. 

“Such a lovely, sweet-tempered girl,” said Ron, very 
quietly, prodding his queen forward so that she could 
begin beating up one of Harry’s knights. 

Hermione ’s bad mood persisted for most of the 
weekend, though Harry and Ron found it quite easy 
to ignore as they spent most of Saturday and Sunday 
studying for Potions on Monday, the exam to which 
Harry was looking forward least and which he was 
sure would be the one that would be the downfall of 
his ambitions to become an Auror. Sure enough, he 
found the written exam difficult, though he thought 
he might have got full marks on the question about 
Polyjuice Potion: He could describe its effects 
extremely accurately, having taken it illegally in his 
second year. 

Page | 914Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The afternoon practical was not as dreadful as he had 
expected it to be. With Snape absent from the 
proceedings he found that he was much more relaxed 
than he usually was while making potions. Neville, 
who was sitting very near Harry, also looked happier 
than Harry had ever seen him during a Potions class. 
When Professor Marchbanks said, “Step away from 
your cauldrons, please, the examination is over,” 
Harry corked his sample flask feeling that he might 
not have achieved a good grade but that he had, with 
luck, avoided a fail. 

“Only four exams left,” said Parvati Patil wearily as 
they headed back to Gryffindor common room. 

“Only!” said Hermione snappishly. “I’ve got 
Arithmancy and it’s probably the toughest subject 
there is!” 

Nobody was foolish enough to snap back, so she was 
unable to vent her spleen on any of them and was 
reduced to telling off some first years for giggling too 
loudly in the common room. 

Harry was determined to perform well in Tuesday’s 
Care of Magical Creatures exam so as not to let 
Hagrid down. The practical examination took place in 
the afternoon on the lawn on the edge of the 
Forbidden Forest, where students were required to 
correctly identify the knarl hidden among a dozen 
hedgehogs (the trick was to offer them all milk in 
turn: knarls, highly suspicious creatures whose quills 
had many magical properties, generally went berserk 
at what they saw as an attempt to poison them); then 
demonstrate correct handling of a bowtruckle, feed 
and clean a fire-crab without sustaining serious 
burns, and choose, from a wide selection of food, the 
diet they would give a sick unicorn. 



Page | 915Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could see Hagrid watching anxiously out of his 
cabin window. When Harry’s examiner, a plump little 
witch this time, smiled at him and told him he could 
leave, Harry gave Hagrid a fleeting thumbs-up before 
heading back up to the castle. 

The Astronomy theory exam on Wednesday morning 
went well enough; Harry was not convinced he had 
got the names of all of Jupiter’s moons right, but was 
at least confident that none of them was inhabited by 
mice. They had to wait until evening for their practical 
Astronomy; the afternoon was devoted instead to 
Divination. 

Even by Harry’s low standards in Divination, the 
exam went very badly. He might as well have tried to 
see moving pictures in the desktop as in the 
stubbornly blank crystal ball; he lost his head 
completely during tea-leaf reading, saying it looked to 
him as though Professor Marchbanks would shortly 
be meeting a round, dark, soggy stranger, and 
rounded off the whole fiasco by mixing up the life and 
head lines on her palm and informing her that she 
ought to have died the previous Tuesday. 

“Well, we were always going to fail that one,” said Ron 
gloomily as they ascended the marble staircase. He 
had just made Harry feel rather better by telling him 
how he told the examiner in detail about the ugly 
man with a wart on his nose in his crystal ball, only 
to look up and realize he had been describing his 
examiner’s reflection. 

“We shouldn’t have taken the stupid subject in the 
first place,” said Harry. 

“Still, at least we can give it up now.” 



Page | 916Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah,” said Harry. “No more pretending we care what 
happens when Jupiter and Uranus get too friendly ...” 

“And from now on, I don’t care if my tea leaves spell 
die, Ron, die — I’m just chucking them in the bin 
where they belong.” 

Harry laughed just as Hermione came running up 
behind them. He stopped laughing at once, in case it 
annoyed her. 

“Well, I think I’ve done all right in Arithmancy,” she 
said, and Harry and Ron both sighed with relief. “Just 
time for a quick look over our star charts before 
dinner, then ...” 

When they reached the top of the Astronomy Tower at 
eleven o’clock they found a perfect night for 
stargazing, cloudless and still. The grounds were 
bathed in silvery moonlight, and there was a slight 
chill in the air. Each of them set up his or her 
telescope and, when Professor Marchbanks gave the 
word, proceeded to fill in the blank star chart he or 
she had been given. 

Professors Marchbanks and Tofty strolled among 
them, watching as they entered the precise positions 
of the stars and planets they were observing. All was 
quiet except for the rustle of parchment, the 
occasional creak of a telescope as it was adjusted on 
its stand, and the scribbling of many quills. Half an 
hour passed, then an hour; the little squares of 
reflected gold light flickering on the ground below 
started to vanish as lights in the castle windows were 
extinguished. 

As Harry completed the constellation Orion on his 
chart, however, the front doors of the castle opened 
directly below the parapet where he was standing, so 

Page | 917Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that light spilled down the stone steps a little way 
across the lawn. Harry glanced down as he made a 
slight adjustment to the position of his telescope and 
saw five or six elongated shadows moving over the 
brightly lit grass before the doors swung shut and the 
lawn became a sea of darkness once more. 

Harry put his eye back to his telescope and refocused 
it, now examining Venus. He looked down at his chart 
to enter the planet there, but something distracted 
him. Pausing with his quill suspended over the 
parchment, he squinted down into the shadowy 
grounds and saw half a dozen figures walking over 
the lawn. If they had not been moving, and the 
moonlight had not been gilding the tops of their 
heads, they would have been indistinguishable from 
the dark ground on which they stood. Even at this 
distance, Harry had a funny feeling that he 
recognized the walk of the squattest among them, 
who seemed to be leading the group. 

He could not think why Umbridge would be taking a 
stroll outside past midnight, much less accompanied 
by five others. Then somebody coughed behind him, 
and he remembered that he was halfway through an 
exam. He had quite forgotten Venus’s position — 
jamming his eye to his telescope, he found it again 
and was again on the point of entering it on his chart 
when, alert for any odd sound, he heard a distant 
knock that echoed through the deserted grounds, 
followed immediately by the muffled barking of a large 
dog. 

He looked up, his heart hammering. There were lights 
on in Hagrid’s windows and the people he had 
observed crossing the lawn were now silhouetted 
against them. The door opened and he distinctly saw 
six tiny but sharply defined figures walk over the 



Page | 918Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




threshold. The door closed again and there was 
silence. 

Harry felt very uneasy. He glanced around to see 
whether Ron or Hermione had noticed what he had, 
but Professor Marchbanks came walking behind him 
at that moment, and not wanting to appear as though 
he was sneaking looks at anyone else’s work, he 
hastily bent over his star chart and pretended to be 
adding notes to it while really peering over the top of 
the parapet toward Hagrid’s cabin. Figures were now 
moving across the cabin windows, temporarily 
blocking the light. 

He could feel Professor Marchbanks’s eyes on the 
back of his neck and pressed his eye again to his 
telescope, staring up at the moon though he had 
marked its position an hour ago, but as Professor 
