over it. 

“What happened to you?” Harry demanded, while 
Fang danced around them all, trying to lick their 
faces. 

“Told yeh, nuthin said Hagrid firmly. “Want a 
cuppa?” 

“Come off it,” said Ron, “you’re in a right state!” 

“I’m tellin’yeh, I’m fine,” said Hagrid, straightening 
up and turning to beam at them all, but wincing. 
“Blimey, it’s good ter see you three again — had good 
summers, did yeh?” 

“Hagrid, you’ve been attacked!” said Ron. 

“Fer the las’ time, it’s nuthin’!” said Hagrid firmly. 

“Would you say it was nothing if one of us turned up 
with a pound of mince instead of a face?” Ron 
demanded. 

“You ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid,” 
said Hermione anxiously. “Some of those cuts look 
nasty.” 

“I’m dealin’ with it, all righ’?” said Hagrid repressively. 



Page | 539Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He walked across to the enormous wooden table that 
stood in the middle of his cabin and twitched aside a 
tea towel that had been lying on it. Underneath was a 
raw, bloody, green-tinged steak slightly larger than 
the average car tire. 

“You’re not going to eat that, are you, Hagrid?” said 
Ron, leaning in for a closer look. “It looks poisonous.” 

“It’s s ’posed ter look like that, it’s dragon meat,” 
Hagrid said. “An’ I didn’ get it ter eat.” 

He picked up the steak and slapped it over the left 
side of his face. Greenish blood trickled down into his 
beard as he gave a soft moan of satisfaction. 

“Tha’s better. It helps with the stingin’, yeh know.” 

“So are you going to tell us what’s happened to you?” 
Harry asked. 

“Can’, Harry. Top secret. More’n me job’s worth ter 
tell yeh that.” 

“Did the giants beat you up, Hagrid?” asked Hermione 
quietly. 

Hagrid’s fingers slipped on the dragon steak, and it 
slid squelchily onto his chest. 

“Giants?” said Hagrid, catching the steak before it 
reached his belt and slapping it back over his face. 
“Who said anythin’ abou’ giants? Who yeh bin talkin’ 
to? Who’s told yeh what I’ve — who’s said I’ve bin — 
eh?” 

“We guessed,” said Hermione apologetically. 



Page | 540Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, yeh did, did yeh?” said Hagrid, fixing her sternly 
with the eye that was not hidden by the steak. 

“It was kind of ... obvious,” said Ron. Harry nodded. 

Hagrid glared at them, then snorted, threw the steak 
onto the table again and strode back to the kettle, 
which was now whistling. 

“Never known kids like you three fer knowin’ more’n 
yeh oughta,” he muttered, splashing boiling water 
into three of his bucket-shaped mugs. “An’ I’m not 
complimentin’ yeh, neither. Nosy, some’d call it. 
Interferin’.” 

But his beard twitched. 

“So you have been to look for giants?” said Harry, 
grinning as he sat down at the table. 

Hagrid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, 
picked up his steak again, and slapped it back over 
his face. 

“Yeah, all righ’,” he grunted, “I have.” 

“And you found them?” said Hermione in a hushed 
voice. 

“Well, they’re not that difficult ter find, ter be honest,” 
said Hagrid. “Pretty big, see.” 

“Where are they?” said Ron. 

“Mountains,” said Hagrid unhelpfully. 

“So why don’t Muggles — ?” 



Page | 541Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“They do,” said Hagrid darkly. “O’ny their deaths are 
always put down ter mountaineerin’ accidents, aren’ 
they?” 

He adjusted the steak a little so that it covered the 
worst of the bruising. 

“Come on, Hagrid, tell us what you’ve been up to!” 
said Ron. “Tell us about being attacked by the giants 
and Harry can tell you about being attacked by the 
dementors — ” 

Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at 
the same time; a large quantity of spit, tea, and 
dragon blood was sprayed over the table as Hagrid 
coughed and spluttered and the steak slid, with a soft 
splat, onto the floor. 

“Whadda yeh mean, attacked by dementors?” growled 
Hagrid. 

“Didn’t you know?” Hermione asked him, wide-eyed. 

“I don’ know anything that’s been happenin’ since I 
left. I was on a secret mission, wasn’ I, didn’ wan’ 
owls followin’ me all over the place — ruddy 
dementors! Yeh’re not serious?” 

“Yeah, I am, they turned up in Little Whinging and 
attacked my cousin and me, and then the Ministry of 
Magic expelled me — ” 

“WHAT?” 

“ — and I had to go to a hearing and everything, but 
tell us about the giants first.” 

“You were expelled?” 



Page | 542Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Tell us about your summer and I’ll tell you about 
mine.” 

Hagrid glared at him through his one open eye. Harry 
looked right back, an expression of innocent 
determination on his face. 

“Oh, all righ’,” Hagrid said in a resigned voice. 

He bent down and tugged the dragon steak out of 
Fang’s mouth. 

“Oh, Hagrid, don’t, it’s not hygien — ” Hermione 
began, but Hagrid had already slapped the meat back 
over his swollen eye. He took another fortifying gulp of 
tea and then said, “Well, we set off righ’ after term 
ended — ” 

“Madame Maxime went with you, then?” Hermione 
interjected. 

“Yeah, tha’s right,” said Hagrid, and a softened 
expression appeared on the few inches of face that 
were not obscured by beard or green steak. “Yeah, it 
was jus’ the pair of us. An’ I’ll tell yeh this, she’s not 
afraid of roughin’ it, Olympe. Yeh know, she’s a fine, 
well-dressed woman, an’ knowin’ where we was goin’ I 
wondered ’ow she’d feel abou’ clamberin’ over 
boulders an’ sleepin’ in caves an’ tha’, bu’ she never 
complained once.” 

“You knew where you were going?” Harry asked. “You 
knew where the giants were?” 

“Well, Dumbledore knew, an’ he told us,” said Hagrid. 

“Are they hidden?” asked Ron. “Is it a secret, where 
they are?” 



Page | 543Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Not really,” said Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. 

“It’s jus’ that mos’ wizards aren’ bothered where they 
are, s’ long as it’s a good long way away. But where 
they are’s very difficult ter get ter, fer humans 
anyway, so we needed Dumbledore’s instructions. 
Took us abou’ a month ter get there — ” 

“A month?” said Ron, as though he had never heard of 
a journey lasting such a ridiculously long time. “But 
— why couldn’t you just grab a Portkey or 
something?” 

There was an odd expression in Hagrid’s unobscured 
eye as he squinted at Ron; it was almost pitying. 

“We’re bein’ watched, Ron,” he said gruffly. 

“What d’you mean?” 

“Yeh don’ understand,” said Hagrid. “The Ministry’s 
keepin’ an eye on Dumbledore an’ anyone they 
reckon’s in league with him, an’ — ” 

“We know about that,” said Harry quickly, keen to 
hear the rest of Hagrid’s story. “We know about the 
Ministry watching Dumbledore — ” 

“So you couldn’t use magic to get there?” asked Ron, 
looking thunderstruck. “You had to act like Muggles 
all the way?” 

“Well, not exactly all the way,” said Hagrid cagily. “We 
jus’ had ter be careful, ’cause Olympe an’ me, we 
stick out a bit — ” 

Ron made a stifled noise somewhere between a snort 
and a sniff and hastily took a gulp of tea. 



Page | 544Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ — so we’re not hard ter follow. We was pretendin’ we 
was goin’ on holiday together, so we got inter France 
an’ we made like we was headin’ fer where Olympe’s 
school is, ’cause we knew we was bein’ tailed by 
someone from the Ministry. We had to go slow, ’cause 
I’m not really s ’posed ter use magic an’ we knew the 
Ministry’d be lookin’ fer a reason ter run us in. But 
we managed ter give the berk tailin’ us the slip round 
abou’ Dee-John — ” 

“Ooooh, Dijon?” said Hermione excitedly. “I’ve been 
there on holiday, did you see — ?” 

She fell silent at the look on Ron’s face. 

“We chanced a bit o’ magic after that, and it wasn’ a 
bad journey. Ran inter a couple o’ mad trolls on the 
Polish border, an’ I had a sligh’ disagreement with a 
vampire in a pub in Minsk, but apart from tha’, 
couldn’t’a bin smoother. 

“An’ then we reached the place, an’ we started 
trekkin’ up through the mountains, lookin’ fer signs 
of ’em . . . 

“We had ter lay off the magic once we got near ’em. 
Partly ’cause they don’ like wizards an’ we didn’ want 
ter put their backs up too soon, and partly ’cause 
Dumbledore had warned us You-Know-Who was 
bound ter be after the giants an’ all. Said it was odds 
on he’d sent a messenger off ter them already. Told us 
ter be very careful of drawin’ attention ter ourselves 
as we got nearer in case there was Death Eaters 
around.” 

Hagrid paused for a long draft of tea. 

“Go on!” said Harry urgently. 



Page | 545Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Found ’em,” said Hagrid baldly. “Went over a ridge 
one nigh’ an’ there they was, spread ou’ underneath 
us. Little fires burnin’ below an’ huge shadows ... It 
was like watchin’ bits o’ the mountain movin’.” 

“How big are they?” asked Ron in a hushed voice. 

“ T3out twenty feet,” said Hagrid casually. “Some o’ 
the bigger ones mighta bin twenty-five.” 

“And how many were there?” asked Harry. 

“I reckon abou’ seventy or eighty,” said Hagrid. 

“Is that all?” said Hermione. 

“Yep,” said Hagrid sadly, “eighty left, an’ there was 
loads once, musta bin a hundred diff’rent tribes from 
all over the world. But they’ve bin dyin’ out fer ages. 
Wizards killed a few, o’ course, but mostly they killed 
each other, an’ now they’re dyin’ out faster than ever. 
They’re not made ter live bunched up together like 
tha’. Dumbledore says it’s our fault, it was the 
wizards who forced ’em to go an’ made ’em live a good 
long way from us an’ they had no choice but ter stick 
together fer their own protection.” 

“So,” said Harry, “you saw them and then what?” 

“Well, we waited till morning, didn’ want ter go 
sneakin’ up on ’em in the dark, fer our own safety,” 
said Hagrid. “ ’Bout three in the mornin’ they fell 
asleep jus’ where they was sittin’. We didn’ dare sleep. 
Fer one thing, we wanted ter make sure none of ’em 
woke up an’ came up where we were, an’ fer another, 
the snorin’ was unbelievable. Caused an avalanche 
near mornin’. 

“Anyway, once it was light we wen’ down ter see ’em.” 

Page | 546Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Just like that?” said Ron, looking awestruck. “You 
just walked right into a giant camp?” 

“Well, Dumbledore’d told us how ter do it,” said 
Hagrid. “Give the Gurg gifts, show some respect, yeh 
know.” 

“Give the what gifts?” asked Harry. 

“Oh, the Gurg — means the chief.” 

“How could you tell which one was the Gurg?” asked 
Ron. 

Hagrid grunted in amusement. 

“No problem,” he said. “He was the biggest, the 
ugliest, an’ the laziest. Sittin’ there waitin’ ter be 
brought food by the others. Dead goats an’ such like. 
Name o’ Karkus. I’d put him at twenty-two, twenty- 
three feet, an’ the weight of a couple o’ bull elephants. 
Skin like rhino hide an’ all.” 

“And you just walked up to him?” said Hermione 
breathlessly. 

“Well ... down ter him, where he was lyin’ in the 
valley. They was in this dip between four pretty high 
mountains, see, beside a mountain lake, an’ Karkus 
was lyin’ by the lake roarin’ at the others ter feed him 
an’ his wife. Olympe an’ I went down the 
mountainside — ” 

“But didn’t they try and kill you when they saw you?” 
asked Ron incredulously. 

“It was def’nitely on some of their minds,” said 
Hagrid, shrugging, “but we did what Dumbledore told 
us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high an’ 

Page | 547Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




keep our eyes on the Gurg an’ ignore the others. So 
tha’s what we did. An’ the rest of ’em went quiet an’ 
watched us pass an’ we got right up ter Karkus’s feet 
an’ we bowed an’ put our present down in front o’ 
him.” 

“What do you give a giant?” asked Ron eagerly. 

“Food?” 

“Nah, he can get food all righ’ fer himself,” said 
Hagrid. “We took him magic. Giants like magic, jus’ 
don’t like us usin’ it against ’em. Anyway, that firs’ 
day we gave him a branch o’ Gubraithian fire.” 

Hermione said “wow” softly, but Harry and Ron both 
frowned in puzzlement. 

“A branch of — ?” 

“Everlasting fire,” said Hermione irritably, “you ought 
to know that by now, Professor Flitwick’s mentioned it 
at least twice in class!” 

“Well anyway,” said Hagrid quickly, intervening before 
Ron could answer back, “Dumbledore’d bewitched 
this branch to burn evermore, which isn’ somethin’ 
any wizard could do, an’ so I lies it down in the snow 
by Karkus’s feet and says, ‘A gift to the Gurg of the 
giants from Albus Dumbledore, who sends his 
respectful greetings.’ ” 

“And what did Karkus say?” asked Harry eagerly. 
“Nothin’,” said Hagrid. “Didn’ speak English.” 

“You’re kidding!” 

“Didn’ matter,” said Hagrid imperturbably, 
“Dumbledore had warned us tha’ migh’ happen. 

Page | 548Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Karkus knew enough to yell fer a couple o’ giants who 
knew our lingo an’ they translated fer us.” 



“And did he like the present?” asked Ron. 

“Oh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood 
what it was,” said Hagrid, turning his dragon steak 
over to press the cooler side to his swollen eye. “Very 
pleased. So then I said, Altars Dumbledore asks the 
Gurg to speak with his messenger when he returns 
tomorrow with another gift.’ ” 

“Why couldn’t you speak to them that day?” asked 
Hermione. 

“Dumbledore wanted us ter take it very slow,” said 
Hagrid. “Let ’em see we kept our promises. We’ll come 
back tomorrow with another present, an’ then we do 
come back with another present — gives a good 
impression, see? An’ gives them time ter test out the 
firs’ present an’ find out it’s a good one, an’ get ’em 
eager fer more. In any case, giants like Karkus — 
overload ’em with information an’ they’ll kill yeh jus’ 
to simplify things. So we bowed outta the way an’ 
went off an’ found ourselves a nice little cave ter 
spend that night in, an’ the followin’ mornin’ we went 
back an’ this time we found Karkus sittin’ up waitin’ 
fer us lookin’ all eager.” 

“And you talked to him?” 

“Oh yeah. Firs’ we presented him with a nice battle 
helmet — goblin-made an’ indestructible, yeh know — 
an’ then we sat down an’ we talked.” 

“What did he say?” 

“Not much,” said Hagrid. “Listened mostly. But there 
were good signs. He’d heard o’ Dumbledore, heard 

Page | 549Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he’d argued against the killin’ of the last giants in 
Britain. Karkus seemed ter be quite int’rested in what 
Dumbledore had ter say. An’ a few o’ the others, 
’specially the ones who had some English, they 
gathered round an’ listened too. We were hopeful 
when we left that day. Promised ter come back next 
day with another present. 

“But that night it all wen’ wrong.” 

“What d’you mean?” said Ron quickly. 

“Well, like I say, they’re not meant ter live together, 
giants,” said Hagrid sadly. “Not in big groups like 
that. They can’ help themselves, they half kill each 
other every few weeks. The men fight each other an’ 
the women fight each other, the remnants of the old 
tribes fight each other, an’ that’s even without 
squabbles over food an’ the best fires an’ sleepin’ 
spots. Yeh’d think, seein’ as how their whole race is 
abou’ finished, they’d lay off each other, but ...” 

Hagrid sighed deeply 

“That night a fight broke out, we saw it from the 
mouth of our cave, lookin’ down on the valley. Went 
on fer hours, yeh wouldn’ believe the noise. An’ when 
the sun came up the snow was scarlet an’ his head 
was lyin’ at the bottom o’ the lake.” 

“Whose head?” gasped Hermione. 

“Karkus’s,” said Hagrid heavily. “There was a new 
Gurg, Golgomath.” He sighed deeply. “Well, we hadn’ 
bargained on a new Gurg two days after we’d made 
friendly contact with the firs’ one, an’ we had a funny 
feelin’ Golgomath wouldn’ be so keen ter listen to us, 
but we had ter try.” 



Page | 550Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“You went to speak to him?” asked Ron incredulously. 
“After you’d watched him rip off another giant’s 
head?” 

“ ’Course we did,” said Hagrid, “we hadn’ gone all that 
way ter give up after two days! We wen’ down with the 
next present we’d meant ter give ter Karkus. 

“I knew it was no go before I’d opened me mouth. He 
was sitting there wearin’ Karkus ’s helmet, leerin’ at 
us as we got nearer. He’s massive, one o’ the biggest 
ones there. Black hair an’ matchin’ teeth an’ a 
necklace o’ bones. Human-lookin’ bones, some of ’em. 
Well, I gave it a go — held out a great roll o’ dragon 
skin — an’ said A gift fer the Gurg of the giants — ’ 
Nex’ thing I knew, I was hangin’ upside down in the 
air by me feet, two of his mates had grabbed me.” 

Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth. 

“How did you get out of that?” asked Harry. 

“Wouldn’ta done if Olympe hadn’ bin there,” said 
Hagrid. “She pulled out her wand an’ did some o’ the 
fastes’ spellwork I’ve ever seen. Ruddy marvelous. Hit 
the two holdin’ me right in the eyes with 
Conjunctivitus Curses an’ they dropped me 
straightaway — bu’ we were in trouble then, ’cause 
we’d used magic against ’em, an’ that’s what giants 
hate abou’ wizards. We had ter leg it an’ we knew 
there was no way we was going ter be able ter march 
inter camp again.” 

“Blimey, Hagrid,” said Ron quietly. 

“So how come it’s taken you so long to get home if you 
were only there for three days?” asked Hermione. 



Page | 551Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“We didn’ leave after three days!” said Hagrid, looking 
outraged. “Dumbledore was relyin’ on us!” 



“But you’ve just said there was no way you could go 
back!” 

“Not by daylight, we couldn’, no. We just had ter 
rethink a bit. Spent a couple o’ days lyin’ low up in 
the cave an’ watchin’. An’ wha’ we saw wasn’ good.” 

“Did he rip off more heads?” asked Hermione, 
sounding squeamish. 

“No,” said Hagrid. “I wish he had.” 

“What d’you mean?” 

“I mean we soon found out he didn’ object ter all 
wizards — just us.” 

“Death Eaters?” said Harry quickly. 

“Yep,” said Hagrid darkly. “Couple of ’em were visitin’ 
him ev’ry day, bringin’ gifts ter the Gurg, an’ he wasn’ 
dangling them upside down.” 

“How d’you know they were Death Eaters?” said Ron. 

“Because I recognized one of ’em,” Hagrid growled. 
“Macnair, remember him? Bloke they sent ter kill 
Buckbeak? Maniac, he is. Likes killin’ as much as 
Golgomath, no wonder they were gettin’ on so well.” 

“So Macnair’s persuaded the giants to join You-Know- 
Who?” said Hermione desperately. 

“Hold yer hippogriffs, I haven’ finished me story yet!” 
said Hagrid indignantly, who, considering he had not 
wanted to tell them anything in the first place, now 

Page | 552Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




seemed to be rather enjoying himself. “Me an’ Olympe 
talked it over an’ we agreed, jus’ ’cause the Gurg 
looked like favorin’ You-Know-Who didn’ mean all of 
’em would. We had ter try an’ persuade some o’ the 
others, the ones who hadn’ wanted Golgomath as 
Gurg.” 

“How could you tell which ones they were?” asked 
Ron. 

“Well, they were the ones bein’ beaten to a pulp, 
weren’ they?” said Hagrid patiently. “The ones with 
any sense were keepin’ outta Golgomath ’s way, hidin’ 
out in caves roun’ the gully jus’ like we were. So we 
decided we’d go pokin’ round the caves by night an’ 
see if we couldn’ persuade a few o’ them.” 

“You went poking around dark caves looking for 
giants?” said Ron with awed respect in his voice. 

“Well, it wasn’ the giants who worried us most,” said 
Hagrid. “We were more concerned abou’ the Death 
Eaters. Dumbledore had told us before we wen’ not 
ter tangle with ’em if we could avoid it, an’ the trouble 
was they knew we was around — ’spect Golgomath 
told him abou’ us. At night when the giants were 
sleepin’ an’ we wanted ter be creepin’ inter the caves, 
Macnair an’ the other one were sneakin’ round the 
mountains lookin’ fer us. I was hard put to stop 
Olympe jumpin’ out at them,” said Hagrid, the 
corners of his mouth lifting his wild beard. “She was 
rarin’ ter attack ’em... she’s somethin’ when she’s 
roused, Olympe... Fiery, yeh know ... ’spect it’s the 
French in her ...” 

Hagrid gazed misty-eyed into the fire. Harry allowed 
him thirty seconds’ reminiscence before clearing his 
throat loudly. 



Page | 553Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“So what happened? Did you ever get near any of the 
other giants?” 

“What? Oh ... oh yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third 
night after Karkus was killed, we crept outta the cave 
we’d bin hidin’ in and headed back down inter the 
gully, keepin’ our eyes skinned fer the Death Eaters. 
Got inside a few o’ the caves, no go — then, in abou’ 
the sixth one, we found three giants hidin’.” 

“Cave must’ve been cramped,” said Ron. 

“Wasn’ room ter swing a kneazle,” said Hagrid. 

“Didn’t they attack you when they saw you?” asked 
Hermione. 

“Probably woulda done if they’d bin in any condition,” 
said Hagrid, “but they was badly hurt, all three o’ 
them. Golgomath’s lot had beaten ’em unconscious; 
they’d woken up an’ crawled inter the nearest shelter 
they could find. Anyway, one o’ them had a bit of 
English an’ ’e translated fer the others, an’ what we 
had ter say didn’ seem ter go down too badly. So we 
kep’ goin’ back, visitin’ the wounded... I reckon we 
had abou’ six or seven o’ them convinced at one 
poin’.” 

“Six or seven?” said Ron eagerly. “Well that’s not bad 
— are they going to come over here and start fighting 
You-Know-Who with us?” 

But Hermione said, “What do you mean ‘at one point,’ 
Hagrid?” 

Hagrid looked at her sadly. 



Page | 554Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Golgomath’s lot raided the caves. The ones tha’ 
survived didn’ wan’ no more ter to do with us after 
that.” 

“So ... so there aren’t any giants coming?” said Ron, 
looking disappointed. 

“Nope,” said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned 
over his steak again and applied the cooler side to his 
face, “but we did wha’ we meant ter do, we gave ’em 
Dumbledore’s message an’ some o’ them heard it an’ I 
’spect some o’ them’ll remember it. Jus’ maybe, them 
that don’ want ter stay around Golgomath’ll move 
outta the mountains, an’ there’s gotta be a chance 
they’ll remember Dumbledore’s friendly to ’em... 

Could be they’ll come ...” 

Snow was filling up the window now. Harry became 
aware that the knees of his robes were soaked 
through; Fang was drooling with his head in Harry’s 
lap. 

“Hagrid?” said Hermione quietly after a while. 

“Mmm?” 

“Did you ... was there any sign of ... did you hear 
anything about your . . . your . . . mother while you were 
there?” 

Hagrid’s unobscured eye rested upon her, and 
Hermione looked rather scared. 

“I’m sorry ... I ... forget it — ” 

“Dead,” Hagrid grunted. “Died years ago. They told 
me.” 



Page | 555Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh ... I’m ... I’m really sorry,” said Hermione in a 
very small voice. 



Hagrid shrugged his massive shoulders. “No need,” he 
said shortly. “Can’ remember her much. Wasn’ a great 
mother.” 

They were silent again. Hermione glanced nervously 
at Harry and Ron, plainly wanting them to speak. 

“But you still haven’t explained how you got in this 
state, Hagrid,” Ron said, gesturing toward Hagrid’s 
bloodstained face. 

“Or why you’re back so late,” said Harry. “Sirius says 
Madame Maxime got back ages ago — ” 

“Who attacked you?” said Ron. 

“I haven’ bin attacked!” said Hagrid emphatically. “I — 



But the rest of his words were drowned in a sudden 
outbreak of rapping on the door. Hermione gasped; 
her mug slipped through her fingers and smashed on 
the floor; Fang yelped. All four of them stared at the 
window beside the doorway. The shadow of somebody 
small and squat rippled across the thin curtain. 

“It’s her\” Ron whispered. 

“Get under here!” Harry said quickly; seizing the 
Invisibility Cloak he whirled it over himself and 
Hermione while Ron tore around the table and dived 
beneath the cloak as well. Huddled together they 
backed away into a corner. Fang was barking madly 
at the door. Hagrid looked thoroughly confused. 

“Hagrid, hide our mugs!” 

Page | 556Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid seized Harry’s and Ron’s mugs and shoved 
them under the cushion in Fang’s basket. Fang was 
now leaping up at the door; Hagrid pushed him out of 
the way with his foot and pulled it open. 

Professor Umbridge was standing in the doorway 
wearing her green tweed cloak and a matching hat 
with earflaps. Lips pursed, she leaned back so as to 
see Hagrid’s face; she barely reached his navel. 

“So,” she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking 
to somebody deaf. “You’re Hagrid, are you?” 

Without waiting for an answer she strolled into the 
room, her bulging eyes rolling in every direction. 

“Get away,” she snapped, waving her handbag at 
Fang, who had bounded up to her and was 
attempting to lick her face. 

“Er — I don’ want ter be rude,” said Hagrid, staring at 
her, “but who the ruddy hell are you?” 

“My name is Dolores Umbridge.” 

Her eyes were sweeping the cabin. Twice they stared 
directly into the corner where Harry stood, 
sandwiched between Ron and Hermione. 

“Dolores Umbridge?” Hagrid said, sounding 
thoroughly confused. “I thought you were one o’ them 
Ministry — don’ you work with Fudge?” 

“I was Senior Undersecretary to the Minister, yes,” 
said Umbridge, now pacing around the cabin, taking 
in every tiny detail within, from the haversack against 
the wall to the abandoned traveling cloak. “I am now 
the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher — ” 



Page | 557Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Tha’s brave of yeh,” said Hagrid, “there’s not many’d 
take tha’ job anymore — ” 

“ — and Hogwarts High Inquisitor,” said Umbridge, 
giving no sign that she had heard him. 

“Wha’s that?” said Hagrid, frowning. 

“Precisely what I was going to ask,” said Umbridge, 
pointing at the broken shards of china on the floor 
that had been Hermione’s mug. 

“Oh,” said Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance 
toward the corner where Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
stood hidden, “oh, tha’ was ... was Fang. He broke a 
mug. So I had ter use this one instead.” 

Hagrid pointed to the mug from which he had been 
drinking, one hand still clamped over the dragon 
steak pressed to his eye. Umbridge stood facing him 
now, taking in every detail of his appearance instead 
of the cabin’s. 

“I heard voices,” she said quietly. 

“I was talkin’ ter Fang,” said Hagrid stoutly. 

“And was he talking back to you?” 

“Well ... in a manner o’ speakin’,” said Hagrid, looking 
uncomfortable. “I sometimes say Fang’s near enough 
human — ” 

“There are three sets of footprints in the snow leading 
from the castle doors to your cabin,” said Umbridge 
sleekly. 

Hermione gasped; Harry clapped a hand over her 
mouth. Luckily, Fang was sniffing loudly around the 

Page | 558Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hem of Professor Umbridge’s robes, and she did not 
appear to have heard. 

“Well, I on’y jus’ got back,” said Hagrid, waving an 
enormous hand at the haversack. “Maybe someone 
came ter call earlier an’ I missed em. 

“There are no footsteps leading away from your cabin 
door.” 

“Well I ... I don’ know why that’d be...” said Hagrid, 
tugging nervously at his beard and again glancing 
toward the corner where Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
stood, as though asking for help. “Erm ...” 

Umbridge wheeled around and strode the length of 
the cabin, looking around carefully. She bent and 
peered under the bed. She opened Hagrid ’s 
cupboards. She passed within two inches of where 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood pressed against the 
wall; Harry actually pulled in his stomach as she 
walked by. After looking carefully inside the 
enormous cauldron Hagrid used for cooking she 
wheeled around again and said, “What has happened 
to you? How did you sustain those injuries?” 

Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his 
face, which in Harry’s opinion was a mistake, because 
the black-and-purple bruising all around his eye was 
now clearly visible, not to mention the large amount 
of fresh and congealed blood on his face. “Oh, I ... had 
a bit of an accident,” he said lamely. 

“What sort of accident?” 

“I-I tripped.” 

“You tripped,” she repeated coolly. 



Page | 559Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, tha’s right. Over ... over a friends broomstick. I 
don’ fly, meself. Well, look at the size o’ me, I don’ 
reckon there’s a broomstick that’d hold me. Friend o’ 
mine breeds Abraxan horses, I dunno if you’ve ever 
seen ’em, big beasts, winged, yeh know, I’ve had a bit 
of a ride on one o’ them an’ it was — ” 

“Where have you been?” asked Umbridge, cutting 
coolly through Hagrid’s babbling. 

“Where ’ve I ... ?” 

“Been, yes,” she said. “Term started more than two 
months ago. Another teacher has had to cover your 
classes. None of your colleagues has been able to give 
me any information as to your whereabouts. You left 
no address. Where have you been?” 

There was a pause in which Hagrid stared at her with 
his newly uncovered eye. Harry could almost hear his 
brain working furiously. 

“I — I’ve been away for me health,” he said. 

“For your health,” said Umbridge. Her eyes traveled 
over Hagrid’s discolored and swollen face; dragon 
blood dripped gently onto his waistcoat in the silence. 
“I see.” 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, “bit o’ — o’ fresh air, yeh know — 



“Yes, as gamekeeper fresh air must be so difficult to 
come by,” said Umbridge sweetly. The small patch of 
Hagrid’s face that was not black or purple flushed. 

“Well — change o’ scene, yeh know — ” 

“Mountain scenery?” said Umbridge swiftly. 

Page | 560Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She knows, Harry thought desperately. 

