detention!” 

He, Ron, and Hermione spent the whole of break 
speculating on what Dumbledore would teach Harry. 
Ron thought it most likely to be spectacular jinxes 
and hexes of the type the Death Eaters would not 
know. Hermione said such things were illegal, and 
thought it much more likely that Dumbledore wanted 
to teach Harry advanced Defensive magic. After 
break, she went off to Arithmancy while Harry and 
Ron returned to the common room, where they 
grudgingly started Snape’s homework. This turned 
out to be so complex that they still had not finished 
Page | 203 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




when Hermione joined them for their after-lunch free 
period (though she considerably speeded up the 
process). They had only just finished when the bell 
rang for the afternoon’s double Potions and they beat 
the familiar path down to the dungeon classroom that 
had, for so long, been Snape’s. 

When they arrived in the corridor they saw that there 
were only a dozen people progressing to N.E.W.T. 
level. Crabbe and Goyle had evidently failed to achieve 
the required O.W.L. grade, but four Slytherins had 
made it through, including Malfoy. Four Ravenclaws 
were there, and one Hufflepuff, Ernie Macmillan, 
whom Harry liked despite his rather pompous 
manner. 

“Harry,” Ernie said portentously, holding out his hand 
as Harry approached, “didn’t get a chance to speak in 
Defense Against the Dark Arts this morning. Good 
lesson, I thought, but Shield Charms are old hat, of 
course, for us old D.A. lags ... And how are you, Ron 
— Hermione?” 

Before they could say more than “fine,” the dungeon 
door opened and Slughorn’s belly preceded him out of 
the door. As they filed into the room, his great walrus 
mustache curved above his beaming mouth, and he 
greeted Harry and Zabini with particular enthusiasm. 

The dungeon was, most unusually, already full of 
vapors and odd smells. Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
sniffed interestedly as they passed large, bubbling 
cauldrons. The four Slytherins took a table together, 
as did the four Ravenclaws. This left Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione to share a table with Ernie. They chose the 
one nearest a gold-colored cauldron that was emitting 
one of the most seductive scents Harry had ever 
inhaled: Somehow it reminded him simultaneously of 
treacle tart, the woody smell of a broomstick handle, 
Page | 204 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




and something flowery he thought he might have 
smelled at the Burrow. He found that he was 
breathing very slowly and deeply and that the potion’s 
fumes seemed to be filling him up like drink. A great 
contentment stole over him; he grinned across at Ron, 
who grinned back lazily. 

“Now then, now then, now then,” said Slughorn, 
whose massive outline was quivering through the 
many shimmering vapors. “Scales out, everyone, and 
potion kits, and don’t forget your copies of Advanced 
Potion-Making. ...” 

“Sir?” said Harry, raising his hand. 

“Harry, m’boy?” 

“I haven’t got a book or scales or anything — nor’s 
Ron — we didn’t realize we’d be able to do the 
N.E.W.T., you see — ” 

“Ah, yes, Professor McGonagall did mention ... not to 
worry, my dear boy, not to worry at all. You can use 
ingredients from the store cupboard today, and I’m 
sure we can lend you some scales, and we’ve got a 
small stock of old books here, they’ll do until you can 
write to Flourish and Blotts. ...” 

Slughorn strode over to a corner cupboard and, after 
a moment’s foraging, emerged with two very battered- 
looking copies of Advanced Potion-Making by Libatius 
Borage, which he gave to Harry and Ron along with 
two sets of tarnished scales. 

“Now then,” said Slughorn, returning to the front of 
the class and inflating his already bulging chest so 
that the buttons on his waistcoat threatened to burst 
off, “I’ve prepared a few potions for you to have a look 
at, just out of interest, you know. These are the kind 
Page | 205 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




of thing you ought to be able to make after completing 
your N.E.W.T.s. You ought to have heard of ’em, even 
if you haven’t made ’em yet. Anyone tell me what this 
one is?” 

He indicated the cauldron nearest the Slytherin table. 
Harry raised himself slightly in his seat and saw what 
looked like plain water boiling away inside it. 

Hermione’s well-practiced hand hit the air before 
anybody else’s; Slughorn pointed at her. 

“It’s Veritaserum, a colorless, odorless potion that 
forces the drinker to tell the truth,” said Hermione. 

“Very good, very good!” said Slughorn happily. “Now,” 
he continued, pointing at the cauldron nearest the 
Ravenclaw table, “this one here is pretty well known. 
... Featured in a few Ministry leaflets lately too ... Who 
can — ?” 

Hermione’s hand was fastest once more. 

“It’s Polyjuice Potion, sir,” she said. 

Harry too had recognized the slow-bubbling, mudlike 
substance in the second cauldron, but did not resent 
Hermione getting the credit for answering the 
question; she, after all, was the one who had 
succeeded in making it, back in their second year. 

“Excellent, excellent! Now, this one here ... yes, my 
dear?” said Slughorn, now looking slightly bemused, 
as Hermione’s hand punched the air again. 

“It’s Amortentia!” 



Page | 206 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It is indeed. It seems almost foolish to ask,” said 
Slughorn, who was looking mightily impressed, “but I 
assume you know what it does?” 

“It’s the most powerful love potion in the world!” said 
Hermione. 

“Quite right! You recognized it, I suppose, by its 
distinctive mother-of-pearl sheen?” 

“And the steam rising in characteristic spirals,” said 
Hermione enthusiastically, “and it’s supposed to 
smell differently to each of us, according to what 
attracts us, and I can smell freshly mown grass and 
new parchment and — ” 

But she turned slightly pink and did not complete the 
sentence. 

“May I ask your name, my dear?” said Slughorn, 
ignoring Hermione’s embarrassment. 

“Hermione Granger, sir.” 

“Granger? Granger? Can you possibly be related to 
Hector Dagworth-Granger, who founded the Most 
Extraordinary Society of Potioneers?” 

“No, I don’t think so, sir. I’m Muggle-born, you see.” 

Harry saw Malfoy lean close to Nott and whisper 
something; both of them sniggered, but Slughorn 
showed no dismay; on the contrary, he beamed and 
looked from Hermione to Harry, who was sitting next 
to her. 

“Oho! ‘One of my best friends is Muggle-born, and 
she’s the best in our yeah’ I’m assuming this is the 
very friend of whom you spoke, Harry?” 

Page | 207 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, sir,” said Harry. 



“Well, well, take twenty well-earned points for 
Gryffindor, Miss Granger,” said Slughorn genially. 

Malfoy looked rather as he had done the time 
Hermione had punched him in the face. Hermione 
turned to Harry with a radiant expression and 
whispered, “Did you really tell him I’m the best in the 
year? Oh, Harry!” 

“Well, what’s so impressive about that?” whispered 
Ron, who for some reason looked annoyed. “You are 
the best in the year — I’d’ve told him so if he’d asked 
me!” 

Hermione smiled but made a “shhing” gesture, so that 
they could hear what Slughorn was saying. Ron 
looked slightly disgruntled. 

“Amortentia doesn’t really create love, of course. It is 
impossible to manufacture or imitate love. No, this 
will simply cause a powerful infatuation or obsession. 
It is probably the most dangerous and powerful 
potion in this room — oh yes,” he said, nodding 
gravely at Malfoy and Nott, both of whom were 
smirking skeptically. “When you have seen as much 
of life as I have, you will not underestimate the power 
of obsessive love. ... 

“And now,” said Slughorn, “it is time for us to start 
work.” 

“Sir, you haven’t told us what’s in this one,” said 
Ernie Macmillan, pointing at a small black cauldron 
standing on Slughorn ’s desk. The potion within was 
splashing about merrily; it was the color of molten 
gold, and large drops were leaping like goldfish above 
the surface, though not a particle had spilled. 

Page | 208 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Oho,” said Slughorn again. Harry was sure that 
Slughorn had not forgotten the potion at all, but had 
waited to be asked for dramatic effect. “Yes. That. 
Well, that one, ladies and gentlemen, is a most 
curious little potion called Felix Felicis. I take it,” he 
turned, smiling, to look at Hermione, who had let out 
an audible gasp, “that you know what Felix Felicis 
does, Miss Granger?” 

“It’s liquid luck,” said Hermione excitedly. “It makes 
you lucky!” 

The whole class seemed to sit up a little straighter. 
Now all Harry could see of Malfoy was the back of his 
sleek blond head, because he was at last giving 
Slughorn his full and undivided attention. 

“Quite right, take another ten points for Gryffindor. 
Yes, it’s a funny little potion, Felix Felicis,” said 
Slughorn. “Desperately tricky to make, and 
disastrous to get wrong. However, if brewed correctly, 
as this has been, you will find that all your endeavors 
tend to succeed ... at least until the effects wear off.” 

“Why don’t people drink it all the time, sir?” said 
Terry Boot eagerly. 

“Because if taken in excess, it causes giddiness, 
recklessness, and dangerous overconfidence,” said 
Slughorn. “Too much of a good thing, you know ... 
highly toxic in large quantities. But taken sparingly, 
and very occasionally ...” 

“Have you ever taken it, sir?” asked Michael Corner 
with great interest. 

“Twice in my life,” said Slughorn. “Once when I was 
twenty-four, once when I was fifty-seven. Two 



Page | 209 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




tablespoonfuls taken with breakfast. Two perfect 
days.” 

He gazed dreamily into the distance. Whether he was 
playacting or not, thought Harry, the effect was good. 

“And that,” said Slughorn, apparently coming back to 
earth, “is what I shall be offering as a prize in this 
lesson.” 

There was silence in which every bubble and gurgle of 
the surrounding potions seemed magnified tenfold. 

“One tiny bottle of Felix Felicis,” said Slughorn, taking 
a minuscule glass bottle with a cork in it out of his 
pocket and showing it to them all. “Enough for twelve 
hours’ luck. From dawn till dusk, you will be lucky in 
everything you attempt. 

“Now, I must give you warning that Felix Felicis is a 
banned substance in organized competitions . . . 
sporting events, for instance, examinations, or 
elections. So the winner is to use it on an ordinary 
day only . . . and watch how that ordinary day becomes 
extraordinary! 

“So,” said Slughorn, suddenly brisk, “how are you to 
win my fabulous prize? Well, by turning to page ten of 
Advanced Potion-Making. We have a little over an hour 
left to us, which should be time for you to make a 
decent attempt at the Draught of Living Death. I know 
it is more complex than anything you have attempted 
before, and I do not expect a perfect potion from 
anybody. The person who does best, however, will win 
little Felix here. Off you go!” 

There was a scraping as everyone drew their 
cauldrons toward them and some loud clunks as 
people began adding weights to their scales, but 

Page | 210 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




nobody spoke. The concentration within the room was 
almost tangible. Harry saw Malfoy riffling feverishly 
through his copy of Advanced Potion-Making. It could 
not have been clearer that Malfoy really wanted that 
lucky day. Harry bent swiftly over the tattered book 
Slughorn had lent him. 

To his annoyance he saw that the previous owner had 
scribbled all over the pages, so that the margins were 
as black as the printed portions. Bending low to 
decipher the ingredients (even here, the previous 
owner had made annotations and crossed things out) 
Harry hurried off toward the store cupboard to find 
what he needed. As he dashed back to his cauldron, 
he saw Malfoy cutting up valerian roots as fast as he 
could. 

Everyone kept glancing around at what the rest of the 
class was doing; this was both an advantage and a 
disadvantage of Potions, that it was hard to keep your 
work private. Within ten minutes, the whole place 
was full of bluish steam. Hermione, of course, seemed 
to have progressed furthest. Her potion already 
resembled the “smooth, black currant-colored liquid” 
mentioned as the ideal halfway stage. 

Having finished chopping his roots, Harry bent low 
over his book again. It was really very irritating, 
having to try and decipher the directions under all the 
stupid scribbles of the previous owner, who for some 
reason had taken issue with the order to cut up the 
sopophorous bean and had written in the alternative 
instruction: 

Crush with flat side of silver dagger, 
releases juice better than cutting. 



Page | 211 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Sir, I think you knew my grandfather, Abraxas 
Malfoy?” 

Harry looked up; Slughorn was just passing the 
Slytherin table. 

“Yes,” said Slughorn, without looking at Malfoy, “I 
was sorry to hear he had died, although of course it 
wasn’t unexpected, dragon pox at his age. ...” 

And he walked away. Harry bent back over his 
cauldron, smirking. He could tell that Malfoy had 
expected to be treated like Harry or Zabini; perhaps 
even hoped for some preferential treatment of the type 
he had learned to expect from Snape. It looked as 
though Malfoy would have to rely on nothing but 
talent to win the bottle of Felix Felicis. 

The sopophorous bean was proving very difficult to 
cut up. Harry turned to Hermione. 

“Can I borrow your silver knife?” 

She nodded impatiently, not taking her eyes off her 
potion, which was still deep purple, though according 
to the book ought to be turning a light shade of lilac 
by now. 

Harry crushed his bean with the flat side of the 
dagger. To his astonishment, it immediately exuded 
so much juice he was amazed the shriveled bean 
could have held it all. Hastily scooping it all into the 
cauldron he saw, to his surprise, that the potion 
immediately turned exactly the shade of lilac 
described by the textbook. 

His annoyance with the previous owner vanishing on 
the spot, Harry now squinted at the next line of 
instructions. According to the book, he had to stir 

Page | 212 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




counterclockwise until the potion turned clear as 
water. According to the addition the previous owner 
had made, however, he ought to add a clockwise stir 
after every seventh counterclockwise stir. Could the 
old owner be right twice? 

Harry stirred counterclockwise, held his breath, and 
stirred once clockwise. The effect was immediate. The 
potion turned palest pink. 

“How are you doing that?” demanded Hermione, who 
was red-faced and whose hair was growing bushier 
and bushier in the fumes from her cauldron; her 
potion was still resolutely purple. 

“Add a clockwise stir — ” 

“No, no, the book says counterclockwise!” she 
snapped. 

Harry shrugged and continued what he was doing. 
Seven stirs counterclockwise, one clockwise, pause ... 
seven stirs counterclockwise, one stir clockwise ... 

Across the table, Ron was cursing fluently under his 
breath; his potion looked like liquid licorice. Harry 
glanced around. As far as he could see, no one else’s 
potion had turned as pale as his. He felt elated, 
something that had certainly never happened before 
in this dungeon. 

“And time’s ... up!” called Slughorn. “Stop stirring, 
please!” 

Slughorn moved slowly among the tables, peering into 
cauldrons. He made no comment, but occasionally 
gave the potions a stir or a sniff. At last he reached 
the table where Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ernie 
were sitting. He smiled ruefully at the tarlike 
Page | 213 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince -J.K. Rowling 




substance in Ron’s cauldron. He passed over Ernie’s 
navy concoction. Hermione’s potion he gave an 
approving nod. Then he saw Harry’s, and a look of 
incredulous delight spread over his face. 

“The clear winner!” he cried to the dungeon. 

“Excellent, excellent, Harry! Good lord, it’s clear 
you’ve inherited your mother’s talent. She was a dab 
hand at Potions, Lily was! Here you are, then, here 
you are — one bottle of Felix Felicis, as promised, and 
use it well!” 

Harry slipped the tiny bottle of golden liquid into his 
inner pocket, feeling an odd combination of delight at 
the furious looks on the Slytherins’ faces and guilt at 
the disappointed expression on Hermione’s. Ron 
looked simply dumbfounded. 

“How did you do that?” he whispered to Harry as they 
left the dungeon. 

“Got lucky, I suppose,” said Harry, because Malfoy 
was within earshot. 

Once they were securely ensconced at the Gryffindor 
table for dinner, however, he felt safe enough to tell 
them. Hermione’s face became stonier with every 
word he uttered. 

“I s’pose you think I cheated?” he finished, aggravated 
by her expression. 

“Well, it wasn’t exactly your own work, was it?” she 
said stiffly. 

“He only followed different instructions to ours,” said 
Ron. “Could’ve been a catastrophe, couldn’t it? But he 
took a risk and it paid off.” He heaved a sigh. 
“Slughorn could’ve handed me that book, but no, I get 

Page | 214 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




the one no one’s ever written on. Puked on, by the 
look of page fifty-two, but — ” 

“Hang on,” said a voice close by Harry’s left ear and 
he caught a sudden waft of that flowery smell he had 
picked up in Slughorn’s dungeon. He looked around 
and saw that Ginny had joined them. “Did I hear 
right? You’ve been taking orders from something 
someone wrote in a book, Harry?” 

She looked alarmed and angry. Harry knew what was 
on her mind at once. 

“It’s nothing,” he said reassuringly, lowering his voice. 
“It’s not like, you know, Riddle’s diary. It’s just an old 
textbook someone’s scribbled on.” 

“But you’re doing what it says?” 

“I just tried a few of the tips written in the margins, 
honestly, Ginny, there’s nothing funny — ” 

“Ginny’s got a point,” said Hermione, perking up at 
once. “We ought to check that there’s nothing odd 
about it. I mean, all these funny instructions, who 
knows?” 

“Hey!” said Harry indignantly, as she pulled his copy 
of Advanced Potion-Making out of his bag and raised 
her wand. 

“ Specialis Revelio\” she said, rapping it smartly on the 
front cover. 

Nothing whatsoever happened. The book simply lay 
there, looking old and dirty and dog-eared. 

“Finished?” said Harry irritably. “Or d’you want to 
wait and see if it does a few backflips?” 

Page | 215 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“It seems all right,” said Hermione, still staring at the 
book suspiciously. “I mean, it really does seem to be 
... just a textbook.” 

“Good. Then I’ll have it back,” said Harry, snatching it 
off the table, but it slipped from his hand and landed 
open on the floor. 

Nobody else was looking. Harry bent low to retrieve 
the book, and as he did so, he saw something 
scribbled along the bottom of the back cover in the 
same small, cramped handwriting as the instructions 
that had won him his bottle of Felix Felicis, now 
safely hidden inside a pair of socks in his trunk 
upstairs. 

This Book is the Property of the Half-Blood Prince. 



Page | 216 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




10 




THE HOUSE OF GAUNT 

For the rest of the week’s Potions lessons Harry 
continued to follow the Half-Blood Prince’s 
instructions wherever they deviated from Libatius 
Borage’s, with the result that by their fourth lesson 
Slughorn was raving about Harry’s abilities, saying 
that he had rarely taught anyone so talented. Neither 
Ron nor Hermione was delighted by this. Although 
Harry had offered to share his book with both of 
them, Ron had more difficulty deciphering the 
handwriting than Harry did, and could not keep 
asking Harry to read aloud or it might look 
suspicious. Hermione, meanwhile, was resolutely 
plowing on with what she called the “official” 
instructions, but becoming increasingly bad-tempered 
as they yielded poorer results than the Prince’s. 

Harry wondered vaguely who the Half-Blood Prince 
had been. Although the amount of homework they 
had been given prevented him from reading the whole 
of his copy of Advanced Potion-Making, he had 
skimmed through it sufficiently to see that there was 

Page | 217 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




barely a page on which the Prince had not made 
additional notes, not all of them concerned with 
potion-making. Here and there were directions for 
what looked like spells that the Prince had made up 
himself. 

“Or herself,” said Hermione irritably, overhearing 
Harry pointing some of these out to Ron in the 
common room on Saturday evening. “It might have 
been a girl. I think the handwriting looks more like a 
girl’s than a boy’s.” 

“The Half-Blood Prince, he was called,” Harry said. 
“How many girls have been Princes?” 

Hermione seemed to have no answer to this. She 
merely scowled and twitched her essay on The 
Principles of Re materialization away from Ron, who 
was trying to read it upside down. 

Harry looked at his watch and hurriedly put the old 
copy of Advanced Potion-Making back into his bag. 

“It’s five to eight, I’d better go, I’ll be late for 
Dumbledore.” 

“Ooooh!” gasped Hermione, looking up at once. “Good 
luck! We’ll wait up, we want to hear what he teaches 
you!” 

“Hope it goes okay,” said Ron, and the pair of them 
watched Harry leave through the portrait hole. 

Harry proceeded through deserted corridors, though 
he had to step hastily behind a statue when Professor 
Trelawney appeared around a corner, muttering to 
herself as she shuffled a pack of dirty-looking playing 
cards, reading them as she walked. 



Page | 218 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Two of spades: conflict,” she murmured, as she 
passed the place where Harry crouched, hidden. 
“Seven of spades: an ill omen. Ten of spades: violence. 
Knave of spades: a dark young man, possibly 
troubled, one who dislikes the questioner — ” 

She stopped dead, right on the other side of Harry’s 
statue. 

“Well, that can’t be right,” she said, annoyed, and 
Harry heard her reshuffling vigorously as she set off 
again, leaving nothing but a whiff of cooking sherry 
behind her. Harry waited until he was quite sure she 
had gone, then hurried off again until he reached the 
spot in the seventh-floor corridor where a single 
gargoyle stood against the wall. 

“Acid Pops,” said Harry, and the gargoyle leapt aside; 
the wall behind it slid apart, and a moving spiral 
stone staircase was revealed, onto which Harry 
stepped, so that he was carried in smooth circles up 
to the door with the brass knocker that led to 
Dumbledore’s office. 

Harry knocked. 

“Come in,” said Dumbledore’s voice. 

“Good evening, sir,” said Harry, walking into the 
headmaster’s office. 

“Ah, good evening, Harry. Sit down,” said 
Dumbledore, smiling. “I hope you’ve had an enjoyable 
first week back at school?” 

“Yes, thanks, sir,” said Harry. 

“You must have been busy, a detention under your 
belt already!” 

Page | 219 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“Er,” began Harry awkwardly, but Dumbledore did 
not look too stern. 

“I have arranged with Professor Snape that you will 
do your detention next Saturday instead.” 

“Right,” said Harry, who had more pressing matters 
on his mind than S nape’s detention, and now looked 
around surreptitiously for some indication of what 
Dumbledore was planning to do with him this 
evening. The circular office looked just as it always 
did; the delicate silver instruments stood on spindle- 
legged tables, puffing smoke and whirring; portraits of 
previous headmasters and headmistresses dozed in 
their frames, and Dumbledore’s magnificent phoenix, 
Fawkes, stood on his perch behind the door, watching 
Harry with bright interest. It did not even look as 
though Dumbledore had cleared a space for dueling 
practice. 

“So, Harry,” said Dumbledore, in a businesslike voice. 
“You have been wondering, I am sure, what I have 
planned for you during these — for want of a better 
word — lessons?” 

“Yes, sir.” 

“Well, I have decided that it is time, now that you 
know what prompted Lord Voldemort to try and kill 
you fifteen years ago, for you to be given certain 
information.” 

There was a pause. 

“You said, at the end of last term, you were going to 
tell me everything,” said Harry. It was hard to keep a 
note of accusation from his voice. “Sir,” he added. 



Page | 220 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




“And so I did,” said Dumbledore placidly. “I told you 
everything I know. From this point forth, we shall be 
leaving the firm foundation of fact and journeying 
together through the murky marshes of memory into 
thickets of wildest guesswork. From here on in, 

Harry, I may be as woefully wrong as Humphrey 
Belcher, who believed the time was ripe for a cheese 
cauldron.” 

“But you think you’re right?” said Harry. 

“Naturally I do, but as I have already proven to you, I 
make mistakes like the next man. In fact, being — 
forgive me — rather cleverer than most men, my 
mistakes tend to be correspondingly huger.” 

“Sir,” said Harry tentatively, “does what you’re going 
to tell me have anything to do with the prophecy? Will 
it help me . . . survive?” 

“It has a very great deal to do with the prophecy,” said 
Dumbledore, as casually as if Harry had asked him 
about the next day’s weather, “and I certainly hope 
that it will help you to survive.” 

Dumbledore got to his feet and walked around the 
desk, past Harry, who turned eagerly in his seat to 
watch Dumbledore bending over the cabinet beside 
the door. When Dumbledore straightened up, he was 
holding a familiar shallow stone basin etched with 
odd markings around its rim. He placed the Pensieve 
on the desk in front of Harry. 

“You look worried.” 

Harry had indeed been eyeing the Pensieve with some 
apprehension. His previous experiences with the odd 
device that stored and revealed thoughts and 
memories, though highly instructive, had also been 

Page | 221 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




uncomfortable. The last time he had disturbed its 
contents, he had seen much more than he would 
have wished. But Dumbledore was smiling. 

“This time, you enter the Pensieve with me ... and, 
even more unusually, with permission.” 

“Where are we going, sir?” 

“For a trip down Bob Ogden’s memory lane,” said 
Dumbledore, pulling from his pocket a crystal bottle 
containing a swirling silvery- white substance. 

“Who was Bob Ogden?” 

“He was employed by the Department of Magical Law 
Enforcement,” said Dumbledore. “He died some time 
ago, but not before I had tracked him down and 
persuaded him to confide these recollections to me. 

We are about to accompany him on a visit he made in 
the course of his duties. If you will stand, Harry ...” 

But Dumbledore was having difficulty pulling out the 
stopper of the crystal bottle: His injured hand seemed 
stiff and painful. 

“Shall — shall I, sir?” 

“No matter, Harry — ” 

Dumbledore pointed his wand at the bottle and the 
cork flew out. 

“Sir — how did you injure your hand?” Harry asked 
again, looking at the blackened fingers with a mixture 
of revulsion and pity. 

“Now is not the moment for that story, Harry. Not yet. 
We have an appointment with Bob Ogden.” 

Page | 222 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore tipped the silvery contents of the bottle 
into the Pensieve, where they swirled and shimmered, 
neither liquid nor gas. 

“After you,” said Dumbledore, gesturing toward the 
bowl. 

Harry bent forward, took a deep breath, and plunged 
his face into the silvery substance. He felt his feet 
leave the office floor; he was falling, falling through 
whirling darkness and then, quite suddenly, he was 
blinking in dazzling sunlight. Before his eyes had 
adjusted, Dumbledore landed beside him. 

They were standing in a country lane bordered by 
high, tangled hedgerows, beneath a summer sky as 
bright and blue as a forget-me-not. Some ten feet in 
front of them stood a short, plump man wearing 
enormously thick glasses that reduced his eyes to 
molelike specks. He was reading a wooden signpost 
that was sticking out of the brambles on the left-hand 
side of the road. Harry knew this must be Ogden; he 
was the only person in sight, and he was also wearing 
the strange assortment of clothes so often chosen by 
inexperienced wizards trying to look like Muggles: in 
this case, a frock coat and spats over a striped one- 
piece bathing costume. Before Harry had time to do 
more than register his bizarre appearance, however, 
Ogden had set off at a brisk walk down the lane. 

Dumbledore and Harry followed. As they passed the 
wooden sign, Harry looked up at its two arms. The 
one pointing back the way they had come read: 

GREAT HANGLETON, 5 MILES. The arm pointing 
after Ogden said LITTLE HANGLETON, 1 MILE. 

They walked a short way with nothing to see but the 
hedgerows, the wide blue sky overhead and the 
swishing, frock-coated figure ahead. Then the lane 

Page | 223 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




curved to the left and fell away, sloping steeply down 
a hillside, so that they had a sudden, unexpected 
view of a whole valley laid out in front of them. Harry 
could see a village, undoubtedly Little Hangleton, 
nestled between two steep hills, its church and 
graveyard clearly visible. Across the valley, set on the 
opposite hillside, was a handsome manor house 
surrounded by a wide expanse of velvety green lawn. 

Ogden had broken into a reluctant trot due to the 
steep downward slope. Dumbledore lengthened his 
stride, and Harry hurried to keep up. He thought 
Little Hangleton must be their final destination and 
wondered, as he had done on the night they had 
found Slughorn, why they had to approach it from 
such a distance. He soon discovered that he was 
mistaken in thinking that they were going to the 
village, however. The lane curved to the right and 
when they rounded the corner, it was to see the very 
edge of Ogden’s frock coat vanishing through a gap in 
the hedge. 

Dumbledore and Harry followed him onto a narrow 
dirt track bordered by higher and wilder hedgerows 
than those they had left behind. The path was 
crooked, rocky, and potholed, sloping downhill like 
the last one, and it seemed to be heading for a patch 
of dark trees a little below them. Sure enough, the 
track soon opened up at the copse, and Dumbledore 
and Harry came to a halt behind Ogden, who had 
stopped and drawn his wand. 

Despite the cloudless sky, the old trees ahead cast 
deep, dark, cool shadows, and it was a few seconds 
before Harry’s eyes discerned the building half-hidden 
amongst the tangle of trunks. It seemed to him a very 
strange location to choose for a house, or else an odd 
decision to leave the trees growing nearby, blocking 
all light and the view of the valley below. He wondered 
Page | 224 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




whether it was inhabited; its walls were mossy and so 
many tiles had fallen off the roof that the rafters were 
visible in places. Nettles grew all around it, their tips 
reaching the windows, which were tiny and thick with 
grime. Just as he had concluded that nobody could 
possibly live there, however, one of the windows was 
thrown open with a clatter, and a thin trickle of steam 
or smoke issued from it, as though somebody was 
cooking. 

Ogden moved forward quietly and, it seemed to Harry, 
rather cautiously. As the dark shadows of the trees 
slid over him, he stopped again, staring at the front 
door, to which somebody had nailed a dead snake. 

Then there was a rustle and a crack, and a man in 
rags dropped from the nearest tree, landing on his 
feet right in front of Ogden, who leapt backward so 
fast he stood on the tails of his frock coat and 
stumbled. 

“ You’re not welcome.” 

The man standing before them had thick hair so 
matted with dirt it could have been any color. Several 
of his teeth were missing. His eyes were small and 
dark and stared in opposite directions. He might have 
looked comical, but he did not; the effect was 
frightening, and Harry could not blame Ogden for 
backing away several more paces before he spoke. 

“Er — good morning. I’m from the Ministry of Magic 



“ You’re not welcome.” 

“Er — I’m sorry — I don’t understand you,” said 
Ogden nervously. 



Page | 225 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 




Harry thought Ogden was being extremely dim; the 
stranger was making himself very clear in Harry’s 
opinion, particularly as he was brandishing a wand in 
one hand and a short and rather bloody knife in the 
other. 

“You understand him, I’m sure, Harry?” said 
Dumbledore quietly. 

“Yes, of course,” said Harry, slightly nonplussed. 

“Why can’t Ogden — ?” 

But as his eyes found the dead snake on the door 
again, he suddenly understood. 

“He’s speaking Parseltongue?” 

“Very good,” said Dumbledore, nodding and smiling. 
