then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry’s eleventh 
birthday. Of course, his birthdays were never exactly 
fun — last year, the Dursleys had given him a coat 
hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon’s old socks. Still, 
you weren’t eleven every day. 

Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was 
also carrying a long, thin package and didn’t answer 
Aunt Petunia when she asked what he’d bought. 

“Found the perfect place!” he said. “Come on! 

Everyone out!” 



Page | 47 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was 
pointing at what looked like a large rock way out at 
sea. Perched on top of the rock was the most 
miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing 
was certain, there was no television in there. 

“Storm forecast for tonight!” said Uncle Vernon 
gleefully, clapping his hands together. “And this 
gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us his boat!” 

A toothless old man came ambling up to them, 
pointing, with a rather wicked grin, at an old rowboat 
bobbing in the iron-gray water below them. 

“I’ve already got us some rations,” said Uncle Vernon, 
“so all aboard!” 

It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain 
crept down their necks and a chilly wind whipped 
their faces. After what seemed like hours they 
reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and 
sliding, led the way to the broken-down house. 

The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of 
seaweed, the wind whistled through the gaps in the 
wooden walls, and the fireplace was damp and empty. 
There were only two rooms. 

Uncle Vernon’s rations turned out to be a bag of chips 
each and four bananas. He tried to start a fire but the 
empty chip bags just smoked and shriveled up. 

“Could do with some of those letters now, eh?” he said 
cheerfully. 

He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought 
nobody stood a chance of reaching them here in a 
storm to deliver mail. Harry privately agreed, though 
the thought didn’t cheer him up at all. 

Page | 48 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




As night fell, the promised storm blew up around 
them. Spray from the high waves splattered the walls 
of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the filthy 
windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in 
the second room and made up a bed for Dudley on 
the moth-eaten sofa. She and Uncle Vernon went off 
to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find 
the softest bit of floor he could and to curl up under 
the thinnest, most ragged blanket. 

The storm raged more and more ferociously as the 
night went on. Harry couldn’t sleep. He shivered and 
turned over, trying to get comfortable, his stomach 
rumbling with hunger. Dudley’s snores were drowned 
by the low rolls of thunder that started near midnight. 
The lighted dial of Dudley’s watch, which was 
dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat wrist, told 
Harry he’d be eleven in ten minutes’ time. He lay and 
watched his birthday tick nearer, wondering if the 
Dursleys would remember at all, wondering where the 
letter writer was now. 

Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak 
outside. He hoped the roof wasn’t going to fall in, 
although he might be warmer if it did. Four minutes 
to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so 
full of letters when they got back that he’d be able to 
steal one somehow. 

Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard 
on the rock like that? And (two minutes to go) what 
was that funny crunching noise? Was the rock 
crumbling into the sea? 

One minute to go and he’d be eleven. Thirty seconds 
... twenty ... ten ... nine — maybe he’d wake Dudley 
up, just to annoy him — three ... two ... one ... 

BOOM. 

Page | 49 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, 
staring at the door. Someone was outside, knocking 
to come in. 



Page | 50 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 






THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS 

BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley jerked awake. 

“Where’s the cannon?” he said stupidly. 

There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernon 
came skidding into the room. He was holding a rifle in 
his hands — now they knew what had been in the 
long, thin package he had brought with them. 

“Who’s there?” he shouted. “I warn you — I’m armed!” 

There was a pause. Then — 

SMASH! 

The door was hit with such force that it swung clean 
off its hinges and with a deafening crash landed flat 
on the floor. 

A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His 
face was almost completely hidden by a long, shaggy 
mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard, but you could 

Page | 51 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



make out his eyes, glinting like black beetles under 
all the hair. 

The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so 
that his head just brushed the ceiling. He bent down, 
picked up the door, and fitted it easily back into its 
frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little. 
He turned to look at them all. 

“Couldn’t make us a cup o’ tea, could yeh? It’s not 
been an easy journey. ...” 

He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen 
with fear. 

“Budge up, yeh great lump,” said the stranger. 

Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, 
who was crouching, terrified, behind Uncle Vernon. 

“An’ here’s Harry!” said the giant. 

Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face 
and saw that the beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile. 

“Las’ time I saw you, you was only a baby,” said the 
giant. “Yeh look a lot like yer dad, but yeh’ve got yer 
mom’s eyes.” 

Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise. 

“I demand that you leave at once, sir!” he said. “You 
are breaking and entering!” 

“Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune,” said the 
giant; he reached over the back of the sofa, jerked the 
gun out of Uncle Vernon’s hands, bent it into a knot 
as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw 
it into a corner of the room. 

Page | 52 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a 
mouse being trodden on. 

“Anyway — Harry,” said the giant, turning his back 
on the Dursleys, “a very happy birthday to yeh. Got 
summat fer yeh here — I mighta sat on it at some 
point, but it’ll taste all right.” 

From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled 
a slightly squashed box. Harry opened it with 
trembling fingers. Inside was a large, sticky chocolate 
cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it in green 
icing. 

Harry looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank 
you, but the words got lost on the way to his mouth, 
and what he said instead was, “Who are you?” 

The giant chuckled. 

“True, I haven’t introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, 
Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts.” 

He held out an enormous hand and shook Harry’s 
whole arm. 

“What about that tea then, eh?” he said, rubbing his 
hands together. “I’d not say no ter summat stronger if 
yeh’ve got it, mind.” 

His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled 
chip bags in it and he snorted. He bent down over the 
fireplace; they couldn’t see what he was doing but 
when he drew back a second later, there was a 
roaring fire there. It filled the whole damp hut with 
flickering light and Harry felt the warmth wash over 
him as though he’d sunk into a hot bath. 



Page | 53 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged 
under his weight, and began taking all sorts of things 
out of the pockets of his coat: a copper kettle, a 
squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, 
several chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber 
liquid that he took a swig from before starting to 
make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and 
smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while 
the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat, 
juicy, slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley 
fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon said sharply, “Don’t 
touch anything he gives you, Dudley.” 

The giant chuckled darkly. 

“Yer great puddin’ of a son don’ need fattenin’ 
anymore, Dursley, don’ worry.” 

He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry 
he had never tasted anything so wonderful, but he 
still couldn’t take his eyes off the giant. Finally, as 
nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said, 
“I’m sorry, but I still don’t really know who you are.” 

The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with 
the back of his hand. 

“Call me Hagrid,” he said, “everyone does. An’ like I 
told yeh, I’m Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts — yeh’ll 
know all about Hogwarts, o’ course.” 

“Er — no,” said Harry. 

Hagrid looked shocked. 

“Sorry,” Harry said quickly. 

“Sorry?” barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the 
Dursleys, who shrank back into the shadows. “It’s 

Page | 54 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




them as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren’t gettin’ 
yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn’t even 
know abou’ Hogwarts, fer cryin’ out loud! Did yeh 
never wonder where yer parents learned it all?” 

“All what?” asked Harry. 

“ALL WHAT?” Hagrid thundered. “Now wait jus’ one 
second!” 

He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill 
the whole hut. The Dursleys were cowering against 
the wall. 

“Do you mean ter tell me,” he growled at the Dursleys, 
“that this boy — this boy! — knows nothin’ abou’ — 
about ANYTHING?” 

Harry thought this was going a bit far. He had been to 
school, after all, and his marks weren’t bad. 

“I know some things,” he said. “I can, you know, do 
math and stuff.” 

But Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, “About 
our world, I mean. Your world. My world. Yer parents’ 
world.” 

“What world?” 

Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode. 
“DURSLEY!” he boomed. 

Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered 
something that sounded like “Mimblewimble.” Hagrid 
stared wildly at Harry. 



Page | 55 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“But yeh must know about yer mom and dad,” he 
said. “I mean, they’re famous. You’re famous.” 

“What? My — my mom and dad weren’t famous, were 
they?” 

“Yeh don’ know ... yeh don’ know ...” Hagrid ran his 
fingers through his hair, fixing Harry with a 
bewildered stare. 

“Yeh don’ know what yeh are?” he said finally. 

Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice. 

“Stop!” he commanded. “Stop right there, sir! I forbid 
you to tell the boy anything!” 

A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have 
quailed under the furious look Hagrid now gave him; 
when Hagrid spoke, his every syllable trembled with 
rage. 

“You never told him? Never told him what was in the 
letter Dumbledore left fer him? I was there! I saw 
Dumbledore leave it, Dursley! An’ you’ve kept it from 
him all these years?” 

“Kept what from me?” said Harry eagerly. 

“STOP! I FORBID YOU!” yelled Uncle Vernon in panic. 

Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror. 

“Ah, go boil yer heads, both of yeh,” said Hagrid. 
“Harry — yer a wizard.” 

There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and 
the whistling wind could be heard. 



Page | 56 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“I’m a what?” gasped Harry. 



“A wizard, o’ course,” said Hagrid, sitting back down 
on the sofa, which groaned and sank even lower, “an’ 
a thumpin’ good’un, I’d say, once yeh’ve been trained 
up a bit. With a mum an’ dad like yours, what else 
would yeh be? An’ I reckon it’s abou’ time yeh read 
yer letter.” 

Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the 
yellowish envelope, addressed in emerald green to Mr. 
H. Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock, The Sea. He 
pulled out the letter and read: 

HOGWARTS SCHOOL 
o/WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY 

Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE 

(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sore., Chf. 

Warlock, Supreme Mugwump, International Confed. of 
Wizards) 

Dear Mr. Potter, 

We are pleased to inform you that you have been 
accepted at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and 
Wizardry. Please find enclosed a list of all necessary 
books and equipment. 

Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no 
later than July 31. 

Yours sincerely, 

Minerva McGonagall, 

Deputy Headmistress 



Page | 57 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Questions exploded inside Harry’s head like fireworks 
and he couldn’t decide which to ask first. After a few 
minutes he stammered, “What does it mean, they 
await my owl?” 

“Gallopin’ Gorgons, that reminds me,” said Hagrid, 
clapping a hand to his forehead with enough force to 
knock over a cart horse, and from yet another pocket 
inside his overcoat he pulled an owl — a real, live, 
rather ruffled-looking owl — a long quill, and a roll of 
parchment. With his tongue between his teeth he 
scribbled a note that Harry could read upside down: 

Dear Professor Dumbledore, 

Given Harry his letter. 

Taking him to buy his things tomorrow. 

Weather’s horrible. Hope you’re well. 

Hagrid 

Hagrid rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which 
clamped it in its beak, went to the door, and threw 
the owl out into the storm. Then he came back and 
sat down as though this was as normal as talking on 
the telephone. 

Harry realized his mouth was open and closed it 
quickly. 

“Where was I?” said Hagrid, but at that moment, 

Uncle Vernon, still ashen-faced but looking very 
angry, moved into the firelight. 

“He’s not going,” he said. 

Hagrid grunted. 

Page | 58 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“I’d like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him,” he 
said. 



“A what?” said Harry, interested. 

“A Muggle,” said Hagrid, “it’s what we call nonmagic 
folk like them. An’ it’s your bad luck you grew up in a 
family o’ the biggest Muggles I ever laid eyes on.” 

“We swore when we took him in we’d put a stop to 
that rubbish,” said Uncle Vernon, “swore we’d stamp 
it out of him! Wizard indeed!” 

“You knew?” said Harry. “You knew I’m a — a 
wizard?” 

“Knew!” shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. “Knew\ Of 
course we knew! How could you not be, my dratted 
sister being what she was? Oh, she got a letter just 
like that and disappeared off to that — that school — 
and came home every vacation with her pockets full 
of frog spawn, turning teacups into rats. I was the 
only one who saw her for what she was — a freak! 

But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this 
and Lily that, they were proud of having a witch in 
the family!” 

She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went 
ranting on. It seemed she had been wanting to say all 
this for years. 

“Then she met that Potter at school and they left and 
got married and had you, and of course I knew you’d 
be just the same, just as strange, just as — as — 
abnormal — and then, if you please, she went and got 
herself blown up and we got landed with you!” 



Page | 59 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had gone very white. As soon as he found his 
voice he said, “Blown up? You told me they died in a 
car crash!” 

“CAR CRASH!” roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily 
that the Dursleys scuttled back to their corner. “How 
could a car crash kill Lily an’ James Potter? It’s an 
outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not knowin’ his own 
story when every kid in our world knows his name!” 

“But why? What happened?” Harry asked urgently. 

The anger faded from Hagrid’s face. He looked 
suddenly anxious. 

“I never expected this,” he said, in a low, worried 
voice. “I had no idea, when Dumbledore told me there 
might be trouble gettin’ hold of yeh, how much yeh 
didn’t know. Ah, Harry, I don’ know if I’m the right 
person ter tell yeh — but someone’s gotta — yeh can’t 
go off ter Hogwarts not knowin’.” 

He threw a dirty look at the Dursleys. 

“Well, it’s best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh — 
mind, I can’t tell yeh everythin’, it’s a great myst’ry, 
parts of it. ...” 

He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, 
and then said, “It begins, I suppose, with — with a 
person called — but it’s incredible yeh don’t know his 
name, everyone in our world knows — ” 

“Who?” 

“Well — I don’ like sayin’ the name if I can help it. No 
one does.” 

“Why not?” 

Page | 60 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Gulpin’ gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared. 
Blimey, this is difficult. See, there was this wizard 
who went ... bad. As bad as you could go. Worse. 
Worse than worse. His name was ...” 

Hagrid gulped, but no words came out. 

“Could you write it down?” Harry suggested. 

“Nah — can’t spell it. All right — Voldemort.” Hagrid 
shuddered. “Don’ make me say it again. Anyway, this 
— this wizard, about twenty years ago now, started 
lookin’ fer followers. Got ’em, too — some were afraid, 
some just wanted a bit o’ his power, ’cause he was 
gettin’ himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry. 
Didn’t know who ter trust, didn’t dare get friendly 
with strange wizards or witches . . . terrible things 
happened. He was takin’ over. ’Course, some stood up 
to him — an’ he killed ’em. Horribly. One o’ the only 
safe places left was Hogwarts. Reckon Dumbledore’s 
the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of. Didn’t dare 
try takin’ the school, not jus’ then, anyway. 

“Now, yer mum an’ dad were as good a witch an’ 
wizard as I ever knew. Head boy an’ girl at Hogwarts 
in their day! Suppose the myst’ry is why You-Know- 
Who never tried to get ’em on his side before . . . 
probably knew they were too close ter Dumbledore ter 
want anythin’ ter do with the Dark Side. 

“Maybe he thought he could persuade ’em ... maybe 
he just wanted ’em outta the way. All anyone knows 
is, he turned up in the village where you was all 
living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a 
year old. He came ter yer house an’ — an’ — ” 

Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted 
handkerchief and blew his nose with a sound like a 
foghorn. 

Page | 61 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Sorry,” he said. “But it’s that sad — knew yer mum 
an’ dad, an’ nicer people yeh couldn’t find — anyway 



“You-Know-Who killed ’em. An’ then — an’ this is the 
real myst’ry of the thing — he tried to kill you, too. 
Wanted ter make a clean job of it, I suppose, or 
maybe he just liked killin’ by then. But he couldn’t do 
it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer 
forehead? That was no ordinary cut. That’s what yeh 
get when a powerful, evil curse touches yeh — took 
care of yer mum an’ dad an’ yer house, even — but it 
didn’t work on you, an’ that’s why yer famous, Harry. 
No one ever lived after he decided ter kill ’em, no one 
except you, an’ he’d killed some o’ the best witches 
an’ wizards of the age — the McKinnons, the Bones, 
the Prewetts — an’ you was only a baby, an’ you 
lived.” 

Something very painful was going on in Harry’s mind. 
As Hagrid’s story came to a close, he saw again the 
blinding flash of green light, more clearly than he had 
ever remembered it before — and he remembered 
something else, for the first time in his life: a high, 
cold, cruel laugh. 

Hagrid was watching him sadly. 

“Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on 
Dumbledore’s orders. Brought yeh ter this lot ...” 

“Load of old tosh,” said Uncle Vernon. Harry jumped; 
he had almost forgotten that the Dursleys were there. 
Uncle Vernon certainly seemed to have got back his 
courage. He was glaring at Hagrid and his fists were 
clenched. 

“Now, you listen here, boy,” he snarled, “I accept 
there’s something strange about you, probably 

Page | 62 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




nothing a good beating wouldn’t have cured — and as 
for all this about your parents, well, they were 
weirdos, no denying it, and the world’s better off 
without them in my opinion — asked for all they got, 
getting mixed up with these wizarding types — just 
what I expected, always knew they’d come to a sticky 
end — ” 

But at that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and 
drew a battered pink umbrella from inside his coat. 
Pointing this at Uncle Vernon like a sword, he said, 
“I’m warning you, Dursley — I’m warning you — one 
more word ...” 

In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella 
by a bearded giant, Uncle Vernon’s courage failed 
again; he flattened himself against the wall and fell 
silent. 

“That’s better,” said Hagrid, breathing heavily and 
sitting back down on the sofa, which this time sagged 
right down to the floor. 

Harry, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, 
hundreds of them. 

“But what happened to Vol-, sorry — I mean, You- 
Know-Who?” 

“Good question, Harry. Disappeared. Vanished. Same 
night he tried ter kill you. Makes yeh even more 
famous. That’s the biggest myst’ry, see ... he was 
gettin’ more an’ more powerful — why’d he go? 

“Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno 
if he had enough human left in him to die. Some say 
he’s still out there, bidin’ his time, like, but I don’ 
believe it. People who was on his side came back ter 



Page | 63 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




ours. Some of ’em came outta kinda trances. Don’ 
reckon they could’ve done if he was cornin’ back. 

“Most of us reckon he’s still out there somewhere but 
lost his powers. Too weak to carry on. ’Cause 
somethin’ about you finished him, Harry. There was 
somethin’ goin’ on that night he hadn’t counted on — 
/ dunno what it was, no one does — but somethin’ 
about you stumped him, all right.” 

Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect 
blazing in his eyes, but Harry, instead of feeling 
pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had been a 
horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How could he 
possibly be? He’d spent his life being clouted by 
Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle 
Vernon; if he was really a wizard, why hadn’t they 
been turned into warty toads every time they’d tried 
to lock him in his cupboard? If he’d once defeated the 
greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had 
always been able to kick him around like a football? 

“Hagrid,” he said quietly, “I think you must have 
made a mistake. I don’t think I can be a wizard.” 

To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled. 

“Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when 
you was scared or angry?” 

Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think 
about it . . . every odd thing that had ever made his 
aunt and uncle furious with him had happened when 
he, Harry, had been upset or angry ... chased by 
Dudley’s gang, he had somehow found himself out of 
their reach . . . dreading going to school with that 
ridiculous haircut, he’d managed to make it grow 
back . . . and the very last time Dudley had hit him, 



Page | 64 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




hadn’t he got his revenge, without even realizing he 
was doing it? Hadn’t he set a boa constrictor on him? 



Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that 
Hagrid was positively beaming at him. 

“See?” said Hagrid. “Harry Potter, not a wizard — you 
wait, you’ll be right famous at Hogwarts.” 

But Uncle Vernon wasn’t going to give in without a 
fight. 

“Haven’t I told you he’s not going?” he hissed. “He’s 
going to Stonewall High and he’ll be grateful for it. I’ve 
read those letters and he needs all sorts of rubbish — 
spell books and wands and — ” 

“If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop 
him,” growled Hagrid. “Stop Lily an’ James Potter’s 
son goin’ ter Hogwarts! Yer mad. His name’s been 
down ever since he was born. He’s off ter the finest 
school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven 
years there and he won’t know himself. He’ll be with 
youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an’ he’ll be 
under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had, 
Albus Dumbled — ” 

“I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD 
FOOL TO TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!” yelled Uncle 
Vernon. 

But he had finally gone too far. Hagrid seized his 
umbrella and whirled it over his head, “NEVER — ” he 
thundered, “— INSULT — ALBUS — DUMBLEDORE 
— IN — FRONT — OF — ME!” 

He brought the umbrella swishing down through the 
air to point at Dudley — there was a flash of violet 
light, a sound like a firecracker, a sharp squeal, and 

Page | 65 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




the next second, Dudley was dancing on the spot with 
his hands clasped over his fat bottom, howling in 
pain. When he turned his back on them, Harry saw a 
curly pig’s tail poking through a hole in his trousers. 

Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and 
Dudley into the other room, he cast one last terrified 
look at Hagrid and slammed the door behind them. 

Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his 
beard. 

“Shouldn’ta lost me temper,” he said ruefully, “but it 
didn’t work anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, 
but I suppose he was so much like a pig anyway there 
wasn’t much left ter do.” 

He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy 
eyebrows. 

“Be grateful if yeh didn’t mention that ter anyone at 
Hogwarts,” he said. “I’m — er — not supposed ter do 
magic, strictly speakin’. I was allowed ter do a bit ter 
follow yeh an’ get yer letters to yeh an’ stuff — one o’ 
the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job — ” 

“Why aren’t you supposed to do magic?” asked Harry. 

“Oh, well — I was at Hogwarts meself but I — er — 
got expelled, ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year. 
They snapped me wand in half an’ everything. But 
Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great 
man, Dumbledore.” 

“Why were you expelled?” 

“It’s gettin’ late and we’ve got lots ter do tomorrow,” 
said Hagrid loudly. “Gotta get up ter town, get all yer 
books an’ that.” 

Page | 66 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




He took off his thick black coat and threw it to Harry. 



“You can kip under that,” he said. “Don’ mind if it 
wriggles a bit, I think I still got a couple o’ dormice in 
one o’ the pockets.” 



Page | 67 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 





DIAGON ALLY 

Harry woke early the next morning. Although he 
could tell it was daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight. 

“It was a dream,” he told himself firmly. “I dreamed a 
giant called Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a 
school for wizards. When I open my eyes I’ll be at 
home in my cupboard.” 

There was suddenly a loud tapping noise. 

And there’s Aunt Petunia knocking on the door, Harry 
thought, his heart sinking. But he still didn’t open his 
eyes. It had been such a good dream. 

Tap. Tap. Tap. 

“All right,” Harry mumbled, “I’m getting up.” 

He sat up and Hagrid ’s heavy coat fell off him. The 
hut was full of sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid 
himself was asleep on the collapsed sofa, and there 



Page | 68 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 



was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a 
newspaper held in its beak. 

Harry scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as 
though a large balloon was swelling inside him. He 
went straight to the window and jerked it open. The 
owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of 
Hagrid, who didn’t wake up. The owl then fluttered 
onto the floor and began to attack Hagrid ’s coat. 

“Don’t do that.” 

Harry tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it 
snapped its beak fiercely at him and carried on 
savaging the coat. 

“Hagrid!” said Harry loudly. “There’s an owl — ” 

“Pay him,” Hagrid grunted into the sofa. 

“What?” 

“He wants payin’ fer deliverin’ the paper. Look in the 
pockets.” 

Hagrid ’s coat seemed to be made of nothing but 
pockets — bunches of keys, slug pellets, balls of 
string, peppermint humbugs, teabags ... finally, Harry 
pulled out a handful of strange-looking coins. 

“Give him five Knuts,” said Hagrid sleepily. 

“Knuts?” 

“The little bronze ones.” 

Harry counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl 
held out his leg so Harry could put the money into a 



Page | 69 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




small leather pouch tied to it. Then he flew off 
through the open window. 

Hagrid yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched. 

“Best be off, Harry, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter 
London an’ buy all yer stuff fer school.” 

Harry was turning over the wizard coins and looking 
at them. He had just thought of something that made 
him feel as though the happy balloon inside him had 
got a puncture. 

“Urn — Hagrid?” 

“Mm?” said Hagrid, who was pulling on his huge 
boots. 

“I haven’t got any money — and you heard Uncle 
Vernon last night ... he won’t pay for me to go and 
learn magic.” 

“Don’t worry about that,” said Hagrid, standing up 
and scratching his head. “D’yeh think yer parents 
didn’t leave yeh anything?” 

“But if their house was destroyed — ” 

“They didn’ keep their gold in the house, boy! Nah, 
first stop fer us is Gringotts. Wizards’ bank. Have a 
sausage, they’re not bad cold — an’ I wouldn’ say no 
teh a bit o’ yer birthday cake, neither.” 

“Wizards have banks?” 

“Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins.” 

Harry dropped the bit of sausage he was holding. 



Page | 70 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling 




“Goblins?” 



“Yeah — so yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it, I’ll tell yeh 
that. Never mess with goblins, Harry. Gringotts is the 
safest place in the world fer anything yeh want ter 
keep safe — ’cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o’ 
fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway Fer Dumbledore. 
Hogwarts business.” Hagrid drew himself up proudly. 
“He usually gets me ter do important stuff fer him. 
Fetchin’ you — gettin’ things from Gringotts — knows 
he can trust me, see. 

“Got everythin’? Come on, then.” 

Harry followed Hagrid out onto the rock. The sky was 
quite clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight. 
The boat Uncle Vernon had hired was still there, with 
a lot of water in the bottom after the storm. 

“How did you get here?” Harry asked, looking around 
