
“Sirius?” Harry spoke again, but much more quietly 
now that he was nearer. 

He had the strangest feeling that there was someone 
standing right behind the veil on the other side of the 
archway. Gripping his wand very tightly, he edged 
around the dais, but there was nobody there. All that 
could be seen was the other side of the tattered black 
veil. 

“Let’s go,” called Hermione from halfway up the stone 
steps. “This isn’t right, Harry, come on, let’s go...” 

She sounded scared, much more scared than she had 
in the room where the brains swam, yet Harry 
thought the archway had a kind of beauty about it, 
old though it was. The gently rippling veil intrigued 



Page | 987Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




him; he felt a very strong inclination to climb up on 
the dais and walk through it. 

“Harry, let’s go, okay?” said Hermione more forcefully. 

“Okay,” he said, but he did not move. He had just 
heard something. There were faint whispering, 
murmuring noises coming from the other side of the 
veil. 

“What are you saying?” he said very loudly, so that 
the words echoed all around the surrounding stone 
benches. 

“Nobody’s talking, Harry!” said Hermione, now moving 
over to him. 

“Someone’s whispering behind there,” he said, moving 
out of her reach and continuing to frown at the veil. 

“Is that you, Ron?” 

“I’m here, mate,” said Ron, appearing around the side 
of the archway. 

“Can’t anyone else hear it?” Harry demanded, for the 
whispering and murmuring was becoming louder; 
without really meaning to put it there, he found his 
foot was on the dais. 

“I can hear them too,” breathed Luna, joining them 
around the side of the archway and gazing at the 
swaying veil. “There are people in there\” 

“What do you mean, ‘in there’?” demanded Hermione, 
jumping down from the bottom step and sounding 
much angrier than the occasion warranted. “There 
isn’t any ‘in there,’ it’s just an archway, there’s no 
room for anybody to be there — Harry, stop it, come 
away — ” 

Page | 988Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She grabbed his arm and pulled, but he resisted. 

“Harry, we are supposed to be here for Sirius!” she 
said in a high-pitched, strained voice. 

“Sirius,” Harry repeated, still gazing, mesmerized, at 
the continuously swaying veil. “Yeah ...” 

And then something slid back into place in his brain: 
Sirius, captured, bound, and tortured, and he was 
staring at this archway. . . 

He took several paces back from the dais and 
wrenched his eyes from the veil. 

“Let’s go,” he said. 

“That’s what I’ve been trying to — well, come on, 
then!” said Hermione, and she led the way back 
around the dais. On the other side, Ginny and Neville 
were staring, apparently entranced, at the veil too. 
Without speaking, Hermione took hold of Ginny’s 
arm, Ron Neville’s, and they marched them firmly 
back to the lowest stone bench and clambered all the 
way back up to the door. 

“What d’you reckon that arch was?” Harry asked 
Hermione as they regained the dark circular room. 

“I don’t know, but whatever it was, it was dangerous,” 
she said firmly, again inscribing a fiery cross upon 
the door. 

Once more the wall spun and became still again. 
Harry approached a door at random and pushed. It 
did not move. 

“What’s wrong?” said Hermione. 



Page | 989Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s ... locked ...” said Harry, throwing his weight at 
the door, but it did not budge. 



“This is it, then, isn’t it?” said Ron excitedly, joining 
Harry in the attempt to force the door open. “Bound 
to be!” 

“Get out of the way!” said Hermione sharply. She 
pointed her wand at the place where a lock would 
have been on an ordinary door and said, “Alohomora\” 

Nothing happened. 

“Sirius’s knife!” said Harry, and he pulled it out from 
inside his robes and slid it into the crack between the 
door and the wall. The others all watched eagerly as 
he ran it from top to bottom, withdrew it, and then 
flung his shoulder again at the door. It remained as 
firmly shut as ever. What was more, when Harry 
looked down at the knife, he saw that the blade had 
melted. 

“Right, we’re leaving that room,” said Hermione 
decisively. 

“But what if that’s the one?” said Ron, staring at it 
with a mixture of apprehension and longing. 

“It can’t be, Harry could get through all the doors in 
his dream,” said Hermione, marking the door with 
another fiery cross as Harry replaced the now-useless 
handle of Sirius’s knife in his pocket. 

“You know what could be in there?” said Luna 
eagerly, as the wall started to spin yet again. 

“Something blibbering, no doubt,” said Hermione 
under her breath, and Neville gave a nervous little 
laugh. 

Page | 990Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The wall slid back to a halt and Harry, with a feeling 
of increasing desperation, pushed the next door open. 

“This is it!” 

He knew it at once by the beautiful, dancing, 
diamond-sparkling light. As Harry’s eyes became 
more accustomed to the brilliant glare he saw clocks 
gleaming from every surface, large and small, 
grandfather and carriage, hanging in spaces between 
the bookcases or standing on desks ranging the 
length of the room, so that a busy, relentless ticking 
filled the place like thousands of minuscule, 
marching footsteps. The source of the dancing, 
diamond-bright light was a towering crystal bell jar 
that stood at the far end of the room. 

“This way!” 

Harry’s heart was pumping frantically now that he 
knew they were on the right track. He led the way 
forward down the narrow space between the lines of 
the desks, heading, as he had done in his dream, for 
the source of the light, the crystal bell jar quite as tall 
as he was that stood on a desk and appeared to be 
full of a billowing, glittering wind. 

“Oh look).” said Ginny, as they drew nearer, pointing 
at the very heart of the bell jar. 

Drifting along in the sparkling current inside was a 
tiny, jewel-bright egg. As it rose in the jar it cracked 
open and a hummingbird emerged, which was carried 
to the very top of the jar, but as it fell on the draft, its 
feathers became bedraggled and damp again, and by 
the time it had been borne back to the bottom of the 
jar it had been enclosed once more in its egg. 



Page | 991Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Keep going!” said Harry sharply, because Ginny 
showed signs of wanting to stop and watch the egg’s 
progress back into a bird. 

“You dawdled enough by that old arch!” she said 
crossly, but followed him past the bell jar to the only 
door behind it. 

“This is it,” Harry said again, and his heart was now 
pumping so hard and fast he felt it must interfere 
with his speech. “It’s through here — ” 

He glanced around at them all. They had their wands 
out and looked suddenly serious and anxious. He 
looked back at the door and pushed. It swung open. 

They were there, they had found the place: high as a 
church and full of nothing but towering shelves 
covered in small, dusty, glass orbs. They glimmered 
dully in the light issuing from more candle brackets 
set at intervals along the shelves. Like those in the 
circular room behind them, their flames were burning 
blue. The room was very cold. 

Harry edged forward and peered down one of the 
shadowy aisles between two rows of shelves. He could 
not hear anything nor see the slightest sign of 
movement. 

“You said it was row ninety-seven,” whispered 
Hermione. 

“Yeah,” breathed Harry, looking up at the end of the 
closest row. Beneath the branch of blue-glowing 
candles protruding from it glimmered the silver figure 
53 . 

“We need to go right, I think,” whispered Hermione, 
squinting to the next row. “Yes ... that’s fifty-four...” 

Page | 992Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Keep your wands out,” Harry said softly. 

They crept forward, staring behind them as they went 
on down the long alleys of shelves, the farther ends of 
which were in near total darkness. Tiny, yellowing 
labels had been stuck beneath each glass orb on the 
shelf. Some of them had a weird, liquid glow; others 
were as dull and dark within as blown lightbulbs. 

They passed row eighty-four ... eighty-five ... Harry 
was listening hard for the slightest sound of 
movement, but Sirius might be gagged now, or else 
unconscious ... or, said an unbidden voice inside his 
head, he might already be dead... 

I’d have felt it, he told himself, his heart now 
hammering against his Adam’s apple. I’d already 
know... 

“Ninety-seven!” whispered Hermione. 

They stood grouped around the end of the row, gazing 
down the alley beside it. There was nobody there. 

“He’s right down at the end,” said Harry, whose 
mouth had become slightly dry. “You can’t see 
properly from here...” 

And he led them forward, between the towering rows 
of glass balls, some of which glowed softly as they 
passed... 

“He should be near here,” whispered Harry, convinced 
that every step was going to bring the ragged form of 
Sirius into view upon the darkened floor. “Anywhere 
here ... really close ...” 

“Harry?” said Hermione tentatively, but he did not 
want to respond. His mouth was very dry now. 

Page | 993Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Somewhere about ... here ...” he said. 



They had reached the end of the row and emerged 
into more dim candlelight. There was nobody there at 
all. All was echoing, dusty silence. 

“He might be ...” Harry whispered hoarsely, peering 
down the alley next door. “Or maybe ...” He hurried to 
look down the one beyond that. 

“Harry?” said Hermione again. 

“What?” he snarled. 

“I ... I don’t think Sirius is here.” 

Nobody spoke. Harry did not want to look at any of 
them. He felt sick. He did not understand why Sirius 
was not here. He had to be here. This was where he, 
Harry, had seen him... 

He ran up the space at the end of the rows, staring 
down them. Empty aisle after empty aisle flickered 
past. He ran the other way, back past his staring 
companions. There was no sign of Sirius anywhere, 
nor any hint of a struggle. 

“Harry?” Ron called. 

“What?” 

He did not want to hear what Ron had to say, did not 
want to hear Ron tell him he had been stupid, or 
suggest that they ought to go back to Hogwarts. But 
the heat was rising in his face and he felt as though 
he would like to skulk down here in the darkness for 
a long while before facing the brightness of the Atrium 
above and the others’ accusing stares... 



Page | 994Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Have you seen this?” said Ron. 



“What?” said Harry, but eagerly this time — it had to 
be a sign that Sirius had been there, a clue — he 
strode back to where they were all standing, a little 
way down row ninety-seven, but found nothing except 
Ron staring at one of the dusty glass spheres on the 
shelves. 

“What?” Harry repeated glumly. 

“It’s — it’s got your name on,” said Ron. 

Harry moved a little closer. Ron was pointing at one of 
the small glass spheres that glowed with a dull inner 
light, though it was very dusty and appeared not to 
have been touched for many years. 

“My name?” said Harry blankly. 

He stepped forward. Not as tall as Ron, he had to 
crane his neck to read the yellowish label affixed to 
the shelf right beneath the dusty glass ball. In spidery 
writing was written a date of some sixteen years 
previously, and below that: 

S.P.T. to A.P.W.B.D. 

Dark Lord 

and (?) Harry Potter 

Harry stared at it. 

“What is it?” Ron asked, sounding unnerved. “What’s 
your name doing down here?” 

He glanced along at the other labels on that stretch of 
shelf. 

Page | 995Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm not here,” he said, sounding perplexed. “None of 
the rest of us are here...” 

“Harry, I don’t think you should touch it,” said 
Hermione sharply, as he stretched out his hand. 

“Why not?” he said. “It’s something to do with me, 
isn’t it?” 

“Don’t, Harry,” said Neville suddenly. Harry looked 
around at him. Neville’s round face was shining 
slightly with sweat. He looked as though he could not 
take much more suspense. 

“It’s got my name on,” said Harry. 

And feeling slightly reckless, he closed his fingers 
around the dusty ball’s surface. He had expected it to 
feel cold, but it did not. On the contrary, it felt as 
though it had been lying in the sun for hours, as 
though the glow of light within was warming it. 
Expecting, even hoping, that something dramatic was 
going to happen, something exciting that might make 
their long and dangerous journey worthwhile after all, 
he lifted the glass ball down from its shelf and stared 
at it. 

Nothing whatsoever happened. The others moved in 
closer around Harry, gazing at the orb as he brushed 
it free of the clogging dust. 

And then, from right behind them, a drawling voice 
said, “Very good, Potter. Now turn around, nice and 
slowly, and give that to me.” 



Page | 996Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




35 




BEYOND THE VEIL 

Black shapes were emerging out of thin air all around 
them, blocking their way left and right; eyes glinted 
through slits in hoods, a dozen lit wand tips were 
pointing directly at their hearts. Ginny gave a gasp of 
horror. 

“To me, Potter,” repeated the drawling voice of Lucius 
Malfoy as he held out his hand, palm up. 

Harry’s insides plummeted sickeningly. They were 
trapped and outnumbered two to one. 

“To me,” said Malfoy yet again. 

“Where’s Sirius?” Harry said. 

Several of the Death Eaters laughed. A harsh female 
voice from the midst of the shadowy figures to Harry’s 
left said triumphantly, “The Dark Lord always 
knows!” 



Page | 997Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



“Always,” echoed Malfoy softly. “Now, give me the 
prophecy, Potter.” 



“I want to know where Sirius is!” 

“I want to know where Sirius is!” mimicked the woman 
to his left. 

She and her fellow Death Eaters had closed in so that 
they were mere feet away from Harry and the others, 
the light from their wands dazzling Harry’s eyes. 

“You’ve got him,” said Harry, ignoring the rising panic 
in his chest, the dread he had been fighting since 
they had first entered the ninety-seventh row. “He’s 
here. I know he is.” 

“The little baby woke up fwightened and fort what it 
dweamed was twoo,” said the woman in a horrible, 
mock-baby voice. Harry felt Ron stir beside him. 

“Don’t do anything,” he muttered. “Not yet — ” 

The woman who had mimicked him let out a raucous 
scream of laughter. 

“You hear him? You hear him? Giving instructions to 
the other children as though he thinks of fighting us!” 

“Oh, you don’t know Potter as I do, Bellatrix,” said 
Malfoy softly. “He has a great weakness for heroics; 
the Dark Lord understands this about him. Now give 
me the prophecy, Potter.” 

“I know Sirius is here,” said Harry, though panic was 
causing his chest to constrict and he felt as though 
he could not breathe properly. “I know you’ve got 
him!” 

Page | 998Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




More of the Death Eaters laughed, though the woman 
still laughed loudest of all. 

“It’s time you learned the difference between life and 
dreams, Potter,” said Malfoy. “Now give me the 
prophecy, or we start using wands.” 

“Go on, then,” said Harry, raising his own wand to 
chest height. As he did so, the five wands of Ron, 
Hermione, Neville, Ginny, and Luna rose on either 
side of him. The knot in Harry’s stomach tightened. If 
Sirius really was not here, he had led his friends to 
their deaths for no reason at all... 

But the Death Eaters did not strike. 

“Hand over the prophecy and no one need get hurt,” 
said Malfoy coolly. 

It was Harry’s turn to laugh. 

“Yeah, right!” he said. “I give you this — prophecy, is 
it? And you’ll just let us skip off home, will you?” 

The words were hardly out of his mouth when the 
female Death Eater shrieked, “Accio Proph — ” 

Harry was just ready for her. He shouted “Protego\” 
before she had finished her spell, and though the 
glass sphere slipped to the tips of his fingers he 
managed to cling on to it. 

“Oh, he knows how to play, little bitty baby Potter,” 
she said, her mad eyes staring through the slits in 
her hood. “Very well, then — ” 

“I TOLD YOU, NO!” Lucius Malfoy roared at the 
woman. “If you smash it — !” 



Page | 999Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s mind was racing. The Death Eaters wanted 
this dusty spun-glass sphere. He had no interest in it. 
He just wanted to get them all out of this alive, make 
sure that none of his friends paid a terrible price for 
his stupidity ... 

The woman stepped forward, away from her fellows, 
and pulled off her hood. Azkaban had hollowed 
Bellatrix Lestrange’s face, making it gaunt and skull- 
like, but it was alive with a feverish, fanatical glow. 

“You need more persuasion?” she said, her chest 
rising and falling rapidly. “Very well — take the 
smallest one,” she ordered the Death Eaters beside 
her. “Let him watch while we torture the little girl. I’ll 
do it.” 

Harry felt the others close in around Ginny. He 
stepped sideways so that he was right in front of her, 
the prophecy held up to his chest. 

“You’ll have to smash this if you want to attack any of 
us,” he told Bellatrix. “I don’t think your boss will be 
too pleased if you come back without it, will he?” 

She did not move; she merely stared at him, the tip of 
her tongue moistening her thin mouth. 

“So,” said Harry, “what kind of prophecy are we 
talking about anyway?” 

He could not think what to do but to keep talking. 
Neville’s arm was pressed against his, and he could 
feel him shaking. He could feel one of the other’s 
quickened breath on the back of his head. He was 
hoping they were all thinking hard about ways to get 
out of this, because his mind was blank. 



Page | lOOOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What kind of prophecy?” repeated Bellatrix, the grin 
fading from her face. “You jest, Harry Potter.” 



“Nope, not jesting,” said Harry, his eyes flicking from 
Death Eater to Death Eater, looking for a weak link, a 
space through which they could escape. “How come 
Voldemort wants it?” 

Several of the Death Eaters let out low hisses. 

“You dare speak his name?” whispered Bellatrix. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, maintaining his tight grip on the 
glass ball, expecting another attempt to bewitch it 
from him. “Yeah, IVe got no problem saying Vol — ” 

“Shut your mouth!” Bellatrix shrieked. “You dare 
speak his name with your unworthy lips, you dare 
besmirch it with your half-blood’s tongue, you dare — 



“Did you know he’s a half-blood too?” said Harry 
recklessly. Hermione gave a little moan in his ear. 
“Voldemort? Yeah, his mother was a witch but his 
dad was a Muggle — or has he been telling you lot 
he’s pureblood?” 

“STUPEF — ” 

“iVO!” 

A jet of red light had shot from the end of Bellatrix 
Lestrange’s wand, but Malfoy had deflected it. His 
spell caused hers to hit the shelf a foot to the left of 
Harry and several of the glass orbs there shattered. 

Two figures, pearly white as ghosts, fluid as smoke, 
unfurled themselves from the fragments of broken 
glass upon the floor and each began to speak. Their 

Page | lOOlHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




voices vied with each other, so that only fragments of 
what they were saying could be heard over Malfoy and 
Bellatrix’s shouts. 



"... at the Solstice will come a new ...” said the figure 
of an old, bearded man. 

“DO NOT ATTACK! WE NEED THE PROPHECY!” 

“He dared — he dares — ” shrieked Bellatrix 
incoherently. “ — He stands there — filthy half-blood 



“WAIT UNTIL WEVE GOT THE PROPHECY!” bawled 
Malfoy. 

"... and none will come after ...” said the figure of a 
young woman. 

The two figures that had burst from the shattered 
spheres had melted into thin air. Nothing remained of 
them or their erstwhile homes but fragments of glass 
upon the floor. They had, however, given Harry an 
idea. The problem was going to be conveying it to the 
others. 

“You haven’t told me what’s so special about this 
prophecy I’m supposed to be handing over,” he said, 
playing for time. He moved his foot slowly sideways, 
feeling around for someone else’s. 

“Do not play games with us, Potter,” said Malfoy. 

“I’m not playing games,” said Harry, half his mind on 
the conversation, half on his wandering foot. And 
then he found someone’s toes and pressed down upon 
them. A sharp intake of breath behind him told him 
they were Hermione’s. 

Page | 1002Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” she whispered. 

“Dumbledore never told you that the reason you bear 
that scar was hidden in the bowels of the Department 
of Mysteries?” said Malfoy sneeringly. 

“I — what?” said Harry, and for a moment he quite 
forgot his plan. “What about my scar?” 

“ What?” whispered Hermione more urgently behind 
him. 

“Can this be?” said Malfoy, sounding maliciously 
delighted; some of the Death Eaters were laughing 
again, and under cover of their laughter, Harry hissed 
to Hermione, moving his lips as little as possible, 
“Smash shelves — ” 

“Dumbledore never told you?” Malfoy repeated. “Well, 
this explains why you didn’t come earlier, Potter, the 
Dark Lord wondered why — ” 

“ — when I say go — ” 

“ — you didn’t come running when he showed you the 
place where it was hidden in your dreams. He 
thought natural curiosity would make you want to 
hear the exact wording...” 

“Did he?” said Harry. Behind him he felt rather than 
heard Hermione passing his message to the others 
and he sought to keep talking, to distract the Death 
Eaters. “So he wanted me to come and get it, did he? 
Why?” 

“Why?” Malfoy sounded incredulously delighted. 
“Because the only people who are permitted to 
retrieve a prophecy from the Department of Mysteries, 
Potter, are those about whom it was made, as the 

Page | 1003Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dark Lord discovered when he attempted to use 
others to steal it for him.” 

“And why did he want to steal a prophecy about me?” 

“About both of you, Potter, about both of you ... 
Haven’t you ever wondered why the Dark Lord tried to 
kill you as a baby?” 

Harry stared into the slitted eyeholes through which 
Malfoy’s gray eyes were gleaming. Was this prophecy 
the reason Harry’s parents had died, the reason he 
carried his lightning-bolt scar? Was the answer to all 
of this clutched in his hand? 

“Someone made a prophecy about Voldemort and 
me?” he said quietly, gazing at Lucius Malfoy, his 
fingers tightening over the warm glass sphere in his 
hand. It was hardly larger than a Snitch and still 
gritty with dust. “And he’s made me come and get it 
for him? Why couldn’t he come and get it himself?” 

“Get it himself?” shrieked Bellatrix on a cackle of mad 
laughter. “The Dark Lord, walk into the Ministry of 
Magic, when they are so sweetly ignoring his return? 
The Dark Lord, reveal himself to the Aurors, when at 
the moment they are wasting their time on my dear 
cousin?” 

“So he’s got you doing his dirty work for him, has 
he?” said Harry. “Like he tried to get Sturgis to steal it 
— and Bode?” 

“Very good, Potter, very good ...” said Malfoy slowly. 
“But the Dark Lord knows you are not unintell — ” 

“NOW!” yelled Harry. 



Page | 1004Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Five different voices behind him bellowed “REDUCTOl” 
Five curses flew in five different directions and the 
shelves opposite them exploded as they hit. The 
towering structure swayed as a hundred glass 
spheres burst apart, pearly-white figures unfurled 
into the air and floated there, their voices echoing 
from who knew what long-dead past amid the torrent 
of crashing glass and splintered wood now raining 
down upon the floor — 

“RUN!” Harry yelled, and as the shelves swayed 
precariously and more glass spheres began to pour 
from above, he seized a handful of Hermione’s robes 
and dragged her forward, one arm over his head as 
chunks of shelf and shards of glass thundered down 
upon them. A Death Eater lunged forward through 
the cloud of dust and Harry elbowed him hard in the 
masked face. They were all yelling, there were cries of 
pain, thunderous crashes as the shelves collapsed 
upon themselves, weirdly echoing fragments of the 
Seers unleashed from their spheres — 

Harry found the way ahead clear and saw Ron, 

Ginny, and Luna sprint past him, their arms over 
their heads. Something heavy struck him on the side 
of the face but he merely ducked his head and 
sprinted onward; a hand caught him by the shoulder; 
he heard Hermione shout “Stupefy\” and the hand 
released him at once. 

They were at the end of row ninety-seven; Harry 
turned right and began to sprint in earnest. He could 
hear footsteps right behind him and Hermione’s voice 
urging Neville on. The door through which they had 
come was ajar straight ahead, Harry could see the 
glittering light of the bell jar, he pelted through it, the 
prophecy still clutched tight and safe in his hand, 
waited for the others to hurtle over the threshold 
before slamming the door behind them — 

Page | 1005Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“ Colloportus\” gasped Hermione and the door sealed 
itself with an odd squelching noise. 

“Where — where are the others?” gasped Harry. 

He had thought that Ron, Luna, and Ginny had been 
ahead of them, that they would be waiting in this 
room, but there was nobody there. 

“They must have gone the wrong way!” whispered 
Hermione, terror in her face. 

“Listen!” whispered Neville. 

Footsteps and shouts echoed from behind the door 
they had just sealed. Harry put his ear close to the 
door to listen and heard Lucius Malfoy roar: “Leave 
Nott, leave him, I say, the Dark Lord will not care for 
Nott’s injuries as much as losing that prophecy — 
Jugson, come back here, we need to organize! Well 
split into pairs and search, and don’t forget, be gentle 
with Potter until we’ve got the prophecy, you can kill 
the others if necessary — Bellatrix, Rodolphus, you 
take the left, Crabbe, Rabastan, go right — Jugson, 
Dolohov, the door straight ahead — Macnair and 
Avery, through here — Rookwood, over there — 
Mulciber, come with me!” 

“What do we do?” Hermione asked Harry, trembling 
from head to foot. 

“Well, we don’t stand here waiting for them to find us, 
for a start,” said Harry. “Let’s get away from this 
door...” 

They ran, quietly as they could, past the shimmering 
bell jar where the tiny egg was hatching and 
unhatching, toward the exit into the circular hallway 
at the far end of the room. They were almost there 

Page | 1006Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




when Harry heard something large and heavy collide 
with the door Hermione had charmed shut. 

“Stand aside!” said a rough voice. “Alohomora\” 

As the door flew open, Harry, Hermione, and Neville 
dived under desks. They could see the bottom of the 
two Death Eaters’ robes drawing nearer, their feet 
moving rapidly. 

“They might’ve run straight through to the hall,” said 
the rough voice. 

“Check under the desks,” said another. 

Harry saw the knees of the Death Eaters bend. Poking 
his wand out from under the desk he shouted, 
“STUPEFY]” 

A jet of red light hit the nearest Death Eater; he fell 
backward into a grandfather clock and knocked it 
over. The second Death Eater, however, had leapt 
aside to avoid Harry’s spell and now pointed his own 
wand at Hermione, who had crawled out from under 
the desk to get a better aim. 

“Avada — ” 

Harry launched himself across the floor and grabbed 
the Death Eater around the knees, causing him to 
topple and his aim to go awry. Neville overturned his 
desk in his anxiety to help; pointing his wand wildly 
at the struggling pair he cried, “EXPELLIARMUS\” 

Both Harry’s and the Death Eater’s wands flew out of 
their hands and soared back toward the entrance to 
the Hall of Prophecy; both scrambled to their feet and 
charged after them, the Death Eater in front and 



Page | 1007Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry hot on his heels, Neville bringing up the rear, 
plainly horrors truck at what he had done. 



“Get out of the way, Harry!” yelled Neville, clearly 
determined to repair the damage. 

Harry flung himself sideways as Neville took aim 
again and shouted, “ STUPEFY !” 

The jet of red light flew right over the Death Eater’s 
shoulder and hit a glass-fronted cabinet on the wall 
full of variously shaped hourglasses. The cabinet fell 
to the floor and burst apart, glass flying everywhere, 
then sprang back up onto the wall, fully mended, 
then fell down again, and shattered — 

The Death Eater had snatched up his wand, which 
lay on the floor beside the glittering bell jar. Harry 
ducked down behind another desk as the man turned 
— his mask had slipped so that he could not see, he 
ripped it off with his free hand and shouted, “STUP — 



“STUPEFY]” screamed Hermione, who had just caught 
up with them. The jet of red light hit the Death Eater 
in the middle of his chest; he froze, his arm still 
raised, his wand fell to the floor with a clatter and he 
collapsed backward toward the bell jar. Harry 
expected to hear a clunk, for the man to hit solid glass 
and slide off the jar onto the floor, but instead, his 
head sank through the surface of the bell jar as 
though it was nothing but a soap bubble and he came 
to rest, sprawled on his back on the table, with his 
head lying inside the jar full of glittering wind. 

“Accio Wand\” cried Hermione. Harry’s wand flew from 
a dark corner into her hand and she threw it to him. 

“Thanks,” he said, “right, let’s get out of — ” 

Page | 1008Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Look out!” said Neville, horrified, staring at the Death 
Eater’s head in the bell jar. 

All three of them raised their wands again, but none 
of them struck. They were all gazing, openmouthed, 
appalled, at what was happening to the man’s head. 

It was shrinking very fast, growing balder and balder, 
the black hair and stubble retracting into his skull, 
his cheeks smooth, his skull round and covered with 
a peachlike fuzz... 

A baby’s head now sat grotesquely on top of the thick, 
muscled neck of the Death Eater as he struggled to 
get up again. But even as they watched, their mouths 
open, the head began to swell to its previous 
proportions again, thick black hair was sprouting 
from the pate and chin... 

“It’s time,” said Hermione in an awestruck voice. 

“ Time ...” 
