      easel to put it back against the wall; but, in crossing the room,
      stopped, for he seemed to hear sobbing.

      It was nothing—only the sort of thing that had been bothering him
      in the morning. And soon after, putting the high guard before the
      blazing fire, he stole downstairs.

      Fresh for the morrow! was his thought. It was long before he went
      to sleep....

      It is now to George Forsyte that the mind must turn for light on
      the events of that fog-engulfed afternoon.

      The wittiest and most sportsmanlike of the Forsytes had passed
      the day reading a novel in the paternal mansion at Princes’
      Gardens. Since a recent crisis in his financial affairs he had
      been kept on parole by Roger, and compelled to reside “at home.”

      Towards five o’clock he went out, and took train at South
      Kensington Station (for everyone to-day went Underground). His
      intention was to dine, and pass the evening playing billiards at
      the Red Pottle—that unique hostel, neither club, hotel, nor good
      gilt restaurant.

      He got out at Charing Cross, choosing it in preference to his
      more usual St. James’s Park, that he might reach Jermyn Street by
      better lighted ways.

      On the platform his eyes—for in combination with a composed and
      fashionable appearance, George had sharp eyes, and was always on
      the look-out for fillips to his sardonic humour—his eyes were
      attracted by a man, who, leaping from a first-class compartment,
      staggered rather than walked towards the exit.

      “So ho, my bird!” said George to himself; “why, it’s “the
      Buccaneer!”” and he put his big figure on the trail. Nothing
      afforded him greater amusement than a drunken man.

      Bosinney, who wore a slouch hat, stopped in front of him, spun
      around, and rushed back towards the carriage he had just left. He
      was too late. A porter caught him by the coat; the train was
      already moving on.

      George’s practised glance caught sight of the face of a lady clad
      in a grey fur coat at the carriage window. It was Mrs. Soames—and
      George felt that this was interesting!

      And now he followed Bosinney more closely than ever—up the
      stairs, past the ticket collector into the street. In that
      progress, however, his feelings underwent a change; no longer
      merely curious and amused, he felt sorry for the poor fellow he
      was shadowing. “The Buccaneer” was not drunk, but seemed to be
      acting under the stress of violent emotion; he was talking to
      himself, and all that George could catch were the words “Oh,
      God!” Nor did he appear to know what he was doing, or where
      going; but stared, hesitated, moved like a man out of his mind;
      and from being merely a joker in search of amusement, George felt
      that he must see the poor chap through.

      He had “taken the knock”—“taken the knock!” And he wondered what
      on earth Mrs. Soames had been saying, what on earth she had been
      telling him in the railway carriage. She had looked bad enough
      herself! It made George sorry to think of her travelling on with
      her trouble all alone.

      He followed close behind Bosinney’s elbow—tall, burly figure,
      saying nothing, dodging warily—and shadowed him out into the fog.

      There was something here beyond a jest! He kept his head
      admirably, in spite of some excitement, for in addition to
      compassion, the instincts of the chase were roused within him.

      Bosinney walked right out into the thoroughfare—a vast muffled
      blackness, where a man could not see six paces before him; where,
      all around, voices or whistles mocked the sense of direction; and
      sudden shapes came rolling slow upon them; and now and then a
      light showed like a dim island in an infinite dark sea.

      And fast into this perilous gulf of night walked Bosinney, and
      fast after him walked George. If the fellow meant to put his
      “twopenny” under a ’bus, he would stop it if he could! Across the
      street and back the hunted creature strode, not groping as other
      men were groping in that gloom, but driven forward as though the
      faithful George behind wielded a knout; and this chase after a
      haunted man began to have for George the strangest fascination.

      But it was now that the affair developed in a way which ever
      afterwards caused it to remain green in his mind. Brought to a
      stand-still in the fog, he heard words which threw a sudden light
      on these proceedings. What Mrs. Soames had said to Bosinney in
      the train was now no longer dark. George understood from those
      mutterings that Soames had exercised his rights over an estranged
      and unwilling wife in the greatest—the supreme act of property.

      His fancy wandered in the fields of this situation; it impressed
      him; he guessed something of the anguish, the sexual confusion
      and horror in Bosinney’s heart. And he thought: “Yes, it’s a bit
      thick! I don’t wonder the poor fellow is half-cracked!”

      He had run his quarry to earth on a bench under one of the lions
      in Trafalgar Square, a monster sphynx astray like themselves in
      that gulf of darkness. Here, rigid and silent, sat Bosinney, and
      George, in whose patience was a touch of strange brotherliness,
      took his stand behind. He was not lacking in a certain delicacy—a
      sense of form—that did not permit him to intrude upon this
      tragedy, and he waited, quiet as the lion above, his fur collar
      hitched above his ears concealing the fleshy redness of his
      cheeks, concealing all but his eyes with their sardonic,
      compassionate stare. And men kept passing back from business on
      the way to their clubs—men whose figures shrouded in cocoons of
      fog came into view like spectres, and like spectres vanished.
      Then even in his compassion George’s Quilpish humour broke forth
      in a sudden longing to pluck these spectres by the sleeve, and
      say:

      “Hi, you Johnnies! You don’t often see a show like this! Here’s a
      poor devil whose mistress has just been telling him a pretty
      little story of her husband; walk up, walk up! He’s taken the
      knock, you see.”

      In fancy he saw them gaping round the tortured lover; and grinned
      as he thought of some respectable, newly-married spectre enabled
      by the state of his own affections to catch an inkling of what
      was going on within Bosinney; he fancied he could see his mouth
      getting wider and wider, and the fog going down and down. For in
      George was all that contempt of the middle-class—especially of
      the married middle-class—peculiar to the wild and sportsmanlike
      spirits in its ranks.

      But he began to be bored. Waiting was not what he had bargained
      for.

      “After all,” he thought, “the poor chap will get over it; not the
      first time such a thing has happened in this little city!” But
      now his quarry again began muttering words of violent hate and
      anger. And following a sudden impulse George touched him on the
      shoulder.

      Bosinney spun round.

      “Who are you? What do you want?”

      George could have stood it well enough in the light of the gas
      lamps, in the light of that everyday world of which he was so
      hardy a connoisseur; but in this fog, where all was gloomy and
      unreal, where nothing had that matter-of-fact value associated by
      Forsytes with earth, he was a victim to strange qualms, and as he
      tried to stare back into the eyes of this maniac, he thought:

      “If I see a bobby, I’ll hand him over; he’s not fit to be at
      large.”

      But waiting for no answer, Bosinney strode off into the fog, and
      George followed, keeping perhaps a little further off, yet more
      than ever set on tracking him down.

      “He can’t go on long like this,” he thought. “It’s God’s own
      miracle he’s not been run over already.” He brooded no more on
      policemen, a sportsman’s sacred fire alive again within him.

      Into a denser gloom than ever Bosinney held on at a furious pace;
      but his pursuer perceived more method in his madness—he was
      clearly making his way westwards.

      “He’s really going for Soames!” thought George. The idea was
      attractive. It would be a sporting end to such a chase. He had
      always disliked his cousin.

      The shaft of a passing cab brushed against his shoulder and made
      him leap aside. He did not intend to be killed for the Buccaneer,
      or anyone. Yet, with hereditary tenacity, he stuck to the trail
      through vapour that blotted out everything but the shadow of the
      hunted man and the dim moon of the nearest lamp.

      Then suddenly, with the instinct of a town-stroller, George knew
      himself to be in Piccadilly. Here he could find his way
      blindfold; and freed from the strain of geographical uncertainty,
      his mind returned to Bosinney’s trouble.

      Down the long avenue of his man-about-town experience, bursting,
      as it were, through a smirch of doubtful amours, there stalked to
      him a memory of his youth. A memory, poignant still, that brought
      the scent of hay, the gleam of moonlight, a summer magic, into
      the reek and blackness of this London fog—the memory of a night
      when in the darkest shadow of a lawn he had overheard from a
      woman’s lips that he was not her sole possessor. And for a moment
      George walked no longer in black Piccadilly, but lay again, with
      hell in his heart, and his face to the sweet-smelling, dewy
      grass, in the long shadow of poplars that hid the moon.

      A longing seized him to throw his arm round the Buccaneer, and
      say, “Come, old boy. Time cures all. Let’s go and drink it off!”

      But a voice yelled at him, and he started back. A cab rolled out
      of blackness, and into blackness disappeared. And suddenly George
      perceived that he had lost Bosinney. He ran forward and back,
      felt his heart clutched by a sickening fear, the dark fear which
      lives in the wings of the fog. Perspiration started out on his
      brow. He stood quite still, listening with all his might.

      “And then,” as he confided to Dartie the same evening in the
      course of a game of billiards at the Red Pottle, “I lost him.”

      Dartie twirled complacently at his dark moustache. He had just
      put together a neat break of twenty-three,—failing at a “Jenny.”
      “And who was _she?_” he asked.

      George looked slowly at the “man of the world’s” fattish, sallow
      face, and a little grim smile lurked about the curves of his
      cheeks and his heavy-lidded eyes.

      “No, no, my fine fellow,” he thought, “I’m not going to tell
      _you_.” For though he mixed with Dartie a good deal, he thought
      him a bit of a cad.

      “Oh, some little love-lady or other,” he said, and chalked his
      cue.

      “A love-lady!” exclaimed Dartie—he used a more figurative
      expression. “I made sure it was our friend Soa....”

      “Did you?” said George curtly. “Then damme you’ve made an error.”

      He missed his shot. He was careful not to allude to the subject
      again till, towards eleven o’clock, having, in his poetic
      phraseology, “looked upon the drink when it was yellow,” he drew
      aside the blind, and gazed out into the street. The murky
      blackness of the fog was but faintly broken by the lamps of the
      “Red Pottle,” and no shape of mortal man or thing was in sight.

      “I can’t help thinking of that poor Buccaneer,” he said. “He may
      be wandering out there now in that fog. If he’s not a corpse,” he
      added with strange dejection.

      “Corpse!” said Dartie, in whom the recollection of his defeat at
      Richmond flared up. “_He’s_ all right. Ten to one if he wasn’t
      tight!”

      George turned on him, looking really formidable, with a sort of
      savage gloom on his big face.

      “Dry up!” he said. “Don’t I tell you he’s ‘taken the knock!’”




      CHAPTER V THE TRIAL

      In the morning of his case, which was second in the list, Soames
      was again obliged to start without seeing Irene, and it was just
      as well, for he had not as yet made up his mind what attitude to
      adopt towards her.

      He had been requested to be in court by half-past ten, to provide
      against the event of the first action (a breach of promise)
      collapsing, which however it did not, both sides showing a
      courage that afforded Waterbuck, Q.C., an opportunity for
      improving his already great reputation in this class of case. He
      was opposed by Ram, the other celebrated breach of promise man.
      It was a battle of giants.

      The court delivered judgment just before the luncheon interval.
      The jury left the box for good, and Soames went out to get
      something to eat. He met James standing at the little
      luncheon-bar, like a pelican in the wilderness of the galleries,
      bent over a sandwich with a glass of sherry before him. The
      spacious emptiness of the great central hall, over which father
      and son brooded as they stood together, was marred now and then
      for a fleeting moment by barristers in wig and gown hurriedly
      bolting across, by an occasional old lady or rusty-coated man,
      looking up in a frightened way, and by two persons, bolder than
      their generation, seated in an embrasure arguing. The sound of
      their voices arose, together with a scent as of neglected wells,
      which, mingling with the odour of the galleries, combined to form
      the savour, like nothing but the emanation of a refined cheese,
      so indissolubly connected with the administration of British
      Justice.

      It was not long before James addressed his son.

      “When’s your case coming on? I suppose it’ll be on directly. I
      shouldn’t wonder if this Bosinney’d say anything; I should think
      he’d have to. He’ll go bankrupt if it goes against him.” He took
      a large bite at his sandwich and a mouthful of sherry. “Your
      mother,” he said, “wants you and Irene to come and dine
      to-night.”

      A chill smile played round Soames’s lips; he looked back at his
      father. Anyone who had seen the look, cold and furtive, thus
      interchanged, might have been pardoned for not appreciating the
      real understanding between them. James finished his sherry at a
      draught.

      “How much?” he asked.

      On returning to the court Soames took at once his rightful seat
      on the front bench beside his solicitor. He ascertained where his
      father was seated with a glance so sidelong as to commit nobody.

      James, sitting back with his hands clasped over the handle of his
      umbrella, was brooding on the end of the bench immediately behind
      counsel, whence he could get away at once when the case was over.
      He considered Bosinney’s conduct in every way outrageous, but he
      did not wish to run up against him, feeling that the meeting
      would be awkward.

      Next to the Divorce Court, this court was, perhaps, the favourite
      emporium of justice, libel, breach of promise, and other
      commercial actions being frequently decided there. Quite a
      sprinkling of persons unconnected with the law occupied the back
      benches, and the hat of a woman or two could be seen in the
      gallery.

      The two rows of seats immediately in front of James were
      gradually filled by barristers in wigs, who sat down to make
      pencil notes, chat, and attend to their teeth; but his interest
      was soon diverted from these lesser lights of justice by the
      entrance of Waterbuck, Q.C., with the wings of his silk gown
      rustling, and his red, capable face supported by two short, brown
      whiskers. The famous Q.C. looked, as James freely admitted, the
      very picture of a man who could heckle a witness.

      For all his experience, it so happened that he had never seen
      Waterbuck, Q.C., before, and, like many Forsytes in the lower
      branch of the profession, he had an extreme admiration for a good
      cross-examiner. The long, lugubrious folds in his cheeks relaxed
      somewhat after seeing him, especially as he now perceived that
      Soames alone was represented by silk.

      Waterbuck, Q.C., had barely screwed round on his elbow to chat
      with his Junior before Mr. Justice Bentham himself appeared—a
      thin, rather hen-like man, with a little stoop, clean-shaven
      under his snowy wig. Like all the rest of the court, Waterbuck
      rose, and remained on his feet until the judge was seated. James
      rose but slightly; he was already comfortable, and had no opinion
      of Bentham, having sat next but one to him at dinner twice at the
      Bumley Tomms’. Bumley Tomm was rather a poor thing, though he had
      been so successful. James himself had given him his first brief.
      He was excited, too, for he had just found out that Bosinney was
      not in court.

      “Now, what’s he mean by that?” he kept on thinking.

      The case having been called on, Waterbuck, Q.C., pushing back his
      papers, hitched his gown on his shoulder, and, with a
      semi-circular look around him, like a man who is going to bat,
      arose and addressed the Court.

      The facts, he said, were not in dispute, and all that his
      Lordship would be asked was to interpret the correspondence which
      had taken place between his client and the defendant, an
      architect, with reference to the decoration of a house. He would,
      however, submit that this correspondence could only mean one very
      plain thing. After briefly reciting the history of the house at
      Robin Hill, which he described as a mansion, and the actual facts
      of expenditure, he went on as follows:

      “My client, Mr. Soames Forsyte, is a gentleman, a man of
      property, who would be the last to dispute any legitimate claim
      that might be made against him, but he has met with such
      treatment from his architect in the matter of this house, over
      which he has, as your lordship has heard, already spent some
      twelve—some twelve thousand pounds, a sum considerably in advance
      of the amount he had originally contemplated, that as a matter of
      principle—and this I cannot too strongly emphasize—as a matter of
      principle, and in the interests of others, he has felt himself
      compelled to bring this action. The point put forward in defence
      by the architect I will suggest to your lordship is not worthy of
      a moment’s serious consideration.” He then read the
      correspondence.

      His client, “a man of recognised position,” was prepared to go
      into the box, and to swear that he never did authorize, that it
      was never in his mind to authorize, the expenditure of any money
      beyond the extreme limit of twelve thousand and fifty pounds,
      which he had clearly fixed; and not further to waste the time of
      the court, he would at once call Mr. Forsyte.

      Soames then went into the box. His whole appearance was striking
      in its composure. His face, just supercilious enough, pale and
      clean-shaven, with a little line between the eyes, and compressed
      lips; his dress in unostentatious order, one hand neatly gloved,
      the other bare. He answered the questions put to him in a
      somewhat low, but distinct voice. His evidence under
      cross-examination savoured of taciturnity.

      Had he not used the expression, “a free hand”? No.

      “Come, come!”

      The expression he had used was “a free hand in the terms of this
      correspondence.”

      “Would you tell the Court that that was English?”

      “Yes!”

      “What do you say it means?”

      “What it says!”

      “Are you prepared to deny that it is a contradiction in terms?”

      “Yes.”

      “You are not an Irishman?”

      “No.”

      “Are you a well-educated man?”

      “Yes.”

      “And yet you persist in that statement?”

      “Yes.”

      Throughout this and much more cross-examination, which turned
      again and again around the “nice point,” James sat with his hand
      behind his ear, his eyes fixed upon his son.

      He was proud of him! He could not but feel that in similar
      circumstances he himself would have been tempted to enlarge his
      replies, but his instinct told him that this taciturnity was the
      very thing. He sighed with relief, however, when Soames, slowly
      turning, and without any change of expression, descended from the
      box.

      When it came to the turn of Bosinney’s Counsel to address the
      Judge, James redoubled his attention, and he searched the Court
      again and again to see if Bosinney were not somewhere concealed.

      Young Chankery began nervously; he was placed by Bosinney’s
      absence in an awkward position. He therefore did his best to turn
      that absence to account.

      He could not but fear—he said—that his client had met with an
      accident. He had fully expected him there to give evidence; they
      had sent round that morning both to Mr. Bosinney’s office and to
      his rooms (though he knew they were one and the same, he thought
      it was as well not to say so), but it was not known where he was,
      and this he considered to be ominous, knowing how anxious Mr.
      Bosinney had been to give his evidence. He had not, however, been
      instructed to apply for an adjournment, and in default of such
      instruction he conceived it his duty to go on. The plea on which
      he somewhat confidently relied, and which his client, had he not
      unfortunately been prevented in some way from attending, would
      have supported by his evidence, was that such an expression as a
      “free hand” could not be limited, fettered, and rendered
      unmeaning, by any verbiage which might follow it. He would go
      further and say that the correspondence showed that whatever he
      might have said in his evidence, Mr. Forsyte had in fact never
      contemplated repudiating liability on any of the work ordered or
      executed by his architect. The defendant had certainly never
      contemplated such a contingency, or, as was demonstrated by his
      letters, he would never have proceeded with the work—a work of
      extreme delicacy, carried out with great care and efficiency, to
      meet and satisfy the fastidious taste of a connoisseur, a rich
      man, a man of property. He felt strongly on this point, and
      feeling strongly he used, perhaps, rather strong words when he
      said that this action was of a most unjustifiable, unexpected,
      indeed—unprecedented character. If his Lordship had had the
      opportunity that he himself had made it his duty to take, to go
      over this very fine house and see the great delicacy and beauty
      of the decorations executed by his client—an artist in his most
      honourable profession—he felt convinced that not for one moment
      would his Lordship tolerate this, he would use no stronger word
      than daring attempt to evade legitimate responsibility.

      Taking the text of Soames’s letters, he lightly touched on
      “Boileau _v_. The Blasted Cement Company, Limited.” “It is
      doubtful,” he said, “what that authority has decided; in any case
      I would submit that it is just as much in my favour as in my
      friend’s.” He then argued the “nice point” closely. With all due
      deference he submitted that Mr. Forsyte’s expression nullified
      itself. His client not being a rich man, the matter was a serious
      one for him; he was a very talented architect, whose professional
      reputation was undoubtedly somewhat at stake. He concluded with a
      perhaps too personal appeal to the Judge, as a lover of the arts,
      to show himself the protector of artists, from what was
      occasionally—he said occasionally—the too iron hand of capital.
      “What,” he said, “will be the position of the artistic
      professions, if men of property like this Mr. Forsyte refuse, and
      are allowed to refuse, to carry out the obligations of the
      commissions which they have given.” He would now call his client,
      in case he should at the last moment have found himself able to
      be present.

      The name Philip Baynes Bosinney was called three times by the
      Ushers, and the sound of the calling echoed with strange
      melancholy throughout the Court and Galleries.

      The crying of this name, to which no answer was returned, had
      upon James a curious effect: it was like calling for your lost
      dog about the streets. And the creepy feeling that it gave him,
      of a man missing, grated on his sense of comfort and security—on
      his cosiness. Though he could not have said why, it made him feel
      uneasy.

      He looked now at the clock—a quarter to three! It would be all
      over in a quarter of an hour. Where could the young fellow be?

      It was only when Mr. Justice Bentham delivered judgment that he
      got over the turn he had received.

      Behind the wooden erection, by which he was fenced from more
      ordinary mortals, the learned Judge leaned forward. The electric
      light, just turned on above his head, fell on his face, and
      mellowed it to an orange hue beneath the snowy crown of his wig;
      the amplitude of his robes grew before the eye; his whole figure,
      facing the comparative dusk of the Court, radiated like some
      majestic and sacred body. He cleared his throat, took a sip of
      water, broke the nib of a quill against the desk, and, folding
      his bony hands before him, began.

      To James he suddenly loomed much larger than he had ever thought
      Bentham would loom. It was the majesty of the law; and a person
      endowed with a nature far less matter-of-fact than that of James
      might have been excused for failing to pierce this halo, and
      disinter therefrom the somewhat ordinary Forsyte, who walked and
      talked in every-day life under the name of Sir Walter Bentham.

      He delivered judgment in the following words:

      “The facts in this case are not in dispute. On May 15 last the
      defendant wrote to the plaintiff, requesting to be allowed to
      withdraw from his professional position in regard to the
      decoration of the plaintiff’s house, unless he were given ‘a free
      hand.’ The plaintiff, on May 17, wrote back as follows: ‘In
      giving you, in accordance with your request, this free hand, I
      wish you to clearly understand that the total cost of the house
      as handed over to me completely decorated, inclusive of your fee
      (as arranged between us) must not exceed twelve thousand pounds.’
      To this letter the defendant replied on May 18: ‘If you think
      that in such a delicate matter as decoration I can bind myself to
      the exact pound, I am afraid you are mistaken.’ On May 19 the
      plaintiff wrote as follows: ‘I did not mean to say that if you
      should exceed the sum named in my letter to you by ten or twenty
      or even fifty pounds there would be any difficulty between us.
      You have a free hand in the terms of this correspondence, and I
      hope you will see your way to completing the decorations.’ On May
      20 the defendant replied thus shortly: ‘Very well.’

      “In completing these decorations, the defendant incurred
      liabilities and expenses which brought the total cost of this
      house up to the sum of twelve thousand four hundred pounds, all
      of which expenditure has been defrayed by the plaintiff. This
      action has been brought by the plaintiff to recover from the
      defendant the sum of three hundred and fifty pounds expended by
      him in excess of a sum of twelve thousand and fifty pounds,
      alleged by the plaintiff to have been fixed by this
      correspondence as the maximum sum that the defendant had
      authority to expend.

      “The question for me to decide is whether or no the defendant is
      liable to refund to the plaintiff this sum. In my judgment he is
      so liable.

      “What in effect the plaintiff has said is this ‘I give you a free
      hand to complete these decorations, provided that you keep within
      a total cost to me of twelve thousand pounds. If you exceed that
      sum by as much as fifty pounds, I will not hold you responsible;
      beyond that point you are no agent of mine, and I shall repudiate
      liability.’ It is not quite clear to me whether, had the
      plaintiff in fact repudiated liability under his agent’s
      contracts, he would, under all the circumstances, have been
      successful in so doing; but he has not adopted this course. He
      has accepted liability, and fallen back upon his rights against
      the defendant under the terms of the latter’s engagement.

      “In my judgment the plaintiff is entitled to recover this sum
      from the defendant.

      “It has been sought, on behalf of the defendant, to show that no
      limit of expenditure was fixed or intended to be fixed by this
      correspondence. If this were so, I can find no reason for the
      plaintiff’s importation into the correspondence of the figures of
      twelve thousand pounds and subsequently of fifty pounds. The
      defendant’s contention would render these figures meaningless. It
      is manifest to me that by his letter of May 20 he assented to a
      very clear proposition, by the terms of which he must be held to
      be bound.

      “For these reasons there will be judgment for the plaintiff for
      the amount claimed with costs.”

      James sighed, and stooping, picked up his umbrella which had
      fallen with a rattle at the words “importation into this
      correspondence.”

      Untangling his legs, he rapidly left the Court; without waiting
      for his son, he snapped up a hansom cab (it was a clear, grey
      afternoon) and drove straight to Timothy’s where he found
      Swithin; and to him, Mrs. Septimus Small, and Aunt Hester, he
      recounted the whole proceedings, eating two muffins not
      altogether in the intervals of speech.

      “Soames did very well,” he ended; “he’s got his head screwed on
      the right way. This won’t please Jolyon. It’s a bad business for
      that young Bosinney; he’ll go bankrupt, I shouldn’t wonder,” and
      then after a long pause, during which he had stared disquietly
      into the fire, he added:

      “He wasn’t there—now why?”

      There was a sound of footsteps. The figure of a thick-set man,
      with the ruddy brown face of robust health, was seen in the back
      drawing-room. The forefinger of his upraised hand was outlined
      against the black of his frock coat. He spoke in a grudging
      voice.

      “Well, James,” he said, “I can’t—I can’t stop,” and turning
      round, he walked out.

      It was Timothy.

      James rose from his chair. “There!” he said, “there! I knew there
      was something wro....” He checked himself, and was silent,
      staring before him, as though he had seen a portent.




      CHAPTER VI SOAMES BREAKS THE NEWS

      In leaving the Court Soames did not go straight home. He felt
      disinclined for the City, and drawn by need for sympathy in his
      triumph, he, too, made his way, but slowly and on foot, to
      Timothy’s in the Bayswater Road.

      His father had just left; Mrs. Small and Aunt Hester, in
      possession of the whole story, greeted him warmly. They were sure
      he was hungry after all that evidence. Smither should toast him
      some more muffins, his dear father had eaten them all. He must
      put his legs up on the sofa; and he must have a glass of prune
      brandy too. It was so strengthening.

      Swithin was still present, having lingered later than his wont,
      for he felt in want of exercise. On hearing this suggestion, he
      “pished.” A pretty pass young men were coming to! His own liver
      was out of order, and he could not bear the thought of anyone
      else drinking prune brandy.

      He went away almost immediately, saying to Soames: “And how’s
      your wife? You tell her from me that if she’s dull, and likes to
      come and dine with me quietly, I’ll give her such a bottle of
      champagne as she doesn’t get every day.” Staring down from his
      height on Soames he contracted his thick, puffy, yellow hand as
      though squeezing within it all this small fry, and throwing out
      his chest he waddled slowly away.

      Mrs. Small and Aunt Hester were left horrified. Swithin was so
      droll!

      They themselves were longing to ask Soames how Irene would take
      the result, yet knew that they must not; he would perhaps say
      something of his own accord, to throw some light on this, the
      present burning question in their lives, the question that from
      necessity of silence tortured them almost beyond bearing; for
      even Timothy had now been told, and the effect on his health was
      little short of alarming. And what, too, would June do? This,
      also, was a most exciting, if dangerous speculation!

      They had never forgotten old Jolyon’s visit, since when he had
      not once been to see them; they had never forgotten the feeling
      it gave all who were present, that the family was no longer what
      it had been—that the family was breaking up.

      But Soames gave them no help, sitting with his knees crossed,
      talking of the Barbizon school of painters, whom he had just
      discovered. These were the coming men, he said; he should not
      wonder if a lot of money were made over them; he had his eye on
      two pictures by a man called Corot, charming things; if he could
      get them at a reasonable price he was going to buy them—they
      would, he thought, fetch a big price some day.

      Interested as they could not but be, neither Mrs. Septimus Small
      nor Aunt Hester could entirely acquiesce in being thus put off.

      It was interesting—most interesting—and then Soames was so clever
      that they were sure he would do something with those pictures if
      anybody could; but what was his plan now that he had won his
      case; was he going to leave London at once, and live in the
      country, or what was he going to do?

      Soames answered that he did not know, he thought they should be
      moving soon. He rose and kissed his aunts.

      No sooner had Aunt Juley received this emblem of departure than a
      change came over her, as though she were being visited by
      dreadful courage; every little roll of flesh on her face seemed
      trying to escape from an invisible, confining mask.

      She rose to the full extent of her more than medium height, and
      said: “It has been on my mind a long time, dear, and if nobody
      else will tell you, I have made up my mind that....”

      Aunt Hester interrupted her: “Mind, Julia, you do it....” she
      gasped—“on your own responsibility!”

      Mrs. Small went on as though she had not heard: “I think you
      _ought_ to know, dear, that Mrs. MacAnder saw Irene walking in
      Richmond Park with Mr. Bosinney.”

      Aunt Hester, who had also risen, sank back in her chair, and
      turned her face away. Really Juley was too—she should not do such
      things when she—Aunt Hester, was in the room; and, breathless
      with anticipation, she waited for what Soames would answer.

      He had flushed the peculiar flush which always centred between
      his eyes; lifting his hand, and, as it were, selecting a finger,
      he bit a nail delicately; then, drawling it out between set lips,
      he said: “Mrs. MacAnder is a cat!”

      Without waiting for any reply, he left the room.

      When he went into Timothy’s he had made up his mind what course
      to pursue on getting home. He would go up to Irene and say:

      “Well, I’ve won my case, and there’s an end of it! I don’t want
      to be hard on Bosinney; I’ll see if we can’t come to some
      arrangement; he shan’t be pressed. And now let’s turn over a new
      leaf! We’ll let the house, and get out of these fogs. We’ll go
      down to Robin Hill at once. I—I never meant to be rough with you!
      Let’s shake hands—and—” Perhaps she would let him kiss her, and
      forget!

      When he came out of Timothy’s his intentions were no longer so
      simple. The smouldering jealousy and suspicion of months blazed
      up within him. He would put an end to that sort of thing once and
      for all; he would not have her drag his name in the dirt! If she
      could not or would not love him, as was her duty and his
      right—she should not play him tricks with anyone else! He would
      tax her with it; threaten to divorce her! That would make her
      behave; she would never face that. But—but—what if she did? He
      was staggered; this had not occurred to him.

      What if she did? What if she made him a confession? How would he
      stand then? He would have to bring a divorce!

      A divorce! Thus close, the word was paralyzing, so utterly at
      variance with all the principles that had hitherto guided his
      life. Its lack of compromise appalled him; he felt—like the
      captain of a ship, going to the side of his vessel, and, with his
      own hands throwing over the most precious of his bales. This
      jettisoning of his property with his own hand seemed uncanny to
      Soames. It would injure him in his profession: He would have to
      get rid of the house at Robin Hill, on which he had spent so much
      money, so much anticipation—and at a sacrifice. And she! She
      would no longer belong to him, not even in name! She would pass
      out of his life, and he—he should never see her again!

      He traversed in the cab the length of a street without getting
      beyond the thought that he should never see her again!

      But perhaps there was nothing to confess, even now very likely
      there was nothing to confess. Was it wise to push things so far?
      Was it wise to put himself into a position where he might have to
      eat his words? The result of this case would ruin Bosinney; a
      ruined man was desperate, but—what could he do? He might go
      abroad, ruined men always went abroad. What could _they_ do—if
      indeed it _was_ “_they_”—without money? It would be better to
      wait and see how things turned out. If necessary, he could have
      her watched. The agony of his jealousy (for all the world like
      the crisis of an aching tooth) came on again; and he almost cried
      out. But he must decide, fix on some course of action before he
      got home. When the cab drew up at the door, he had decided
      nothing.

      He entered, pale, his hands moist with perspiration, dreading to
      meet her, burning to meet her, ignorant of what he was to say or
      do.

      The maid Bilson was in the hall, and in answer to his question:
      “Where is your mistress?” told him that Mrs. Forsyte had left the
      house about noon, taking with her a trunk and bag.

      Snatching the sleeve of his fur coat away from her grasp, he
      confronted her:

      “What?” he exclaimed; “what’s that you said?” Suddenly
      recollecting that he must not betray emotion, he added: “What
      message did she leave?” and noticed with secret terror the
      startled look of the maid’s eyes.

      “Mrs. Forsyte left no message, sir.”

      “No message; very well, thank you, that will do. I shall be
      dining out.”

      The maid went downstairs, leaving him still in his fur coat, idly
      turning over the visiting cards in the porcelain bowl that stood
      on the carved oak rug chest in the hall.

      Mr. and Mrs. Bareham Culcher.
      Mrs. Septimus Small.
      Mrs. Baynes.
      Mr. Solomon Thornworthy.
      Lady Bellis.
      Miss Hermione Bellis.
      Miss Winifred Bellis.
      Miss Ella Bellis.

      Who the devil were all these people? He seemed to have forgotten
      all familiar things. The words “no message—a trunk, and a bag,”
      played a hide-and-seek in his brain. It was incredible that she
      had left no message, and, still in his fur coat, he ran upstairs
      two steps at a time, as a young married man when he comes home
      will run up to his wife’s room.

      Everything was dainty, fresh, sweet-smelling; everything in
      perfect order. On the great bed with its lilac silk quilt, was
      the bag she had made and embroidered with her own hands to hold
      her sleeping things; her slippers ready at the foot; the sheets
      even turned over at the head as though expecting her.

      On the table stood the silver-mounted brushes and bottles from
      her dressing bag, his own present. There must, then, be some
      mistake. What bag had she taken? He went to the bell to summon
      Bilson, but remembered in time that he must assume knowledge of
      where Irene had gone, take it all as a matter of course, and
      grope out the meaning for himself.

      He locked the doors, and tried to think, but felt his brain going
      round; and suddenly tears forced themselves into his eyes.

      Hurriedly pulling off his coat, he looked at himself in the
      mirror.

      He was too pale, a greyish tinge all over his face; he poured out
      water, and began feverishly washing.

      Her silver-mounted brushes smelt faintly of the perfumed lotion
      she used for her hair; and at this scent the burning sickness of
      his jealousy seized him again.

      Struggling into his fur, he ran downstairs and out into the
      street.

      He had not lost all command of himself, however, and as he went
      down Sloane Street he framed a story for use, in case he should
      not find her at Bosinney’s. But if he should? His power of
      decision again failed; he reached the house without knowing what
      he should do if he did find her there.

      It was after office hours, and the street door was closed; the
      woman who opened it could not say whether Mr. Bosinney were in or
      no; she had not seen him that day, not for two or three days; she
      did not attend to him now, nobody attended to him, he....

      Soames interrupted her, he would go up and see for himself. He
      went up with a dogged, white face.

      The top floor was unlighted, the door closed, no one answered his
      ringing, he could hear no sound. He was obliged to descend,
      shivering under his fur, a chill at his heart. Hailing a cab, he
      told the man to drive to Park Lane.

      On the way he tried to recollect when he had last given her a
      cheque; she could not have more than three or four pounds, but
      there were her jewels; and with exquisite torture he remembered
      how much money she could raise on these; enough to take them
      abroad; enough for them to live on for months! He tried to
      calculate; the cab stopped, and he got out with the calculation
      unmade.

      The butler asked whether Mrs. Soames was in the cab, the master
      had told him they were both expected to dinner.

      Soames answered: “No. Mrs. Forsyte has a cold.”

      The butler was sorry.

      Soames thought he was looking at him inquisitively, and
      remembering that he was not in dress clothes, asked: “Anybody
      here to dinner, Warmson?”

      “Nobody but Mr. and Mrs. Dartie, sir.”

      Again it seemed to Soames that the butler was looking curiously
      at him. His composure gave way.

      “What are you looking at?” he said. “What’s the matter with me,
      eh?”

      The butler blushed, hung up the fur coat, murmured something that
      sounded like: “Nothing, sir, I’m sure, sir,” and stealthily
      withdrew.

      Soames walked upstairs. Passing the drawing-room without a look,
      he went straight up to his mother’s and father’s bedroom.

      James, standing sideways, the concave lines of his tall, lean
      figure displayed to advantage in shirt-sleeves and evening
      waistcoat, his head bent, the end of his white tie peeping askew
      from underneath one white Dundreary whisker, his eyes peering
      with intense concentration, his lips pouting, was hooking the top
      hooks of his wife’s bodice. Soames stopped; he felt half-choked,
      whether because he had come upstairs too fast, or for some other
      reason. He—he himself had never—never been asked to....

      He heard his father’s voice, as though there were a pin in his
      mouth, saying: “Who’s that? Who’s there? What d’you want?” His
      mother’s: “Here, Félice, come and hook this; your master’ll never
      get done.”

      He put his hand up to his throat, and said hoarsely:

      “It’s I—Soames!”

      He noticed gratefully the affectionate surprise in Emily’s:
      “Well, my dear boy?” and James’, as he dropped the hook: “What,
      Soames! What’s brought you up? Aren’t you well?”

      He answered mechanically: “I’m all right,” and looked at them,
      and it seemed impossible to bring out his news.

      James, quick to take alarm, began: “You don’t look well. I expect
      you’ve taken a chill—it’s liver, I shouldn’t wonder. Your
      mother’ll give you....”

      But Emily broke in quietly: “Have you brought Irene?”

      Soames shook his head.

      “No,” he stammered, “she—she’s left me!”

      Emily deserted the mirror before which she was standing. Her
      tall, full figure lost its majesty and became very human as she
      came running over to Soames.

      “My dear boy! My _dear_ boy!”

      She put her lips to his forehead, and stroked his hand.

      James, too, had turned full towards his son; his face looked
      older.

      “Left you?” he said. “What d’you mean—left you? You never told me
      she was going to leave you.”

      Soames answered surlily: “How could I tell? What’s to be done?”

      James began walking up and down; he looked strange and stork-like
      without a coat. “What’s to be done!” he muttered. “How should I
      know what’s to be done? What’s the good of asking me? Nobody
      tells me anything, and then they come and ask me what’s to be
      done; and I should like to know how I’m to tell them! Here’s your
      mother, there she stands; _she_ doesn’t say anything. What _I_
      should say you’ve got to do is to follow her..”

      Soames smiled; his peculiar, supercilious smile had never before
      looked pitiable.

      “I don’t know where she’s gone,” he said.

      “Don’t know where she’s gone!” said James. “How d’you mean, don’t
      know where she’s gone? Where d’you suppose she’s gone? She’s gone
      after that young Bosinney, that’s where she’s gone. I knew how it
      would be.”

      Soames, in the long silence that followed, felt his mother
      pressing his hand. And all that passed seemed to pass as though
      his own power of thinking or doing had gone to sleep.

      His father’s face, dusky red, twitching as if he were going to
      cry, and words breaking out that seemed rent from him by some
      spasm in his soul.

      “There’ll be a scandal; I always said so.” Then, no one saying
      anything: “And there you stand, you and your mother!”

      And Emily’s voice, calm, rather contemptuous: “Come, now, James!
      Soames will do all that he can.”

      And James, staring at the floor, a little brokenly: “Well, I
      can’t help you; I’m getting old. Don’t you be in too great a
      hurry, my boy.”

      And his mother’s voice again: “Soames will do all he can to get
      her back. We won’t talk of it. It’ll all come right, I dare say.”

      And James: “Well, I can’t see how it can come right. And if she
      hasn’t gone off with that young Bosinney, my advice to you is not
      to listen to her, but to follow her and get her back.”

      Once more Soames felt his mother stroking his hand, in token of
      her approval, and as though repeating some form of sacred oath,
      he muttered between his teeth: “I will!”

      All three went down to the drawing-room together. There, were
      gathered the three girls and Dartie; had Irene been present, the
      family circle would have been complete.

      James sank into his armchair, and except for a word of cold
      greeting to Dartie, whom he both despised and dreaded, as a man
      likely to be always in want of money, he said nothing till dinner
      was announced. Soames, too, was silent; Emily alone, a woman of
      cool courage, maintained a conversation with Winifred on trivial
      subjects. She was never more composed in her manner and
