Somewhere under Harry’s numb disbelief he felt a 
ripple of anger. Little boy ? 

Madame Maxime had drawn herself up to her full, 
and considerable, height. The top of her handsome 
head brushed the candle-filled chandelier, and her 
gigantic black-satin bosom swelled. 



Page | 304 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What is ze meaning of zis, Dumbly-dorr?” she said 
imperiously. 

“I’d rather like to know that myself, Dumbledore,” 
said Professor Karkaroff. He was wearing a steely 
smile, and his blue eyes were like chips of ice. “Two 
Hogwarts champions? I don’t remember anyone 
telling me the host school is allowed two champions 
— or have I not read the rules carefully enough?” 

He gave a short and nasty laugh. 

“C’est impossible,” said Madame Maxime, whose 
enormous hand with its many superb opals was 
resting upon Fleur’s shoulder. “ ’Ogwarts cannot ’ave 
two champions. It is most injust.” 

“We were under the impression that your Age Line 
would keep out younger contestants, Dumbledore,” 
said Karkaroff, his steely smile still in place, though 
his eyes were colder than ever. “Otherwise, we would, 
of course, have brought along a wider selection of 
candidates from our own schools.” 

“It’s no one’s fault but Potter’s, Karkaroff,” said Snape 
softly. His black eyes were alight with malice. “Don’t 
go blaming Dumbledore for Potter’s determination to 
break rules. He has been crossing lines ever since he 
arrived here — ” 

“Thank you, Severus,” said Dumbledore firmly, and 
Snape went quiet, though his eyes still glinted 
malevolently through his curtain of greasy black hair. 

Professor Dumbledore was now looking down at 
Harry, who looked right back at him, trying to discern 
the expression of the eyes behind the half-moon 
spectacles. 



Page | 305 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Did you put your name into the Goblet of Fire, 
Harry?” he asked calmly. 

“No,” said Harry. He was very aware of everybody 
watching him closely. Snape made a soft noise of 
impatient disbelief in the shadows. 

“Did you ask an older student to put it into the Goblet 
of Fire for you?” said Professor Dumbledore, ignoring 
Snape. 

“No,” said Harry vehemently. 

“Ah, but of course ’e is lying!” cried Madame Maxime. 
Snape was now shaking his head, his lip curling. 

“He could not have crossed the Age Line,” said 
Professor McGonagall sharply. “I am sure we are all 
agreed on that — ” 

“Dumbly-dorr must ’ave made a mistake wiz ze line,” 
said Madame Maxime, shrugging. 

“It is possible, of course,” said Dumbledore politely 

“Dumbledore, you know perfectly well you did not 
make a mistake!” said Professor McGonagall angrily. 
“Really, what nonsense! Harry could not have crossed 
the line himself, and as Professor Dumbledore 
believes that he did not persuade an older student to 
do it for him, I’m sure that should be good enough for 
everybody else!” 

She shot a very angry look at Professor Snape. 

“Mr. Crouch ... Mr. Bagman,” said Karkaroff, his voice 
unctuous once more, “you are our — er — objective 
judges. Surely you will agree that this is most 
irregular?” 

Page | 306 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Bagman wiped his round, boyish face with his 
handkerchief and looked at Mr. Crouch, who was 
standing outside the circle of the firelight, his face 
half hidden in shadow. He looked slightly eerie, the 
half darkness making him look much older, giving 
him an almost skull-like appearance. When he spoke, 
however, it was in his usual curt voice. 

“We must follow the rules, and the rules state clearly 
that those people whose names come out of the 
Goblet of Fire are bound to compete in the 
tournament.” 

“Well, Barty knows the rule book back to front,” said 
Bagman, beaming and turning back to Karkaroff and 
Madame Maxime, as though the matter was now 
closed. 

“I insist upon resubmitting the names of the rest of 
my students,” said Karkaroff. He had dropped his 
unctuous tone and his smile now. His face wore a 
very ugly look indeed. “You will set up the Goblet of 
Fire once more, and we will continue adding names 
until each school has two champions. It’s only fair, 
Dumbledore.” 

“But Karkaroff, it doesn’t work like that,” said 
Bagman. “The Goblet of Fire’s just gone out — it won’t 
reignite until the start of the next tournament — ” 

“ — in which Durmstrang will most certainly not be 
competing!” exploded Karkaroff. “After all our 
meetings and negotiations and compromises, I little 
expected something of this nature to occur! I have 
half a mind to leave now!” 

“Empty threat, Karkaroff,” growled a voice from near 
the door. “You can’t leave your champion now. He’s 
got to compete. They’ve all got to compete. Binding 

Page | 307 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




magical contract, like Dumbledore said. Convenient, 
eh?” 



Moody had just entered the room. He limped toward 
the fire, and with every right step he took, there was a 
loud clunk. 

“Convenient?” said Karkaroff. “I’m afraid I don’t 
understand you, Moody.” 

Harry could tell he was trying to sound disdainful, as 
though what Moody was saying was barely worth his 
notice, but his hands gave him away; they had balled 
themselves into fists. 

“Don’t you?” said Moody quietly. “It’s very simple, 
Karkaroff. Someone put Potter’s name in that goblet 
knowing he’d have to compete if it came out.” 

“Evidently, someone ’oo wished to give ’Ogwarts two 
bites at ze apple!” said Madame Maxime. 

“I quite agree, Madame Maxime,” said Karkaroff, 
bowing to her. “I shall be lodging complaints with the 
Ministry of Magic and the International Confederation 
of Wizards — ” 

“If anyone’s got reason to complain, it’s Potter,” 
growled Moody, “but ... funny thing ... I don’t hear 
him saying a word. ...” 

“Why should ’e complain?” burst out Fleur Delacour, 
stamping her foot. “ ’E ’as ze chance to compete, ’asn’t 
’e? We ’ave all been ’oping to be chosen for weeks and 
weeks! Ze honor for our schools! A thousand Galleons 
in prize money — zis is a chance many would die for!” 

“Maybe someone’s hoping Potter is going to die for it,” 
said Moody, with the merest trace of a growl. 

Page | 308 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




An extremely tense silence followed these words. Ludo 
Bagman, who was looking very anxious indeed, 
bounced nervously up and down on his feet and said, 
“Moody, old man ... what a thing to say!” 

“We all know Professor Moody considers the morning 
wasted if he hasn’t discovered six plots to murder him 
before lunchtime,” said Karkaroff loudly. “Apparently 
he is now teaching his students to fear assassination 
too. An odd quality in a Defense Against the Dark 
Arts teacher, Dumbledore, but no doubt you had your 
reasons.” 

“Imagining things, am I?” growled Moody. “Seeing 
things, eh? It was a skilled witch or wizard who put 
the boy’s name in that goblet. ...” 

“Ah, what evidence is zere of zat?” said Madame 
Maxime, throwing up her huge hands. 

“Because they hoodwinked a very powerful magical 
object!” said Moody. “It would have needed an 
exceptionally strong Confundus Charm to bamboozle 
that goblet into forgetting that only three schools 
compete in the tournament. ... I’m guessing they 
submitted Potter’s name under a fourth school, to 
make sure he was the only one in his category. ...” 

“You seem to have given this a great deal of thought, 
Moody,” said Karkaroff coldly, “and a very ingenious 
theory it is — though of course, I heard you recently 
got it into your head that one of your birthday 
presents contained a cunningly disguised basilisk 
egg, and smashed it to pieces before realizing it was a 
carriage clock. So you’ll understand if we don’t take 
you entirely seriously. ...” 

“There are those who’ll turn innocent occasions to 
their advantage,” Moody retorted in a menacing voice. 

Page | 309 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s my job to think the way Dark wizards do, 
Karkaroff — as you ought to remember. ...” 

“Alas tor!” said Dumbledore warningly. Harry 
wondered for a moment whom he was speaking to, 
but then realized “Mad-Eye” could hardly be Moody’s 
real first name. Moody fell silent, though still 
surveying Karkaroff with satisfaction — Karkaroff’s 
face was burning. 

“How this situation arose, we do not know,” said 
Dumbledore, speaking to everyone gathered in the 
room. “It seems to me, however, that we have no 
choice but to accept it. Both Cedric and Harry have 
been chosen to compete in the Tournament. This, 
therefore, they will do. ...” 

“Ah, but Dumbly-dorr — ” 

“My dear Madame Maxime, if you have an alternative, 

I would be delighted to hear it.” 

Dumbledore waited, but Madame Maxime did not 
speak, she merely glared. She wasn’t the only one 
either. Snape looked furious; Karkaroff livid; Bagman, 
however, looked rather excited. 

“Well, shall we crack on, then?” he said, rubbing his 
hands together and smiling around the room. “Got to 
give our champions their instructions, haven’t we? 
Barty, want to do the honors?” 

Mr. Crouch seemed to come out of a deep reverie. 

“Yes,” he said, “instructions. Yes ... the first task ...” 

He moved forward into the firelight. Close up, Harry 
thought he looked ill. There were dark shadows 
beneath his eyes and a thin, papery look about his 

Page | 310 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




wrinkled skin that had not been there at the 
Quidditch World Cup. 

“The first task is designed to test your daring,” he told 
Harry, Cedric, Fleur, and Viktor, “so we are not going 
to be telling you what it is. Courage in the face of the 
unknown is an important quality in a wizard . . . very 
important. ... 

“The first task will take place on November the 
twenty-fourth, in front of the other students and the 
panel of judges. 

“The champions are not permitted to ask for or accept 
help of any kind from their teachers to complete the 
tasks in the tournament. The champions will face the 
first challenge armed only with their wands. They will 
receive information about the second task when the 
first is over. Owing to the demanding and time- 
consuming nature of the tournament, the champions 
are exempted from end-of-year tests.” 

Mr. Crouch turned to look at Dumbledore. 

“I think that’s all, is it, Albus?” 

“I think so,” said Dumbledore, who was looking at Mr. 
Crouch with mild concern. “Are you sure you 
wouldn’t like to stay at Hogwarts tonight, Barty?” 

“No, Dumbledore, I must get back to the Ministry,” 
said Mr. Crouch. “It is a very busy, very difficult time 
at the moment. ... I’ve left young Weatherby in 
charge. ... Very enthusiastic ... a little 
overenthusiastic, if truth be told. ...” 

“You’ll come and have a drink before you go, at 
least?” said Dumbledore. 



Page | 311 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on, Barty, I’m staying!” said Bagman brightly. 
“It’s all happening at Hogwarts now, you know, much 
more exciting here than at the office!” 

“I think not, Ludo,” said Crouch with a touch of his 
old impatience. 

“Professor Karkaroff — Madame Maxime — a 
nightcap?” said Dumbledore. 

But Madame Maxime had already put her arm 
around Fleur’s shoulders and was leading her swiftly 
out of the room. Harry could hear them both talking 
very fast in French as they went off into the Great 
Hall. Karkaroff beckoned to Krum, and they, too, 
exited, though in silence. 

“Harry, Cedric, I suggest you go up to bed,” said 
Dumbledore, smiling at both of them. “I am sure 
Gryffindor and Hufflepuff are waiting to celebrate with 
you, and it would be a shame to deprive them of this 
excellent excuse to make a great deal of mess and 
noise.” 

Harry glanced at Cedric, who nodded, and they left 
together. 

The Great Hall was deserted now; the candles had 
burned low, giving the jagged smiles of the pumpkins 
an eerie, flickering quality. 

“So,” said Cedric, with a slight smile. “We’re playing 
against each other again!” 

“I s’pose,” said Harry. He really couldn’t think of 
anything to say. The inside of his head seemed to be 
in complete disarray, as though his brain had been 
ransacked. 



Page | 312 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“So ... tell me ...” said Cedric as they reached the 
entrance hall, which was now lit only by torches in 
the absence of the Goblet of Fire. “How did you get 
your name in?” 

“I didn’t,” said Harry, staring up at him. “I didn’t put 
it in. I was telling the truth.” 

“Ah ... okay,” said Cedric. Harry could tell Cedric 
didn’t believe him. “Well ... see you, then.” 

Instead of going up the marble staircase, Cedric 
headed for a door to its right. Harry stood listening to 
him going down the stone steps beyond it, then, 
slowly, he started to climb the marble ones. 

Was anyone except Ron and Hermione going to 
believe him, or would they all think he’d put himself 
in for the tournament? Yet how could anyone think 
that, when he was facing competitors who’d had three 
years’ more magical education than he had — when 
he was now facing tasks that not only sounded very 
dangerous, but which were to be performed in front of 
hundreds of people? Yes, he’d thought about it ... he’d 
fantasized about it ... but it had been a joke, really, 
an idle sort of dream ... he’d never really, seriously 
considered entering. ... 

But someone else had considered it ... someone else 
had wanted him in the tournament, and had made 
sure he was entered. Why? To give him a treat? He 
didn’t think so, somehow. ... 

To see him make a fool of himself? Well, they were 
likely to get their wish. ... 

But to get him killed? 



Page | 313 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Was Moody just being his usual paranoid self? 
Couldn’t someone have put Harry’s name in the 
goblet as a trick, a practical joke? Did anyone really 
want him dead? 

Harry was able to answer that at once. Yes, someone 
wanted him dead, someone had wanted him dead 
ever since he had been a year old ... Lord Voldemort. 
But how could Voldemort have ensured that Harry’s 
name got into the Goblet of Fire? Voldemort was 
supposed to be far away, in some distant country, in 
hiding, alone ... feeble and powerless. ... 

Yet in that dream he had had, just before he had 
awoken with his scar hurting, Voldemort had not 
been alone ... he had been talking to Wormtail ... 
plotting Harry’s murder. . . . 

Harry got a shock to find himself facing the Fat Lady 
already. He had barely noticed where his feet were 
carrying him. It was also a surprise to see that she 
was not alone in her frame. The wizened witch who 
had flitted into her neighbor’s painting when he had 
joined the champions downstairs was now sitting 
smugly beside the Fat Lady. She must have dashed 
through every picture lining seven staircases to reach 
here before him. Both she and the Fat Lady were 
looking down at him with the keenest interest. 

“Well, well, well,” said the Fat Lady, “Violet’s just told 
me everything. Who’s just been chosen as school 
champion, then?” 

“Balderdash,” said Harry dully. 

“It most certainly isn’t!” said the pale witch 
indignantly. 



Page | 314 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No, no, Vi, it’s the password,” said the Fat Lady 
soothingly, and she swung forward on her hinges to 
let Harry into the common room. 

The blast of noise that met Harry’s ears when the 
portrait opened almost knocked him backward. Next 
thing he knew, he was being wrenched inside the 
common room by about a dozen pairs of hands, and 
was facing the whole of Gryffindor House, all of whom 
were screaming, applauding, and whistling. 

“You should’ve told us you’d entered!” bellowed Fred; 
he looked half annoyed, half deeply impressed. 

“How did you do it without getting a beard? Brilliant!” 
roared George. 

“I didn’t,” Harry said. “I don’t know how — ” 

But Angelina had now swooped down upon him; “Oh 
if it couldn’t be me, at least it’s a Gryffindor — ” 

“You’ll be able to pay back Diggory for that last 
Quidditch match, Harry!” shrieked Katie Bell, another 
of the Gryffindor Chasers. 

“We’ve got food, Harry, come and have some — ” 

“I’m not hungry, I had enough at the feast — ” 

But nobody wanted to hear that he wasn’t hungry; 
nobody wanted to hear that he hadn’t put his name in 
the goblet; not one single person seemed to have 
noticed that he wasn’t at all in the mood to celebrate. 
... Lee Jordan had unearthed a Gryffindor banner 
from somewhere, and he insisted on draping it 
around Harry like a cloak. Harry couldn’t get away; 
whenever he tried to sidle over to the staircase up to 
the dormitories, the crowd around him closed ranks, 
Page | 315 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




forcing another butterbeer on him, stuffing crisps and 
peanuts into his hands. ... Everyone wanted to know 
how he had done it, how he had tricked Dumbledore’s 
Age Line and managed to get his name into the 
goblet. ... 

“I didn’t,” he said, over and over again, “I don’t know 
how it happened.” 

But for all the notice anyone took, he might just as 
well not have answered at all. 

“I’m tired!” he bellowed finally, after nearly half an 
hour. “No, seriously, George — I’m going to bed — ” 

He wanted more than anything to find Ron and 
Hermione, to find a bit of sanity, but neither of them 
seemed to be in the common room. Insisting that he 
needed to sleep, and almost flattening the little 
Creevey brothers as they attempted to waylay him at 
the foot of the stairs, Harry managed to shake 
everyone off and climb up to the dormitory as fast as 
he could. 

To his great relief, he found Ron was lying on his bed 
in the otherwise empty dormitory, still fully dressed. 
He looked up when Harry slammed the door behind 
him. 

“Where ’ve you been?” Harry said. 

“Oh hello,” said Ron. 

He was grinning, but it was a very odd, strained sort 
of grin. Harry suddenly became aware that he was 
still wearing the scarlet Gryffindor banner that Lee 
had tied around him. He hastened to take it off, but it 
was knotted very tightly. Ron lay on the bed without 
moving, watching Harry struggle to remove it. 

Page | 316 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




“So,” he said, when Harry had finally removed the 
banner and thrown it into a corner. 

“Congratulations . ” 

“What d’you mean, congratulations?” said Harry, 
staring at Ron. There was definitely something wrong 
with the way Ron was smiling: It was more like a 
grimace. 

“Well ... no one else got across the Age Line,” said 
Ron. “Not even Fred and George. What did you use — 
the Invisibility Cloak?” 

“The Invisibility Cloak wouldn’t have got me over that 
line,” said Harry slowly. 

“Oh right,” said Ron. “I thought you might’ve told me 
if it was the cloak ... because it would’ve covered both 
of us, wouldn’t it? But you found another way, did 
you?” 

“Listen,” said Harry, “I didn’t put my name in that 
goblet. Someone else must’ve done it.” 

Ron raised his eyebrows. 

“What would they do that for?” 

“I dunno,” said Harry. He felt it would sound very 
melodramatic to say, “To kill me.” 

Ron’s eyebrows rose so high that they were in danger 
of disappearing into his hair. 

“It’s okay, you know, you can tell me the truth,” he 
said. “If you don’t want everyone else to know, fine, 
but I don’t know why you’re bothering to lie, you 
didn’t get into trouble for it, did you? That friend of 
the Fat Lady’s, that Violet, she’s already told us all 
Page | 317 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore’s letting you enter. A thousand Galleons 
prize money, eh? And you don’t have to do end-of- 
year tests either. ...” 

“I didn’t put my name in that goblet!” said Harry, 
starting to feel angry. 

“Yeah, okay,” said Ron, in exactly the same sceptical 
tone as Cedric. “Only you said this morning you’d 
have done it last night, and no one would’ve seen you. 
... I’m not stupid, you know.” 

“You’re doing a really good impression of it,” Harry 
snapped. 

“Yeah?” said Ron, and there was no trace of a grin, 
forced or otherwise, on his face now. “You want to get 
to bed, Harry. I expect you’ll need to be up early 
tomorrow for a photo-call or something.” 

He wrenched the hangings shut around his four- 
poster, leaving Harry standing there by the door, 
staring at the dark red velvet curtains, now hiding 
one of the few people he had been sure would believe 
him. 



Page | 318 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE WEIGHING OF THE WANDS 

When Harry woke up on Sunday morning, it took him 
a moment to remember why he felt so miserable and 
worried. Then the memory of the previous night rolled 
over him. He sat up and ripped back the curtains of 
his own four-poster, intending to talk to Ron, to force 
Ron to believe him — only to find that Ron’s bed was 
empty; he had obviously gone down to breakfast. 

Harry dressed and went down the spiral staircase into 
the common room. The moment he appeared, the 
people who had already finished breakfast broke into 
applause again. The prospect of going down into the 
Great Hall and facing the rest of the Gryffindors, all 
treating him like some sort of hero, was not inviting; 
it was that, however, or stay here and allow himself to 
be cornered by the Creevey brothers, who were both 
beckoning frantically to him to join them. He walked 
resolutely over to the portrait hole, pushed it open, 
climbed out of it, and found himself face-to-face with 
Hermione. 



Page | 319 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“Hello,” she said, holding up a stack of toast, which 
she was carrying in a napkin. “I brought you this. ... 
Want to go for a walk?” 

“Good idea,” said Harry gratefully. 

They went downstairs, crossed the entrance hall 
quickly without looking in at the Great Hall, and were 
soon striding across the lawn toward the lake, where 
the Durmstrang ship was moored, reflected blackly in 
the water. It was a chilly morning, and they kept 
moving, munching their toast, as Harry told 
Hermione exactly what had happened after he had left 
the Gryffindor table the night before. To his immense 
relief, Hermione accepted his story without question. 

“Well, of course I knew you hadn’t entered yourself,” 
she said when he’d finished telling her about the 
scene in the chamber off the Hall. “The look on your 
face when Dumbledore read out your name! But the 
question is, who did put it in? Because Moody’s right, 
Harry ... I don’t think any student could have done it 
... they’d never be able to fool the Goblet, or get over 
Dumbledore ’s — ” 

“Have you seen Ron?” Harry interrupted. 

Hermione hesitated. 

“Erm ... yes ... he was at breakfast,” she said. 

“Does he still think I entered myself?” 

“Well ... no, I don’t think so ... not really,” said 
Hermione awkwardly. 

“What’s that supposed to mean, ‘not really’?” 



Page | 320 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh Harry, isn’t it obvious?” Hermione said 
despairingly. “He’s jealous!” 



“Jealous?” Harry said incredulously. “Jealous of 
what? He wants to make a prat of himself in front of 
the whole school, does he?” 

“Look,” said Hermione patiently, “it’s always you who 
gets all the attention, you know it is. I know it’s not 
your fault,” she added quickly, seeing Harry open his 
mouth furiously. “I know you don’t ask for it ... but — 
well — you know, Ron’s got all those brothers to 
compete against at home, and you’re his best friend, 
and you’re really famous — he’s always shunted to 
one side whenever people see you, and he puts up 
with it, and he never mentions it, but I suppose this 
is just one time too many. ...” 

“Great,” said Harry bitterly. “Really great. Tell him 
from me I’ll swap any time he wants. Tell him from 
me he’s welcome to it. ... People gawping at my 
forehead everywhere I go. ...” 

“I’m not telling him anything,” Hermione said shortly. 
“Tell him yourself. It’s the only way to sort this out.” 

“I’m not running around after him trying to make him 
grow up!” Harry said, so loudly that several owls in a 
nearby tree took flight in alarm. “Maybe he’ll believe 
I’m not enjoying myself once I’ve got my neck broken 
or — ” 



“That’s not funny,” said Hermione quietly. “That’s not 
funny at all.” She looked extremely anxious. “Harry, 
I’ve been thinking — you know what we’ve got to do, 
don’t you? Straight away, the moment we get back to 
the castle?” 

“Yeah, give Ron a good kick up the — ” 

Page | 321 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Write to Sirius. You’ve got to tell him what’s 
happened. He asked you to keep him posted on 
everything that’s going on at Hogwarts. ... It’s almost 
as if he expected something like this to happen. I 
brought some parchment and a quill out with me — ” 

“Come off it,” said Harry, looking around to check 
that they couldn’t be overheard, but the grounds were 
quite deserted. “He came back to the country just 
because my scar twinged. He’ll probably come 
bursting right into the castle if I tell him someone’s 
entered me in the Triwizard Tournament — ” 

“He’d want you to tell him,” said Hermione sternly. 
“He’s going to find out anyway — ” 

“How?” 

“Harry, this isn’t going to be kept quiet,” said 
Hermione, very seriously. “This tournament’s famous, 
and you’re famous. Ill be really surprised if there isn’t 
anything in the Daily Prophet about you competing. . . . 
You’re already in half the books about You-Know- 
Who, you know ... and Sirius would rather hear it 
from you, I know he would.” 

“Okay, okay, I’ll write to him,” said Harry, throwing 
his last piece of toast into the lake. They both stood 
and watched it floating there for a moment, before a 
large tentacle rose out of the water and scooped it 
beneath the surface. Then they returned to the castle. 

“Whose owl am I going to use?” Harry said as they 
climbed the stairs. “He told me not to use Hedwig 
again.” 

“Ask Ron if you can borrow — ” 

“I’m not asking Ron for anything,” Harry said flatly. 

Page | 322 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, borrow one of the school owls, then, anyone 
can use them,” said Hermione. 

They went up to the Owlery Hermione gave Harry a 
piece of parchment, a quill, and a bottle of ink, then 
strolled around the long lines of perches, looking at 
all the different owls, while Harry sat down against a 
wall and wrote his letter. 

Dear Sirius, 

You told me to keep you posted on what’s happening 
at Hogwarts, so here goes — I don’t know if you’ve 
heard, but the Tri-wizard Tournament’s happening this 
year and on Saturday night I got picked as a fourth 
champion. I don’t know who put my name in the Goblet 
of Fire, because I didn’t The other Hogwarts champion 
is Cedric Diggory, from Hufflepuff 

He paused at this point, thinking. He had an urge to 
say something about the large weight of anxiety that 
seemed to have settled inside his chest since last 
night, but he couldn’t think how to translate this into 
words, so he simply dipped his quill back into the ink 
bottle and wrote, 

Hope you’re okay, and Buckbeak — Harry 



“Finished,” he told Hermione, getting to his feet and 
brushing straw off his robes. At this, Hedwig came 
fluttering down onto his shoulder and held out her 
leg. 

“I can’t use you,” Harry told her, looking around for 
the school owls. “I’ve got to use one of these. ...” 



Page | 323 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hedwig gave a very loud hoot and took off so suddenly 
that her talons cut into his shoulder. She kept her 
back to Harry all the time he was tying his letter to 
the leg of a large barn owl. When the barn owl had 
flown off, Harry reached out to stroke Hedwig, but she 
clicked her beak furiously and soared up into the 
rafters out of reach. 

“First Ron, then you,” said Harry angrily. “ This isn’t 
my fault.” 

If Harry had thought that matters would improve 
once everyone got used to the idea of him being 
champion, the following day showed him how 
mistaken he was. He could no longer avoid the rest of 
the school once he was back at lessons — and it was 
clear that the rest of the school, just like the 
Gryffindors, thought Harry had entered himself for 
the tournament. Unlike the Gryffindors, however, 
they did not seem impressed. 

The Hufflepuffs, who were usually on excellent terms 
with the Gryffindors, had turned remarkably cold 
toward the whole lot of them. One Herbology lesson 
was enough to demonstrate this. It was plain that the 
Hufflepuffs felt that Harry had stolen their 
champion’s glory; a feeling exacerbated, perhaps, by 
the fact that Hufflepuff House very rarely got any 
glory, and that Cedric was one of the few who had 
ever given them any, having beaten Gryffindor once at 
Quidditch. Ernie Macmillan and Justin Finch- 
Fletchley, with whom Harry normally got on very well, 
did not talk to him even though they were repotting 
Bouncing Bulbs at the same tray — though they did 
laugh rather unpleasantly when one of the Bouncing 
Bulbs wriggled free from Harry’s grip and smacked 
him hard in the face. Ron wasn’t talking to Harry 
either. Hermione sat between them, making very 
forced conversation, but though both answered her 
Page | 324 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




normally, they avoided making eye contact with each 
other. Harry thought even Professor Sprout seemed 
distant with him — but then, she was Head of 
Hufflepuff House. 

He would have been looking forward to seeing Hagrid 
under normal circumstances, but Care of Magical 
Creatures meant seeing the Slytherins too — the first 
time he would come face-to-face with them since 
becoming champion. 

Predictably, Malfoy arrived at Hagrid ’s cabin with his 
familiar sneer firmly in place. 

“Ah, look, boys, it’s the champion,” he said to Crabbe 
and Goyle the moment he got within earshot of Harry. 
“Got your autograph books? Better get a signature 
now, because I doubt he’s going to be around much 
longer. ... Half the Triwizard champions have died ... 
how long d’you reckon you’re going to last, Potter? 

Ten minutes into the first task’s my bet.” 

Crabbe and Goyle guffawed sycophantically, but 
Malfoy had to stop there, because Hagrid emerged 
from the back of his cabin balancing a teetering tower 
of crates, each containing a very large Blast-Ended 
Skrewt. To the class’s horror, Hagrid proceeded to 
explain that the reason the skrewts had been killing 
one another was an excess of pent-up energy, and 
that the solution would be for each student to fix a 
leash on a skrewt and take it for a short walk. The 
only good thing about this plan was that it distracted 
Malfoy completely. 

“Take this thing for a walk?” he repeated in disgust, 
staring into one of the boxes. “And where exactly are 
we supposed to fix the leash? Around the sting, the 
blasting end, or the sucker?” 



Page | 325 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Roun’ the middle,” said Hagrid, demonstrating. “Er 
— yeh might want ter put on yer dragon-hide gloves, 
jus’ as an extra precaution, like. Harry — you come 
here an’ help me with this big one. ...” 

Hagrid’s real intention, however, was to talk to Harry 
away from the rest of the class. He waited until 
everyone else had set off with their skrewts, then 
turned to Harry and said, very seriously, “So — yer 
competin’, Harry. In the tournament. School 
champion.” 

