
      CHAPTER VIII DANCE AT ROGER’S

      Roger’s house in Prince’s Gardens was brilliantly alight. Large
      numbers of wax candles had been collected and placed in cut-glass
      chandeliers, and the parquet floor of the long, double
      drawing-room reflected these constellations. An appearance of
      real spaciousness had been secured by moving out all the
      furniture on to the upper landings, and enclosing the room with
      those strange appendages of civilization known as “rout” seats.
      In a remote corner, embowered in palms, was a cottage piano, with
      a copy of the “Kensington Coil” open on the music-stand.

      Roger had objected to a band. He didn’t see in the least what
      they wanted with a band; he wouldn’t go to the expense, and there
      was an end of it. Francie (her mother, whom Roger had long since
      reduced to chronic dyspepsia, went to bed on such occasions), had
      been obliged to content herself with supplementing the piano by a
      young man who played the cornet, and she so arranged with palms
      that anyone who did not look into the heart of things might
      imagine there were several musicians secreted there. She made up
      her mind to tell them to play loud—there was a lot of music in a
      cornet, if the man would only put his soul into it.

      In the more cultivated American tongue, she was “through” at
      last—through that tortuous labyrinth of make-shifts, which must
      be traversed before fashionable display can be combined with the
      sound economy of a Forsyte. Thin but brilliant, in her
      maize-coloured frock with much tulle about the shoulders, she
      went from place to place, fitting on her gloves, and casting her
      eye over it all.

      To the hired butler (for Roger only kept maids) she spoke about
      the wine. Did he quite understand that Mr. Forsyte wished a dozen
      bottles of the champagne from Whiteley’s to be put out? But if
      that were finished (she did not suppose it would be, most of the
      ladies would drink water, no doubt), but if it were, there was
      the champagne cup, and he must do the best he could with that.

      She hated having to say this sort of thing to a butler, it was so
      _infra dig.;_ but what could you do with father? Roger, indeed,
      after making himself consistently disagreeable about the dance,
      would come down presently, with his fresh colour and bumpy
      forehead, as though he had been its promoter; and he would smile,
      and probably take the prettiest woman in to supper; and at two
      o’clock, just as they were getting into the swing, he would go up
      secretly to the musicians and tell them to play “God Save the
      Queen,” and go away.

      Francie devoutly hoped he might soon get tired, and slip off to
      bed.

      The three or four devoted girl friends who were staying in the
      house for this dance had partaken with her, in a small, abandoned
      room upstairs, of tea and cold chicken-legs, hurriedly served;
      the men had been sent out to dine at Eustace’s Club, it being
      felt that they must be fed up.

      Punctually on the stroke of nine arrived Mrs. Small alone. She
      made elaborate apologies for the absence of Timothy, omitting all
      mention of Aunt Hester, who, at the last minute, had said she
      could not be bothered. Francie received her effusively, and
      placed her on a rout seat, where she left her, pouting and
      solitary in lavender-coloured satin—the first time she had worn
      colour since Aunt Ann’s death.

      The devoted maiden friends came now from their rooms, each by
      magic arrangement in a differently coloured frock, but all with
      the same liberal allowance of tulle on the shoulders and at the
      bosom—for they were, by some fatality, lean to a girl. They were
      all taken up to Mrs. Small. None stayed with her more than a few
      seconds, but clustering together talked and twisted their
      programmes, looking secretly at the door for the first appearance
      of a man.

      Then arrived in a group a number of Nicholases, always
      punctual—the fashion up Ladbroke Grove way; and close behind them
      Eustace and his men, gloomy and smelling rather of smoke.

      Three or four of Francie’s lovers now appeared, one after the
      other; she had made each promise to come early. They were all
      clean-shaven and sprightly, with that peculiar kind of young-man
      sprightliness which had recently invaded Kensington; they did not
      seem to mind each other’s presence in the least, and wore their
      ties bunching out at the ends, white waistcoats, and socks with
      clocks. All had handkerchiefs concealed in their cuffs. They
      moved buoyantly, each armoured in professional gaiety, as though
      he had come to do great deeds. Their faces when they danced, far
      from wearing the traditional solemn look of the dancing
      Englishman, were irresponsible, charming, suave; they bounded,
      twirling their partners at great pace, without pedantic attention
      to the rhythm of the music.

      At other dancers they looked with a kind of airy scorn—they, the
      light brigade, the heroes of a hundred Kensington “hops”—from
      whom alone could the right manner and smile and step be hoped.

      After this the stream came fast; chaperones silting up along the
      wall facing the entrance, the volatile element swelling the eddy
      in the larger room.

      Men were scarce, and wallflowers wore their peculiar, pathetic
      expression, a patient, sourish smile which seemed to say: “Oh,
      no! don’t mistake me, _I_ know you are not coming up to me. I can
      hardly expect that!” And Francie would plead with one of her
      lovers, or with some callow youth: “Now, to please me, do let me
      introduce you to Miss Pink; such a nice girl, really!” and she
      would bring him up, and say: “Miss Pink—Mr. Gathercole. Can you
      spare him a dance?” Then Miss Pink, smiling her forced smile,
      colouring a little, answered: “Oh! I think so!” and screening her
      empty card, wrote on it the name of Gathercole, spelling it
      passionately in the district that he proposed, about the second
      extra.

      But when the youth had murmured that it was hot, and passed, she
      relapsed into her attitude of hopeless expectation, into her
      patient, sourish smile.

      Mothers, slowly fanning their faces, watched their daughters, and
      in their eyes could be read all the story of those daughters’
      fortunes. As for themselves, to sit hour after hour, dead tired,
      silent, or talking spasmodically—what did it matter, so long as
      the girls were having a good time! But to see them neglected and
      passed by! Ah! they smiled, but their eyes stabbed like the eyes
      of an offended swan; they longed to pluck young Gathercole by the
      slack of his dandified breeches, and drag him to their
      daughters—the jackanapes!

      And all the cruelties and hardness of life, its pathos and
      unequal chances, its conceit, self-forgetfulness, and patience,
      were presented on the battle-field of this Kensington ball-room.

      Here and there, too, lovers—not lovers like Francie’s, a peculiar
      breed, but simply lovers—trembling, blushing, silent, sought each
      other by flying glances, sought to meet and touch in the mazes of
      the dance, and now and again dancing together, struck some
      beholder by the light in their eyes.

      Not a second before ten o’clock came the Jameses—Emily, Rachel,
      Winifred (Dartie had been left behind, having on a former
      occasion drunk too much of Roger’s champagne), and Cicely, the
      youngest, making her debut; behind them, following in a hansom
      from the paternal mansion where they had dined, Soames and Irene.

      All these ladies had shoulder-straps and no tulle—thus showing at
      once, by a bolder exposure of flesh, that they came from the more
      fashionable side of the Park.

      Soames, sidling back from the contact of the dancers, took up a
      position against the wall. Guarding himself with his pale smile,
      he stood watching. Waltz after waltz began and ended, couple
      after couple brushed by with smiling lips, laughter, and snatches
      of talk; or with set lips, and eyes searching the throng; or
      again, with silent, parted lips, and eyes on each other. And the
      scent of festivity, the odour of flowers, and hair, of essences
      that women love, rose suffocatingly in the heat of the summer
      night.

      Silent, with something of scorn in his smile, Soames seemed to
      notice nothing; but now and again his eyes, finding that which
      they sought, would fix themselves on a point in the shifting
      throng, and the smile die off his lips.

      He danced with no one. Some fellows danced with their wives; his
      sense of “form” had never permitted him to dance with Irene since
      their marriage, and the God of the Forsytes alone can tell
      whether this was a relief to him or not.

      She passed, dancing with other men, her dress, iris-coloured,
      floating away from her feet. She danced well; he was tired of
      hearing women say with an acid smile: “How beautifully your wife
      dances, Mr. Forsyte—it’s quite a pleasure to watch her!” Tired of
      answering them with his sidelong glance: “You think so?”

      A young couple close by flirted a fan by turns, making an
      unpleasant draught. Francie and one of her lovers stood near.
      They were talking of love.

      He heard Roger’s voice behind, giving an order about supper to a
      servant. Everything was very second-class! He wished that he had
      not come! He had asked Irene whether she wanted him; she had
      answered with that maddening smile of hers “Oh, no!”

      Why _had_ he come? For the last quarter of an hour he had not
      even seen her. Here was George advancing with his Quilpish face;
      it was too late to get out of his way.

      “Have you seen ‘The Buccaneer’.” said this licensed wag; “he’s on
      the warpath—hair cut and everything!”

      Soames said he had not, and crossing the room, half-empty in an
      interval of the dance, he went out on the balcony, and looked
      down into the street.

      A carriage had driven up with late arrivals, and round the door
      hung some of those patient watchers of the London streets who
      spring up to the call of light or music; their faces, pale and
      upturned above their black and rusty figures, had an air of
      stolid watching that annoyed Soames. Why were they allowed to
      hang about; why didn’t the bobby move them on?

      But the policeman took no notice of them; his feet were planted
      apart on the strip of crimson carpet stretched across the
      pavement; his face, under the helmet, wore the same stolid,
      watching look as theirs.

      Across the road, through the railings, Soames could see the
      branches of trees shining, faintly stirring in the breeze, by the
      gleam of the street lamps; beyond, again, the upper lights of the
      houses on the other side, so many eyes looking down on the quiet
      blackness of the garden; and over all, the sky, that wonderful
      London sky, dusted with the innumerable reflection of countless
      lamps; a dome woven over between its stars with the refraction of
      human needs and human fancies—immense mirror of pomp and misery
      that night after night stretches its kindly mocking over miles of
      houses and gardens, mansions and squalor, over Forsytes,
      policemen, and patient watchers in the streets.

      Soames turned away, and, hidden in the recess, gazed into the
      lighted room. It was cooler out there. He saw the new arrivals,
      June and her grandfather, enter. What had made them so late? They
      stood by the doorway. They looked fagged. Fancy Uncle Jolyon
      turning out at this time of night! Why hadn’t June come to Irene,
      as she usually did, and it occurred to him suddenly that he had
      seen nothing of June for a long time now.

      Watching her face with idle malice, he saw it change, grow so
      pale that he thought she would drop, then flame out crimson.
      Turning to see at what she was looking, he saw his wife on
      Bosinney’s arm, coming from the conservatory at the end of the
      room. Her eyes were raised to his, as though answering some
      question he had asked, and he was gazing at her intently.

      Soames looked again at June. Her hand rested on old Jolyon’s arm;
      she seemed to be making a request. He saw a surprised look on his
      uncle’s face; they turned and passed through the door out of his
      sight.

      The music began again—a waltz—and, still as a statue in the
      recess of the window, his face unmoved, but no smile on his lips,
      Soames waited. Presently, within a yard of the dark balcony, his
      wife and Bosinney passed. He caught the perfume of the gardenias
      that she wore, saw the rise and fall of her bosom, the languor in
      her eyes, her parted lips, and a look on her face that he did not
      know. To the slow, swinging measure they danced by, and it seemed
      to him that they clung to each other; he saw her raise her eyes,
      soft and dark, to Bosinney’s, and drop them again.

      Very white, he turned back to the balcony, and leaning on it,
      gazed down on the Square; the figures were still there looking up
      at the light with dull persistency, the policeman’s face, too,
      upturned, and staring, but he saw nothing of them. Below, a
      carriage drew up, two figures got in, and drove away....

      That evening June and old Jolyon sat down to dinner at the usual
      hour. The girl was in her customary high-necked frock, old Jolyon
      had not dressed.

      At breakfast she had spoken of the dance at Uncle Roger’s, she
      wanted to go; she had been stupid enough, she said, not to think
      of asking anyone to take her. It was too late now.

      Old Jolyon lifted his keen eyes. June was used to go to dances
      with Irene as a matter of course! and deliberately fixing his
      gaze on her, he asked: “Why don’t you get Irene?”

      No! June did not want to ask Irene; she would only go if—if her
      grandfather wouldn’t mind just for once for a little time!

      At her look, so eager and so worn, old Jolyon had grumblingly
      consented. He did not know what she wanted, he said, with going
      to a dance like this, a poor affair, he would wager; and she no
      more fit for it than a cat! What she wanted was sea air, and
      after his general meeting of the Globular Gold Concessions he was
      ready to take her. She didn’t want to go away? Ah! she would
      knock herself up! Stealing a mournful look at her, he went on
      with his breakfast.

      June went out early, and wandered restlessly about in the heat.
      Her little light figure that lately had moved so languidly about
      its business, was all on fire. She bought herself some flowers.
      She wanted—she meant to look her best. _He_ would be there! She
      knew well enough that he had a card. She would show him that she
      did not care. But deep down in her heart she resolved that
      evening to win him back. She came in flushed, and talked brightly
      all lunch; old Jolyon was there, and he was deceived.

      In the afternoon she was overtaken by a desperate fit of sobbing.
      She strangled the noise against the pillows of her bed, but when
      at last it ceased she saw in the glass a swollen face with
      reddened eyes, and violet circles round them. She stayed in the
      darkened room till dinner time.

      All through that silent meal the struggle went on within her.

      She looked so shadowy and exhausted that old Jolyon told “Sankey”
      to countermand the carriage, he would not have her going out....
      She was to go to bed! She made no resistance. She went up to her
      room, and sat in the dark. At ten o’clock she rang for her maid.

      “Bring some hot water, and go down and tell Mr. Forsyte that I
      feel perfectly rested. Say that if he’s too tired I can go to the
      dance by myself.”

      The maid looked askance, and June turned on her imperiously.
      “Go,” she said, “bring the hot water at once!”

      Her ball-dress still lay on the sofa, and with a sort of fierce
      care she arrayed herself, took the flowers in her hand, and went
      down, her small face carried high under its burden of hair. She
      could hear old Jolyon in his room as she passed.

      Bewildered and vexed, he was dressing. It was past ten, they
      would not get there till eleven; the girl was mad. But he dared
      not cross her—the expression of her face at dinner haunted him.

      With great ebony brushes he smoothed his hair till it shone like
      silver under the light; then he, too, came out on the gloomy
      staircase.

      June met him below, and, without a word, they went to the
      carriage.

      When, after that drive which seemed to last for ever, she entered
      Roger’s drawing-room, she disguised under a mask of resolution a
      very torment of nervousness and emotion. The feeling of shame at
      what might be called “running after him” was smothered by the
      dread that he might not be there, that she might not see him
      after all, and by that dogged resolve—somehow, she did not know
      how—to win him back.

      The sight of the ballroom, with its gleaming floor, gave her a
      feeling of joy, of triumph, for she loved dancing, and when
      dancing she floated, so light was she, like a strenuous, eager
      little spirit. He would surely ask her to dance, and if he danced
      with her it would all be as it was before. She looked about her
      eagerly.

      The sight of Bosinney coming with Irene from the conservatory,
      with that strange look of utter absorption on his face, struck
      her too suddenly. They had not seen—no one should see—her
      distress, not even her grandfather.

      She put her hand on Jolyon’s arm, and said very low:

      “I must go home, Gran; I feel ill.”

      He hurried her away, grumbling to himself that he had known how
      it would be.

      To her he said nothing; only when they were once more in the
      carriage, which by some fortunate chance had lingered near the
      door, he asked her: “What is it, my darling?”

      Feeling her whole slender body shaken by sobs, he was terribly
      alarmed. She must have Blank to-morrow. He would insist upon it.
      He could not have her like this.... There, there!

      June mastered her sobs, and squeezing his hand feverishly, she
      lay back in her corner, her face muffled in a shawl.

      He could only see her eyes, fixed and staring in the dark, but he
      did not cease to stroke her hand with his thin fingers.




      CHAPTER IX EVENING AT RICHMOND

      Other eyes besides the eyes of June and of Soames had seen “those
      two” (as Euphemia had already begun to call them) coming from the
      conservatory; other eyes had noticed the look on Bosinney’s face.

      There are moments when Nature reveals the passion hidden beneath
      the careless calm of her ordinary moods—violent spring flashing
      white on almond-blossom through the purple clouds; a snowy,
      moonlit peak, with its single star, soaring up to the passionate
      blue; or against the flames of sunset, an old yew-tree standing
      dark guardian of some fiery secret.

      There are moments, too, when in a picture-gallery, a work, noted
      by the casual spectator as “* * *Titian—remarkably fine,” breaks
      through the defences of some Forsyte better lunched perhaps than
      his fellows, and holds him spellbound in a kind of ecstasy. There
      are things, he feels—there are things here which—well, which are
      things. Something unreasoning, unreasonable, is upon him; when he
      tries to define it with the precision of a practical man, it
      eludes him, slips away, as the glow of the wine he has drunk is
      slipping away, leaving him cross, and conscious of his liver. He
      feels that he has been extravagant, prodigal of something; virtue
      has gone out of him. He did not desire this glimpse of what lay
      under the three stars of his catalogue. God forbid that he should
      know anything about the forces of Nature! God forbid that he
      should admit for a moment that there are such things! Once admit
      that, and where was he? One paid a shilling for entrance, and
      another for the programme.

      The look which June had seen, which other Forsytes had seen, was
      like the sudden flashing of a candle through a hole in some
      imaginary canvas, behind which it was being moved—the sudden
      flaming-out of a vague, erratic glow, shadowy and enticing. It
      brought home to onlookers the consciousness that dangerous forces
      were at work. For a moment they noticed it with pleasure, with
      interest, then felt they must not notice it at all.

      It supplied, however, the reason of Jun’s coming so late and
      disappearing again without dancing, without even shaking hands
      with her lover. She was ill, it was said, and no wonder.

      But here they looked at each other guiltily. They had no desire
      to spread scandal, no desire to be ill-natured. Who would have?
      And to outsiders no word was breathed, unwritten law keeping them
      silent.

      Then came the news that June had gone to the seaside with old
      Jolyon.

      He had carried her off to Broadstairs, for which place there was
      just then a feeling, Yarmouth having lost caste, in spite of
      Nicholas, and no Forsyte going to the sea without intending to
      have an air for his money such as would render him bilious in a
      week. That fatally aristocratic tendency of the first Forsyte to
      drink Madeira had left his descendants undoubtedly accessible.

      So June went to the sea. The family awaited developments; there
      was nothing else to do.

      But how far—how far had “those two” gone? How far were they going
      to go? Could they really be going at all? Nothing could surely
      come of it, for neither of them had any money. At the most a
      flirtation, ending, as all such attachments should, at the proper
      time.

      Soames’s sister, Winifred Dartie, who had imbibed with the
      breezes of Mayfair—she lived in Green Street—more fashionable
      principles in regard to matrimonial behaviour than were current,
      for instance, in Ladbroke Grove, laughed at the idea of there
      being anything in it. The “little thing”—Irene was taller than
      herself, and it was real testimony to the solid worth of a
      Forsyte that she should always thus be a “little thing”—the
      little thing was bored. Why shouldn’t she amuse herself? Soames
      was rather tiring; and as to Mr. Bosinney—only that buffoon
      George would have called him the Buccaneer—she maintained that he
      was very _chic_.

      This dictum—that Bosinney was _chic_—caused quite a sensation. It
      failed to convince. That he was “good-looking in a way” they were
      prepared to admit, but that anyone could call a man with his
      pronounced cheekbones, curious eyes, and soft felt hats _chic_
      was only another instance of Winifred’s extravagant way of
      running after something new.

      It was that famous summer when extravagance was fashionable, when
      the very earth was extravagant, chestnut-trees spread with
      blossom, and flowers drenched in perfume, as they had never been
      before; when roses blew in every garden; and for the swarming
      stars the nights had hardly space; when every day and all day
      long the sun, in full armour, swung his brazen shield above the
      Park, and people did strange things, lunching and dining in the
      open air. Unprecedented was the tale of cabs and carriages that
      streamed across the bridges of the shining river, bearing the
      upper-middle class in thousands to the green glories of Bushey,
      Richmond, Kew, and Hampton Court. Almost every family with any
      pretensions to be of the carriage-class paid one visit that year
      to the horse-chestnuts at Bushey, or took one drive amongst the
      Spanish chestnuts of Richmond Park. Bowling smoothly, if dustily,
      along, in a cloud of their own creation, they would stare
      fashionably at the antlered heads which the great slow deer
      raised out of a forest of bracken that promised to autumn lovers
      such cover as was never seen before. And now and again, as the
      amorous perfume of chestnut flowers and of fern was drifted too
      near, one would say to the other: “My dear! What a peculiar
      scent!”

      And the lime-flowers that year were of rare prime, near
      honey-coloured. At the corners of London squares they gave out,
      as the sun went down, a perfume sweeter than the honey bees had
      taken—a perfume that stirred a yearning unnamable in the hearts
      of Forsytes and their peers, taking the cool after dinner in the
      precincts of those gardens to which they alone had keys.

      And that yearning made them linger amidst the dim shapes of
      flower-beds in the failing daylight, made them turn, and turn,
      and turn again, as though lovers were waiting for them—waiting
      for the last light to die away under the shadow of the branches.

      Some vague sympathy evoked by the scent of the limes, some
      sisterly desire to see for herself, some idea of demonstrating
      the soundness of her dictum that there was “nothing in it”; or
      merely the craving to drive down to Richmond, irresistible that
      summer, moved the mother of the little Darties (of little
      Publius, of Imogen, Maud, and Benedict) to write the following
      note to her sister-in-law:

      “_June_ 30.

      “DEAR IRENE,
          “I hear that Soames is going to Henley tomorrow for the
          night. I thought it would be great fun if we made up a little
          party and drove down to, Richmond. Will you ask Mr. Bosinney,
          and I will get young Flippard.
          “Emily (they called their mother Emily—it was so chic) will
          lend us the carriage. I will call for you and your young man
          at seven o’clock.

      “Your affectionate sister,
      “WINIFRED DARTIE.

      “Montague believes the dinner at the Crown and Sceptre to be
      quite eatable.”

      Montague was Dartie’s second and better known name—his first
      being Moses; for he was nothing if not a man of the world.

      Her plan met with more opposition from Providence than so
      benevolent a scheme deserved. In the first place young Flippard
      wrote:

      “DEAR MRS. DARTIE,
      “Awfully sorry. Engaged two deep.

      “Yours,
      “AUGUSTUS FLIPPARD.”

      It was late to send into the by-ways and hedges to remedy this
      misfortune. With the promptitude and conduct of a mother,
      Winifred fell back on her husband. She had, indeed, the decided
      but tolerant temperament that goes with a good deal of profile,
      fair hair, and greenish eyes. She was seldom or never at a loss;
      or if at a loss, was always able to convert it into a gain.

      Dartie, too, was in good feather. Erotic had failed to win the
      Lancashire Cup. Indeed, that celebrated animal, owned as he was
      by a pillar of the turf, who had secretly laid many thousands
      against him, had not even started. The forty-eight hours that
      followed his scratching were among the darkest in Dartie’s life.

      Visions of James haunted him day and night. Black thoughts about
      Soames mingled with the faintest hopes. On the Friday night he
      got drunk, so greatly was he affected. But on Saturday morning
      the true Stock Exchange instinct triumphed within him. Owing some
      hundreds, which by no possibility could he pay, he went into town
      and put them all on Concertina for the Saltown Borough Handicap.

      As he said to Major Scrotton, with whom he lunched at the Iseeum:
      “That little Jew boy, Nathans, had given him the tip. He didn’t
      care a cursh. He wash in—a mucker. If it didn’t come up—well
      then, damme, the old man would have to pay!”

      A bottle of Pol Roger to his own cheek had given him a new
      contempt for James.

      It came up. Concertina was squeezed home by her neck—a terrible
      squeak! But, as Dartie said: There was nothing like pluck!

      He was by no means averse to the expedition to Richmond. He would
      “stand” it himself! He cherished an admiration for Irene, and
      wished to be on more playful terms with her.

      At half-past five the Park Lane footman came round to say: Mrs.
      Forsyte was very sorry, but one of the horses was coughing!

      Undaunted by this further blow, Winifred at once despatched
      little Publius (now aged seven) with the nursery governess to
      Montpellier Square.

      They would go down in hansoms and meet at the Crown and Sceptre
      at 7.45.

      Dartie, on being told, was pleased enough. It was better than
      going down with your back to the horses! He had no objection to
      driving down with Irene. He supposed they would pick up the
      others at Montpellier Square, and swop hansoms there?

      Informed that the meet was at the Crown and Sceptre, and that he
      would have to drive with his wife, he turned sulky, and said it
      was d—-d slow!

      At seven o’clock they started, Dartie offering to bet the driver
      half-a-crown he didn’t do it in the three-quarters of an hour.

      Twice only did husband and wife exchange remarks on the way.

      Dartie said: “It’ll put Master Soames’s nose out of joint to hear
      his wife’s been drivin’ in a hansom with Master Bosinney!”

      Winifred replied: “Don’t talk such nonsense, Monty!”

      “Nonsense!” repeated Dartie. “You don’t know women, my fine
      lady!”

      On the other occasion he merely asked: “How am I looking? A bit
      puffy about the gills? That fizz old George is so fond of is a
      windy wine!”

      He had been lunching with George Forsyte at the Haversnake.

      Bosinney and Irene had arrived before them. They were standing in
      one of the long French windows overlooking the river.

      Windows that summer were open all day long, and all night too,
      and day and night the scents of flowers and trees came in, the
      hot scent of parching grass, and the cool scent of the heavy
      dews.

      To the eye of the observant Dartie his two guests did not appear
      to be making much running, standing there close together, without
      a word. Bosinney was a hungry-looking creature—not much go about
      _him!_

      He left them to Winifred, however, and busied himself to order
      the dinner.

      A Forsyte will require good, if not delicate feeding, but a
      Dartie will tax the resources of a Crown and Sceptre. Living as
      he does, from hand to mouth, nothing is too good for him to eat;
      and he will eat it. His drink, too, will need to be carefully
      provided; there is much drink in this country “not good enough”
      for a Dartie; he will have the best. Paying for things
      vicariously, there is no reason why he should stint himself. To
      stint yourself is the mark of a fool, not of a Dartie.

      The best of everything! No sounder principle on which a man can
      base his life, whose father-in-law has a very considerable
      income, and a partiality for his grandchildren.

      With his not unable eye Dartie had spotted this weakness in James
      the very first year after little Publius’s arrival (an error); he
      had profited by his perspicacity. Four little Darties were now a
      sort of perpetual insurance.

      The feature of the feast was unquestionably the red mullet. This
      delectable fish, brought from a considerable distance in a state
      of almost perfect preservation, was first fried, then boned, then
      served in ice, with Madeira punch in place of sauce, according to
      a recipe known to a few men of the world.

      Nothing else calls for remark except the payment of the bill by
      Dartie.

      He had made himself extremely agreeable throughout the meal; his
      bold, admiring stare seldom abandoning Irene’s face and figure.
      As he was obliged to confess to himself, he got no change out of
      her—she was cool enough, as cool as her shoulders looked under
      their veil of creamy lace. He expected to have caught her out in
      some little game with Bosinney; but not a bit of it, she kept up
      her end remarkably well. As for that architect chap, he was as
      glum as a bear with a sore head—Winifred could barely get a word
      out of him; he ate nothing, but he certainly took his liquor, and
      his face kept getting whiter, and his eyes looked queer.

      It was all very amusing.

      For Dartie himself was in capital form, and talked freely, with a
      certain poignancy, being no fool. He told two or three stories
      verging on the improper, a concession to the company, for his
      stories were not used to verging. He proposed Irene’s health in a
      mock speech. Nobody drank it, and Winifred said: “Don’t be such a
      clown, Monty!”

      At her suggestion they went after dinner to the public terrace
      overlooking the river.

      “I should like to see the common people making love,” she said,
      “it’s such fun!”

      There were numbers of them walking in the cool, after the day’s
      heat, and the air was alive with the sound of voices, coarse and
      loud, or soft as though murmuring secrets.

      It was not long before Winifred’s better sense—she was the only
      Forsyte present—secured them an empty bench. They sat down in a
      row. A heavy tree spread a thick canopy above their heads, and
      the haze darkened slowly over the river.

      Dartie sat at the end, next to him Irene, then Bosinney, then
      Winifred. There was hardly room for four, and the man of the
      world could feel Irene’s arm crushed against his own; he knew
      that she could not withdraw it without seeming rude, and this
      amused him; he devised every now and again a movement that would
      bring her closer still. He thought: “That Buccaneer Johnny shan’t
      have it all to himself! It’s a pretty tight fit, certainly!”

      From far down below on the dark river came drifting the tinkle of
      a mandoline, and voices singing the old round:

      “A boat, a boat, unto the ferry,
      For we’ll go over and be merry;
      And laugh, and quaff, and drink brown sherry!”

      And suddenly the moon appeared, young and tender, floating up on
      her back from behind a tree; and as though she had breathed, the
      air was cooler, but down that cooler air came always the warm
      odour of the limes.

      Over his cigar Dartie peered round at Bosinney, who was sitting
      with his arms crossed, staring straight in front of him, and on
      his face the look of a man being tortured.

      And Dartie shot a glance at the face between, so veiled by the
      overhanging shadow that it was but like a darker piece of the
      darkness shaped and breathed on; soft, mysterious, enticing.

      A hush had fallen on the noisy terrace, as if all the strollers
      were thinking secrets too precious to be spoken.

      And Dartie thought: “Women!”

      The glow died above the river, the singing ceased; the young moon
      hid behind a tree, and all was dark. He pressed himself against
      Irene.

      He was not alarmed at the shuddering that ran through the limbs
      he touched, or at the troubled, scornful look of her eyes. He
      felt her trying to draw herself away, and smiled.

      It must be confessed that the man of the world had drunk quite as
      much as was good for him.

      With thick lips parted under his well-curled moustaches, and his
      bold eyes aslant upon her, he had the malicious look of a satyr.

      Along the pathway of sky between the hedges of the tree tops the
      stars clustered forth; like mortals beneath, they seemed to shift
      and swarm and whisper. Then on the terrace the buzz broke out
      once more, and Dartie thought: “Ah! he’s a poor, hungry-looking
      devil, that Bosinney!” and again he pressed himself against
      Irene.

      The movement deserved a better success. She rose, and they all
      followed her.

      The man of the world was more than ever determined to see what
      she was made of. Along the terrace he kept close at her elbow. He
      had within him much good wine. There was the long drive home, the
      long drive and the warm dark and the pleasant closeness of the
      hansom cab—with its insulation from the world devised by some
      great and good man. That hungry architect chap might drive with
      his wife—he wished him joy of her! And, conscious that his voice
      was not too steady, he was careful not to speak; but a smile had
      become fixed on his thick lips.

      They strolled along toward the cabs awaiting them at the farther
      end. His plan had the merit of all great plans, an almost brutal
      simplicity— he would merely keep at her elbow till she got in,
      and get in quickly after her.

      But when Irene reached the cab she did not get in; she slipped,
      instead, to the horse’s head. Dartie was not at the moment
      sufficiently master of his legs to follow. She stood stroking the
      horse’s nose, and, to his annoyance, Bosinney was at her side
      first. She turned and spoke to him rapidly, in a low voice; the
      words “That man” reached Dartie. He stood stubbornly by the cab
      step, waiting for her to come back. He knew a trick worth two of
      that!

      Here, in the lamp-light, his figure (no more than medium height),
      well squared in its white evening waistcoat, his light overcoat
      flung over his arm, a pink flower in his button-hole, and on his
      dark face that look of confident, good-humoured insolence, he was
      at his best—a thorough man of the world.

      Winifred was already in her cab. Dartie reflected that Bosinney
      would have a poorish time in that cab if he didn’t look sharp!
      Suddenly he received a push which nearly overturned him in the
      road. Bosinney’s voice hissed in his ear: “I am taking Irene
      back; do you understand?” He saw a face white with passion, and
      eyes that glared at him like a wild cat’s.

      “Eh?” he stammered. “What? Not a bit. You take my wife!”

      “Get away!” hissed Bosinney—“or I’ll throw you into the road!”

      Dartie recoiled; he saw as plainly as possible that the fellow
      meant it. In the space he made Irene had slipped by, her dress
      brushed his legs. Bosinney stepped in after her.

      “Go on!” he heard the Buccaneer cry. The cabman flicked his
      horse. It sprang forward.

      Dartie stood for a moment dumbfounded; then, dashing at the cab
      where his wife sat, he scrambled in.

      “Drive on!” he shouted to the driver, “and don’t you lose sight
      of that fellow in front!”

      Seated by his wife’s side, he burst into imprecations. Calming
      himself at last with a supreme effort, he added: “A pretty mess
      you’ve made of it, to let the Buccaneer drive home with her; why
      on earth couldn’t you keep hold of him? He’s mad with love; any
      fool can see that!”

      He drowned Winifred’s rejoinder with fresh calls to the Almighty;
      nor was it until they reached Barnes that he ceased a Jeremiad,
      in the course of which he had abused her, her father, her
      brother, Irene, Bosinney, the name of Forsyte, his own children,
      and cursed the day when he had ever married.

      Winifred, a woman of strong character, let him have his say, at
      the end of which he lapsed into sulky silence. His angry eyes
      never deserted the back of that cab, which, like a lost chance,
      haunted the darkness in front of him.

      Fortunately he could not hear Bosinney’s passionate pleading—that
      pleading which the man of the world’s conduct had let loose like
      a flood; he could not see Irene shivering, as though some garment
      had been torn from her, nor her eyes, black and mournful, like
      the eyes of a beaten child. He could not hear Bosinney
      entreating, entreating, always entreating; could not hear her
      sudden, soft weeping, nor see that poor, hungry-looking devil,
      awed and trembling, humbly touching her hand.

      In Montpellier Square their cabman, following his instructions to
      the letter, faithfully drew up behind the cab in front. The
      Darties saw Bosinney spring out, and Irene follow, and hasten up
      the steps with bent head. She evidently had her key in her hand,
      for she disappeared at once. It was impossible to tell whether
      she had turned to speak to Bosinney.

      The latter came walking past their cab; both husband and wife had
      an admirable view of his face in the light of a street lamp. It
      was working with violent emotion.

      “Good-night, Mr. Bosinney!” called Winifred.

      Bosinney started, clawed off his hat, and hurried on. He had
      obviously forgotten their existence.

      “There!” said Dartie, “did you see the beast’s face? What did I
      say? Fine games!” He improved the occasion.

      There had so clearly been a crisis in the cab that Winifred was
      unable to defend her theory.

      She said: “I shall say nothing about it. I don’t see any use in
      making a fuss!”

      With that view Dartie at once concurred; looking upon James as a
      private preserve, he disapproved of his being disturbed by the
      troubles of others.

      “Quite right,” he said; “let Soames look after himself. He’s
      jolly well able to!”

      Thus speaking, the Darties entered their habitat in Green Street,
      the rent of which was paid by James, and sought a well-earned
      rest. The hour was midnight, and no Forsytes remained abroad in
      the streets to spy out Bosinney’s wanderings; to see him return
      and stand against the rails of the Square garden, back from the
      glow of the street lamp; to see him stand there in the shadow of
      trees, watching the house where in the dark was hidden she whom
      he would have given the world to see for a single minute—she who
      was now to him the breath of the lime-trees, the meaning of the
      light and the darkness, the very beating of his own heart.




      CHAPTER X DIAGNOSIS OF A FORSYTE

      It is in the nature of a Forsyte to be ignorant that he is a
      Forsyte; but young Jolyon was well aware of being one. He had not
      known it till after the decisive step which had made him an
      outcast; since then the knowledge had been with him continually.
      He felt it throughout his alliance, throughout all his dealings
      with his second wife, who was emphatically not a Forsyte.

      He knew that if he had not possessed in great measure the eye for
      what he wanted, the tenacity to hold on to it, the sense of the
      folly of wasting that for which he had given so big a price—in
      other words, the “sense of property” he could never have retained
      her (perhaps never would have desired to retain her) with him
      through all the financial troubles, slights, and misconstructions
      of those fifteen years; never have induced her to marry him on
      the death of his first wife; never have lived it all through, and
      come up, as it were, thin, but smiling.

      He was one of those men who, seated cross-legged like miniature
      Chinese idols in the cages of their own hearts, are ever smiling
      at themselves a doubting smile. Not that this smile, so intimate
      and eternal, interfered with his actions, which, like his chin
      and his temperament, were quite a peculiar blend of softness and
      determination.

      He was conscious, too, of being a Forsyte in his work, that
      painting of water-colours to which he devoted so much energy,
      always with an eye on himself, as though he could not take so
      unpractical a pursuit quite seriously, and always with a certain
      queer uneasiness that he did not make more money at it.

      It was, then, this consciousness of what it meant to be a
      Forsyte, that made him receive the following letter from old
      Jolyon, with a mixture of sympathy and disgust:

      “SHELDRAKE HOUSE,
      “BROADSTAIRS,
      “_July_ 1.

      “MY DEAR JO,”
          (The Dad’s handwriting had altered very little in the thirty
          odd years that he remembered it.)
          “We have been here now a fortnight, and have had good weather
          on the whole. The air is bracing, but my liver is out of
          order, and I shall be glad enough to get back to town. I
          cannot say much for June, her health and spirits are very
          indifferent, and I don’t see what is to come of it. She says
          nothing, but it is clear that she is harping on this
          engagement, which is an engagement and no engagement,
          and—goodness knows what. I have grave doubts whether she
          ought to be allowed to return to London in the present state
          of affairs, but she is so self-willed that she might take it
          into her head to come up at any moment. The fact is someone
          ought to speak to Bosinney and ascertain what he means. I’m
          afraid of this myself, for I should certainly rap him over
          the knuckles, but I thought that you, knowing him at the
          Club, might put in a word, and get to ascertain what the
          fellow is about. You will of course in no way commit June. I
          shall be glad to hear from you in the course of a few days
          whether you have succeeded in gaining any information. The
          situation is very distressing to me, I worry about it at
          night. With my love to Jolly and Holly.

      “I am,
      “Your affect. father,
      “JOLYON FORSYTE.”

      Young Jolyon pondered this letter so long and seriously that his
      wife noticed his preoccupation, and asked him what was the
      matter. He replied: “Nothing.”

      It was a fixed principle with him never to allude to June. She
      might take alarm, he did not know what she might think; he
      hastened, therefore, to banish from his manner all traces of
      absorption, but in this he was about as successful as his father
      would have been, for he had inherited all old Jolyon’s
      transparency in matters of domestic finesse; and young Mrs.
      Jolyon, busying herself over the affairs of the house, went about
      with tightened lips, stealing at him unfathomable looks.

      He started for the Club in the afternoon with the letter in his
      pocket, and without having made up his mind.

      To sound a man as to “his intentions” was peculiarly unpleasant
      to him; nor did his own anomalous position diminish this
      unpleasantness. It was so like his family, so like all the people
      they knew and mixed with, to enforce what they called their
      rights over a man, to bring him up to the mark; so like them to
      carry their business principles into their private relations.

      And how that phrase in the letter—“You will, of course, in no way
      commit June”—gave the whole thing away.

      Yet the letter, with the personal grievance, the concern for
      June, the “rap over the knuckles,” was all so natural. No wonder
      his father wanted to know what Bosinney meant, no wonder he was
      angry.

      It was difficult to refuse! But why give the thing to him to do?
      That was surely quite unbecoming; but so long as a Forsyte got
      what he was after, he was not too particular about the means,
      provided appearances were saved.

      How should he set about it, or how refuse? Both seemed
      impossible. So, young Jolyon!

      He arrived at the Club at three o’clock, and the first person he
      saw was Bosinney himself, seated in a corner, staring out of the
      window.

      Young Jolyon sat down not far off, and began nervously to
      reconsider his position. He looked covertly at Bosinney sitting
      there unconscious. He did not know him very well, and studied him
      attentively for perhaps the first time; an unusual looking man,
      unlike in dress, face, and manner to most of the other members of
      the Club—young Jolyon himself, however different he had become in
      mood and temper, had always retained the neat reticence of
      Forsyte appearance. He alone among Forsytes was ignorant of
      Bosinney’s nickname. The man was unusual, not eccentric, but
      unusual; he looked worn, too, haggard, hollow in the cheeks
      beneath those broad, high cheekbones, though without any
      appearance of ill-health, for he was strongly built, with curly
      hair that seemed to show all the vitality of a fine constitution.

      Something in his face and attitude touched young Jolyon. He knew
      what suffering was like, and this man looked as if he were
      suffering.

      He got up and touched his arm.

      Bosinney started, but exhibited no sign of embarrassment on
      seeing who it was.

      Young Jolyon sat down.

      “I haven’t seen you for a long time,” he said. “How are you
      getting on with my cousin’s house?”

      “It’ll be finished in about a week.”

      “I congratulate you!”
